ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.40 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on document XVI, No 2. I call the rapporteur, Senator Urraro.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, first of all I would like to thank the members of the Election Board, the Offices for a particularly sensitive case, a legal unicum because it was the first application of electoral law in that territory. In the Region of Sicily a seat was not assigned, due to the exhaustion of the candidates submitted by the Movimento 5 Stars in the lists of multi-name colleges compared to the seats assigned to the list Movimento 5 Stars in the Region; at the same time all candidates belonging to the Movimento 5 Stars were elected in the single-name colleges of the same Region. The minutes of the regional electoral office show, in fact, the non-assignment due to insufficient candidates for the Movimento 5 Star list of a seat in multi-annual college n. 2. In the same minutes there are some observations: the list Movimento 5 Stars, based on the electoral result, has four seats in the multi-named college Sicily 2. Although the list of the Movimento 5 Stars refers to four candidates, the candidate Nunzia Catalfo was also elected in the Sicilia uninomional college and, pursuant to the combined provisions of Articles 17 -bis, paragraph 3, of Legislative Decree No. 533 of 1993 and 85, paragraph 1- bis, of the decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957, the senator elected in a single-name college and in one or more multi-nominal colleges is considered elected in the one-nominal college. Pursuant to the combined provisions of article 17- bis, paragraph 2, of the aforementioned legislative decree n. 533 of 1993 and article 84 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 361 of 1957, the regional electoral office notes in the same report that, having verified the exhaustion of the number of candidates presented from the list Movimento 5 Stars in the multi-nominational college Sicily 2 and the consequent impossibility of assigning all the seats to the same, it should be provided in the order: pursuant to article 84, paragraph 2, of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 361 of 1957 to assign the seat to the list of the other plurinomial colleges of the same Region in which the same list has the most decimal part of the quotient not used, proceeding according to the descending order. The electoral office notes in this regard that this allocation is not practicable in the present case since the Movimento 5 Star list has no candidates unelected results in the other multi-annual college of the Region, the College of Sicily 1. Alternatively, pursuant to Article 84 (3) of the Decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957, a candidate on the same list should be assigned to the unappointed unelected colleges, according to the ranking set out in Article 77. But - observes the same electoral office - such assignment is not practicable in the case here since the list Movimento 5 Stars has no candidates results not elected in any of the single colleges of the Region. In accordance with Article 84 of the aforementioned decree, the seat should be assigned, within the original multi-annual college, to the list forming part of the same coalition of the deficit list which has the most decimal part of the quotient not used, proceeding in descending order. However, as noted in the minutes of the electoral office, this allocation is not feasible in this case, as the Movimento 5 Star list does not appear to be part of any coalition. The electoral office has therefore concluded that none of the operations provided for in Article 84 of the aforementioned decree allows to reach the assignment of the seat to be attributed to the shortlist Movimento 5 Stars. Not even the application of the combined provisions of Articles 19 of Legislative Decree No. 533 of 1993 and 86, paragraph 1, of the decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957 allows, in the opinion of the same electoral office, to the assignment of the seat in question, not being found any candidate of the list Movimento 5 Stars not turned out elected. The electoral office then assessed, for the possible allocation of the vacant seat, the different option of using the allocation mechanism provided for in Article 19 of Legislative Decree No. 533 of 1993, which refers in turn to Article 86 of the decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957, in the part where it appears to recall Article 84 of the decree of the President of the Republic No. 361, whose application is expressly excluded from Article 17-a, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree No. 533 of 1993. In this respect, the electoral office notes that the reading of the discipline referred to in the above articles shows, however, that the combined provisions of the articles are intended to apply only after the proclamation made by the regional electoral office pursuant to Article 18 of the aforementioned legislative decree No 533 of 1993, assuming that, after the completion of all electoral operations, the seat remains vacant for any cause, even if it has occurred. In any event, the regional electoral office notes that it is for the Executive of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to have exclusive jurisdiction in relation to the resolution of disputes concerning the allocation of vacant seats. On the question of the non-assignment of the seat in the Region of Sicily, four appeals were submitted to the Council. On the question of the seat a wide and in-depth debate has developed in several meetings of the Junta during which, in full respect of all the assessments expressed by the various political forces, various thesis has been discussed in order to find a solution to a problem that directly involves, in an unprecedented way, the composition of the Senate. The determinations that the Junta of the elections was called upon to assume, in compliance with the prerogatives attributed to it by Article 66 of the Constitution, required a difficult balance between three distinct constitutional principles, namely that of the safeguarding of the plenum of the Senate (Article 57, second paragraph), that pertaining to the election on a regional basis of the same (Article 57, first paragraph), and finally that relating to the respect of the popular will, which constitutes a corollary of the democratic principle referred to in Article 1 of the Constitution. It must therefore be noted in advance that the comparison in the Junta has always been marked by maximum respect for all the guidelines on the subject of merit and has been enriched by arguments and analyses of undoubted technical and legal value. At the sitting of 20 November 2018, at the end of this first phase of examination, as rapporteur, I considered it necessary to draw attention to some basic principles, after carrying out a detailed examination, with specific reference to the issue of vacant seats in the Chamber of Deputies in the XIV legislature, to the reference rules on alternate candidates and to the historical framework of the rules of electoral systems concerning the allocation of vacant seats to other lists. At this stage it was noted that the current electoral system has revealed a regulatory gap. In order to fill this legal vacuum and to prevent an insoluble problem from becoming inexorably a problem of constitutional legitimacy of the law, it was necessary to consider the use of the instruments provided for this purpose by the law, namely, first, the analogue interpretation, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 12 of the pre-laws. From this point of view, it was therefore necessary to ask whether the electoral legislation did not contain any provisions governing similar cases or similar matters and, in the absence of them, how the interpretative problem could be resolved in accordance with the general principles of the legal order of the State, without prejudice to compliance with the limits to the analogue interpretation laid down in Article 14 of the pre-laws (and therefore excluding the relevance in the case of the criminal law limit, checking whether there are provisions which are exceptions to general rules or other laws). In this regard, it has been noted that there are certain provisions in electoral legislation which provide for a mechanism aimed at filling any gaps in the electoral lists. These are in particular the provisions of Articles 18-a and 22 of the Single Text of the Laws for the election of the Chamber of Deputies, to which the Single Text of the Laws for the election of the Senate refers (see in general Article 27 of the Senate and, in particular, Article 9). Article 18- bis of the Single Text of the Laws for the Election of the Chamber of Deputies, paragraph 3- bis states that in each multi-annual college each list, at the time of submission, is composed of a list of candidates submitted in a numerical order not less than two and not more than four and that the list is annexed a list of four alternate candidates, two male and two female. Article 22 provides for the use of alternate candidates either in the event of a void being established on the list, as a result of the waiver by a candidate, or in the event that such a void is determined by the non-compliance with the provisions governing gender proportions and alternations. It has therefore appeared reasonable, at this stage, to suggest that the lack of legislation, which emerged at the time when it was not possible to assign a seat to the Movimento 5 Stars which would be held on the basis of the electoral votes expressed, could be filled on the basis of the provisions of the aforementioned second paragraph of Article 12 of the preleggi, using the provisions of Article 22, with the consequent proposal to assign the seat remaining vacant to the alternate candidate, belonging to the Movimento 5 Stars list, in possession of the requirements of the electoral law. As was inevitable, this proposal further fueled the discussion, which had been discussed by the members of the Junta, in particular at the meetings of 27 November and 11 December 2018. During the debate during the following sessions, the arguments were raised concerning the allocation of the vacancy seat, which were alternatives to the proposal made. Since this is a matter of considerable importance and unprecedented for the Senate, it was considered necessary to reflect on all the theses so configured, carrying out further in-depth studies, which eventually led me to reformulate the proposal initially proposed. In particular, it should be stressed that the safeguarding of the elector's civic duty, when exercising the prerogatives provided for in Article 48 of the Constitution, is incompressible and politics has a duty to stop, even if there is a hypothetical danger that it may be slightly weakened. Careful studies and many further studies, together with listening to the positions of the legitimate arguments of the colleagues of the Junta, have therefore pushed the rapporteur to reason if the thesis of the so-called substitute candidate could represent a conscious vote, on the part of those who are called to perform a civic duty, in relation to the knowledge of the candidate. The lack of support for the personal indication of citizens towards a non-registered person on the electoral roll could harm the logic of representation given in the Constitution, as explicitly stated in Constitutional Court judgment No 1 of 2014 and, for these reasons, it was decided to supersede the conclusions previously set out. In fact, the forecast of the lists of alternate candidates, although intended to fill any gaps in the electoral lists when verifying their regularity, takes place before the elections in time to allow the elector to know in advance the actual members of the lists present in his college. After the election lists have been published, instead, the lists of alternates lose all functions and the persons registered there do not take part in the elections. These are the reasons why the rapporteur has drawn up a further final proposal compared to the one outlined above. The proposed solution would lead to the assignment of the vacant seat to a candidate on the Movimento 5 Star list not elected in other districts. This option seems to be the most consistent with the literal and systematic interpretation of Senate electoral law. In fact, if, on the one hand, Article 17-bis of Legislative Decree No. 533 of 1993 refers to the criteria provided for in Article 84 of the Decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957, with the exception of the provisions of paragraphs 4, 6 and 7, on the other hand, Article 19 admits that the seats are assigned also according to the procedures referred to in Article 84, paragraph 4. Article 19, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree No. 533 of 1993 states that in the event that it remains vacant for any cause, even if it has occurred, a seat in a plurinomial college, Article 86 of the single text of the laws laying down rules for the election of the Chamber of Deputies, referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957, applies. The latter provision, in turn, in the event that a list has already exhausted its candidates, refers to the procedures laid down in Article 84. Due to the double referral made by Article 19 of Legislative Decree No. 533 of 1993, to Article 86 of the Decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957, and from this to Article 84, the application of Article 84, paragraph 4, to the election of the Senate seems therefore re-admitted, despite the exclusion ordered at first instance by the referral referred to in Article 17 -bis. In this respect, it should be clarified first of all that Article 17-bis and Article 19 do not contradict each other, since the two articles have different aims and fields of application. Article 17-bis identifies the criteria for allocating seats to the lists on the basis of the results of the division carried out in accordance with Article 17. It therefore identifies the ordinary arrangements by which seats must be allocated. Article 19 is a closing rule aimed at preventing a seat from remaining vacant for any cause, even if it has occurred. To this end, it shall identify certain criteria applicable in a residual manner, where it has not been possible to allocate all seats in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 17-bis. This rule, therefore, achieves a balance between the constitutional principles guaranteed by Article 57 of our Charter, the formation of the plenary assembly and the election of the Senators taking place on a regional basis. This balance in fact results in a reversal of the order of the criteria for the allocation of seats; so that, for the Senate elections, the criterion provided for in Article 84 is applied only in the last instance, when, according to the criteria referred to in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5, referred to in Article 17-a, it is not possible to assign all seats within the constituency. The impossibility of assigning all seats, in accordance with ordinary procedures, activates the normative postponement to Article 84 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 361 of 1957, intended as a closing rule, whose application therefore appears oriented to the need to achieve the completeness of the body and limited to what is necessary to achieve this result. Therefore, in view of the literal content of Article 19 of Legislative Decree No. 533 of 1993, in the present case, the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities should come to the conclusion that Article 84 of the Decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957 should apply for the allocation of the vacant seat, as happened. In conclusion, the combined provisions of Articles 17-a and 19 of Legislative Decree No. 533 of 1993, it appears that, if a list has exhausted the number of candidates submitted in a plurinomial college and it is therefore not possible to assign all the seats to it in that college, it is carried out in the following ways: first, the seats are assigned to the list in the other multinomial colleges of the same district in which it has brought the highest remains, proceeding in descending order (Article 84, paragraph 2, of the decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957); if the results of these operations still remain seats to be assigned, these are attributed to the candidates of the list not elected in the single assemblies of the original plurinomial college or, failing that, of the division (Article 84, paragraph 3, of the decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957). In cases where such operations do not permit the allocation of all seats, they shall be assigned to the list forming part of the same coalition of the deficit which has carried the highest remains within the original plurinomial college or, failing that, in the district; if, at the end of the operations referred to in the preceding points, seats still remain to be assigned to the list, the division in which the list has the most decimal part of the unused quotient (Article 84, paragraph 4, of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 361 of 1957) shall be identified. This, ultimately, is the criterion that is proposed to adopt, since the other possibilities indicated above are not applicable in the case at hand, since the list Movimento 5 Stars has no candidates results not elected in the other multi-annual college of the Region, the College of Sicily 1, that the same list does not even have candidates results not elected in the one-name colleges of the Region and that moreover it does not appear to be part of a coalition. The seats are then assigned to the list in the multi-annual college of that constituency where the list has the most decimal part of the quotient not used, proceeding in descending order. If, at the end of this operation, seats still remain to be assigned to the list, they shall be assigned to it in the other plurinomial colleges of the same constituency where the list has the most decimal part of the quotient already used, proceeding in descending order. This final proposal, presented at the meeting of the Junta on 26 June 2019, was then approved by 12 votes to 10. Consequently, the electoral appeals submitted by the candidate Bruno Alicata, the candidate Esterina Bonafede and the candidate Antonino Scilla are to be rejected and the electoral appeal submitted by the citizen Mauro Lorenzo Mariotti, which has wrongly and without any valid motivation a different regional division for the allocation of the seat not assigned in the Region of Sicily, must be considered unfounded. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u6	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Malan.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u7	Mr President, I could sum up my entire speech - which will be brief anyway - by saying that in Sicily the Movimento 5 Stars, according to the law, could present 17 candidates, but he presented 16 of them: it is therefore difficult to ask to have 17 elected, this is the summary. Going further in detail, the Movimento 5 Stars, as I said, could have presented 17 candidates, covering all the one-name colleges, which then won, covering with other candidates the lists of multi-name colleges for the allocation of seats in proportional place. However, he has applied for one person in both instances, therefore the candidates from 17 have dropped to 16. It seems to me that the speech should already be concluded: we cannot have more elected than the candidates, because the consequences would be really extravagant in other types of elections that I will then say something about. I would say that this is a principle of reality that goes beyond the law, because it is a kind of pre-law: it is obvious that one cannot have an elected person who has not been nominated. Going to constitutional principles, article 57, first paragraph of the Constitution, says that the Senate is elected on a regional basis: consequently, those who run for office in Sicily can be elected or not there and those who run for office in Umbria can be elected or not there, it seems quite obvious to me. The election of the twenty-fifth Senator of Sicily in Umbria is in clear contrast to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution. This, however, is only the first profile of blatant inconstitutionality. The fourth paragraph of Article 57 states with detail and precision how seats are assigned to all regions. There are some Regions, including Molise and Valle d'Aosta with a fixed number of senators, for the others there is a calculation that provides for a minimum of seven senators and for the Regions that are above the minimum, there is a allocation strictly proportional to the number of inhabitants. To think now that due to a shortage of candidates - a deliberate shortage, please note - we are going to break this balance, it seems to me almost more serious than breaking the principle of the first paragraph of Article 57. In fact, we do not understand how it is possible to claim that Umbria must touch eight senators. Umbria is a beautiful region, which represents a lot for our country, which does not mean that it has a number of inhabitants to which the Constitution plans to assign seven senators. I would like to understand why the 882,000 inhabitants of Umbria should have eight senators, while the inhabitants of Abruzzo, who amount to 1,311,000, should have seven. Not only is it not sensible, but it is seriously detrimental to that balance of representation of the Regions established by the Constitution, not by some additional paragraph or commentary of the electoral law. In this way we would create not only an imbalance for the regions of Sicily and Umbria, but also at national level. This applies in particular to the issue of Umbria; then there is the question of Sicily. If the Constitution assigns 25 seats to that region, it must have 25 seats. Since someone, who had such numbers as would have allowed the election of 17 senators at the outcome of the vote, presented 16 candidates, it is not possible to penalise the entire Region because the Senate representation is elected on a regional basis, as laid down in Article 57 of the Constitution. The only principle that attempts to support the reasoning that the twenty-fifth Senator of Sicily is, in reality, the eighth Senator that the Constitution does not assign to Umbria is the abstract reference to Article 1 of the Constitution, where it is said that sovereignty belongs to the people. However, the article does not end there, because otherwise we would have a vague and susceptible statement of any interpretation, but it goes on to say that it exercises it in the forms and limits of the Constitution. Otherwise we won't know how to apply it. The principle for which there are 16 candidates, must be given 17 elected to respect the will of the people, at the cost of finding them elsewhere, applied to other elections would have results not more paradoxical, but just as paradoxical because already this is. I have listened to the excellent rapporteur whose calmness, fairness and great attention he has studied the problem with. He said, however, that there are no similarities in other electoral laws. It's not true they're not here. At regional and municipal level, since the Provinces have been taken from the famous sovereignty of the people, there is the possibility, specifically explained in their electoral laws, of presenting fewer candidates than the total number of regional or municipal councillors to be elected. It is possible and allowed, there is still a minimum, but it may happen that that party and that list have more seats than the candidates who have been presented. For example, if a party in Piedmont presents an incomplete list, which does not have all the candidates to the Regional Council to which it would be entitled and then has such an extraordinary result at the level of elections that it is entitled to even more candidates, what do we do? Since a certain list had an extra seat in Piedmont, should we visit one in Puglia? Let's go and elect an extra regional councillor in Puglia, since in Piedmont he hasn't submitted enough candidates? The same is true of the municipalities, where - I am talking about municipalities with more than 15,000 inhabitants - incomplete lists can be presented. Again, it may happen that a party obtains such a consensus that it can have a number of elected members in the City Council higher than the number of candidates. What do we do? Do we take the other councilors to another municipality? It would be the same thing, just as paradoxical and not respectful of popular sovereignty. In fact, the Umbrians who voted in favour of the 5 Star Movement voted for the Umbrian senators. The Constitution forbids the Umbrians to decide who is elected in Sicily, as well as forbids the candidate of a gentleman in Sicily who has been nominated in Umbria. We are faced with a situation that no one expected, starting with the Movimento 5 Stars, that did not present a sufficient number of candidates. We must take note of this. I illustrate our thesis about who should be the twenty-fifth senator of Sicily. Given that the Movimento 5 Stars has exhausted the candidates and that it is not in coalition (so you can not find other candidates among the Allied parties), the remaining seat must be assigned to the party with the remaining major remaining that - I would say about any other party - happens to be Forza Italia. If there are to be 25 senators in Sicily - and the Constitution prescribes this - in the absence of candidates of the party that has had more votes, the seat must be attributed to the party with the highest rest to which no seats have been assigned.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u8	I inform you that at 10.30 a.m. the Board for the Rules of Procedure will be convened and at 10.45 a.m. the Conference of the Leaders will be convened.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u9	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Grasso.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my congratulations to the Movimento 5 Stars for having achieved, a year and a half ago, a success even greater than their expectations and forecasts of the electoral law itself, since they have presented fewer candidates than the number of seats; a consensus lost, however, at the same high speed (I do not use a random term) with which it was conquered. From Pirro's victories to zero victories, to say it with your new expressions, which give an unprecedented sense to both grammar and arithmetic. The issue we are discussing here is very simple in its description. Having the Movimento 5 Stars used, as required by law, multi-candidate seats in the single and multi-named seats, the case has occurred that in the college of the Senate Sicily 2 one of the four seats assigned (that of my colleague Catalfo, elected at the same time in the university of Sicily 08) has remained unallocated, because all the others of the list have become our esteemed colleagues senators. I shall deal briefly with the first two of the four possible solutions, those which I do not think can be crossed for such obvious reasons that they do not deserve a particular deepening. The first is to draw on the list of alternate candidates on the list. It is well known to all that the role of alternates is aimed at verifying the regularity of the list before the elections and in good time to enable the voter to know in advance the actual components of the lists in his college. After the publication of the electoral lists, instead, the lists of alternates lose every function and the persons who are registered there cannot be elected, otherwise the connection between elected and voters would fall. The second solution proposed, the one just illustrated by Senator Malan, seems equally unavoidable. It consists of assigning the seat to a list other than the Movimento 5 Stars, but this does not seem acceptable to me, existing the democratic principle of Article 1 of the Constitution and the principle of equality of the vote of the second paragraph of Article 48 of the Constitution. It is clear that such a method would correspond to a violation of the will of the voters who had contributed to the seat allocation to the deficit list; and in this field no analogy is permitted, as the Constitutional Court has often stated. The third hypothesis, adopted by majority by the Junta, is to assign the vacant seat to an unelected candidate of a list of the Movimento 5 Stars from a constituency other than Sicily. Solution - as we have said - in clear and evident contrast with the precise and indispensable constitutional dictation of the election of the Senate on a regional basis (Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Constitution), as well as with the literal and systematic interpretation of the electoral law of the Senate. There are two firm points in the Constitution regarding the Senate: its regional election and the number of senators, introduced by Constitutional Law No. 2 of 1963. It is therefore necessary to determine whether the achievement of the completeness of the plenum of 315 senators can justify the sacrifice of the requirement to maintain the connection between the seat to be assigned and the district of origin (principle laid down in the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution). Given the limited time available and the difficulty in following a reasoning made of rules and cross-references, without having the rules before me, I refer for technical details to what has been written, deposited and distributed to my fellow senators in my minority report. It is sufficient to point out, however, that the rules exclude certain provisions valid for the House, that is, the possibility of drawing on other districts, precisely in compliance with the limit of the regional election. This cannot lead us to consider, by analogy, that rule of closure invoked in the majority report, provided for by the Chamber of Deputies alone, not even due to the double reference to Article 84 (4) of the decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957: a double mortal jump, which violates the constitutional norm. The only solution in line with the Constitution and with the precedents of this Assembly is not to assign the seat for the entire legislature, without this implying any vulnus, because the Senate can decide validly even with numbers less than the plenum of 315, prescribed by article 57, second paragraph, of the Constitution. Moreover, in the past - there are several examples mentioned in my report - the Chamber Councils and the Senate noted that this was the solution when it was impossible to identify, in the electoral law then in force, a criterion useful to assign vacant seats. For this reason it was decided on several occasions not to assign one or more seats, all the more so because in our hypothesis the decrease of only one senator from 315 to 314 would not even involve a shift in the absolute majority, which in any case would remain fixed in 161, considered also the senators for life. The current electoral law clearly has flaws and Parliament will have to remedy them. On the other hand, it will be remembered that this law, the so-called Rosatellum, had a path not quite widely shared. The government then put the question of trust in it, expropriating the Parliament of its prerogative and not allowing even the general discussion in the Senate, a choice which, as is well known, I strongly stigmatized as President of the Senate. The choice between the principle of the regional election of the Senate and the number of 315 senators cannot lead us to correct the electoral results, an act which the Constitutional Court (judgment No 44 of 1961) considers to be of undeniable gravity because it leads to assigning some seats to people other than those to whom they would have belonged or even, as in this case, to totally different districts. It was stated by the Constitutional Court itself that no application of the rules by analogy is permitted in this case. Therefore, in view of the impossibility of identifying a criterion adequately shared in its legal basis, that is to say that it is a principle generally incontrovertible from the point of view of law, and found the legitimacy from the constitutional point of view of the fact that the composition of the Senate can be, as happened, less than the plenum provided for in the aforementioned article 57, second paragraph of the Constitution; finally, it has been noted that the conditions for assigning the seat of the multi-member college "Sicilia-02" to a senator elected in other constituency than Sicily do not exist, the only solution to the failure to assign the Sicilian seat consists, precisely, in not assigning it and therefore in making it remain vacant for the rest of the XVIII Legislature. This is my proposal, which is also on the agenda that I refer to. In conclusion, this Assembly cannot, for the will of the Movimento 5 Stars to have an extra senator (they who boast to "cut out the armchairs") and with the condescendence of the League - for the continuous and daily barter in that souk in which they have transformed the Government - vote a decision that clearly goes against the Constitution. Already too many abuses of democracy you have consumed in these months of government, already too many times, now one hour, you have bowed your head and voted the indefensible and the unvotable: spare, I ask you as a citizen, as a senator, as a former President of this institution, the choice of the elected " à la carte" as we were at the restaurant. The votes of the Sicilian citizens cannot go to those who were candidates for the Senate in Umbria, says the Constitution. It would be ridiculous if it weren't very serious. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u11	I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 10.29 a.m. and resumed at 11.30 a.m.) I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Cucca.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the case we are dealing with, which concerns the Region of Sicily, is the result of the broad electoral success achieved by the Movimento 5 Stars in the Region in the elections of 4 March 2018. As a matter of fact, the result so striking allowed to achieve about half of the votes on the island and to win about two thirds of the seats that were at stake between the House and the Senate. The presence of short multilingual lists and the possibility of multiple candidates, however, has determined the incapience of the lists of candidates of the Movimento 5 Stars in Sicily, which did not have enough candidates to cover all the seats that could have been achieved for the striking result of which I have just spoken. In the Chamber of Deputies, where the seats to be allocated outside the constituency were 3, the question was easily resolved, because the counting and allocation of seats are made at national level and consequently, pursuant to Article 84 (4) of the single text of the laws for the election of the Chamber of Deputies, the division in which the list has the most decimal part of the non-used quotient and the allocation of vacant seats is made. At the Senate, the reasoning is totally different, because different are the law and constitutional norms that govern the election of the members of the Senate itself. To the Senate there is still today a seat not assignable to the Movimento 5 Stars within the Region and still vacant. However, the solution that has been proposed, similar to that adopted for the House of Deputies, cannot be adopted for the following reasons. Article 57, first paragraph, of the Constitution - this is the key principle and the lighthouse that must guide this path - states that the Senate must be elected on a regional basis. It would, therefore, be unconstitutional an electoral law for the Senate that would assign the seats won by a list in a regional constituency to candidates on the same list presented in a different region. The constitutional principle of the elected Senate on a regional basis determines, in fact, the identification of the Region as an electoral constituency in which the seats to each assigned, according to the allocation criteria specifically provided for in paragraphs third and fourth of the same Article 57 of the Constitution, must be in the same Region entirely awarded. This means that you cannot resort to other people who have been candidates in different regions. Article 1 of Legislative Decree No 533 of 20 December 1993 governing the electoral system of the Senate also states that, in line with the constitutional dictation, the Senate of the Republic is elected on a regional basis. And exclusively on a regional basis can also be elected in the light of the new legislation. Article 17- bis, paragraph 2, of the Senate's electoral law expressly excludes that it may apply to cases where a list has exhausted the number of candidates submitted in a plurinomial college for the Senate the discipline provided for in Article 84, paragraph 4 of the electoral law of the Chamber of Deputies (i.e. Article 17- bis expressly excludes the applicability to the Senate of paragraph 4 of Article 84 of the electoral law of the Chamber of Deputies), which would allow instead to assign seats not assigned to candidates on the same list in other regional districts. If the rule in force for the Chamber were to apply, it would result in the allocation to another Region of the senatorial seat of the Region of Sicily, clearly violating the distribution of seats between the different Regions carried out pursuant to article 57, paragraph 4, of the Constitution. The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys, at the end of a long investigation... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u13	Excuse me, Senator Cucca. Can I ask the House to moderate the buzz? Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u14	CUCCA, minority rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President. The Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, at the end of an extremely long investigation, lasting nine months, decided by a majority to propose to the Assembly the award of the seat rendered vacant to the Senate, due to the lack of candidates of the list of the Movimento 5 Stars in the multi-annual college Sicily 2, to an unelected candidate of the Movimento 5 Stars in another regional constituency. As an "alternate" district, Umbria was identified, where the candidate obtained the largest decimal part of the unused quotient. To try to remedy the express prohibition contained in article 17- bis of the electoral law - of which I have spoken previously - insurmountable in itself, the proposal approved by the Junta relies on the following article 19, paragraph 2, of the single text of the laws for the election of the Senate, according to which, if it remains vacant for any cause, even if it has occurred, a seat in a plurinomial college applies Article 86 of the single text of the laws with rules for the report of the Chamber of Deputies, which, in turn, for the case in which the list has already exhausted its candidates, refers to the modalities referred to in articles 84, paragraphs 2, 3, 5 and (for the precise) 4. This reckless and clumsy interpretation of the Senate's electoral law, the result of a "double postponement" (from Article 19 of the single text of the laws governing the election of the Senate of the Republic to Article 86 of the single text of the laws governing the election of the Chamber of Deputies and, from this, to the previous Article 84, paragraph 4), is manifestly unfounded. It is based on the assumption that the Senate's electoral law contains in its text two norms in contradiction with each other: Article 17- bis, which prohibits the referral to the law of the Chamber, and therefore the allocation of supernumerary senatorial seats in another regional district, and Article 19 which, referring in completely different cases to an article of the House's electoral law, which in turn refers to another article of the same law, would allow the allocation of supernumerary seats in Sicily to another regional constituency. This interpretation is also unfounded because Article 19, as the rapporteur himself admits, has different aims and areas of application than Article 17a. The latter, in fact, concerns the initial phase of the allocation of seats, while Article 19 deals with the later stage of the holiday of the seat already allocated for any cause, even if it has occurred. It is also unfounded, finally, because the interpretation accepted by the Junta of the Senate's electoral law, which would eventually give Umbria the seat assigned to Sicily, would make the electoral law clearly unconstitutional for violation of the dictation referred to in Article 57 of the Constitution several times by me, and by all the minority colleagues who intervened previously, recalled. The solution proposed by the Junta is illegitimate for violation of the single text of the laws governing the election of the Senate of the Republic and unconstitutional for the violation of the principle contained in Article 57 of the Constitution for which the Senate is elected on a regional basis. There seems to be no doubt that the profile of the greater illegality of the proposal approved by majority by the Junta is precisely its evident and radical contrast with Article 57, first paragraph, of the Constitution, a profile which does not by chance fail to fully deepen, almost as if it resolved it implicitly considering - and illegitimately - the prevailing legislative provision - moreover misinterpreted, as I said earlier - on the constitutional one. It is clear that this is a legal fantasy. The first paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution, instead, imposing the regional base for the election of the Senate, implies that the level of the award of seats is only and only the regional one, without the possibility of translating vacant seats from one regional constituency to another, instead possible and allowed by the single text of the laws with rules for the election of the Chamber of Deputies, which does not meet the limit placed by the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution referring exclusively to the election of the Senate. It is no coincidence, moreover, that in Republican history the electoral law of the Senate has never predicted, nor has it ever occurred, the possibility of shifting seats from one regional constituency to another. Allow me, Mr President, to add one more point. The election committee has a very heavy task, a task for which, especially when assessing the validity of the elections, it clearly exercises very broad powers, including discretion. However, this does not mean that the election committee can be released from the law and can violate legislative principles. All decisions taken by the Junta must be taken within the framework of full legality, in compliance with the laws in force in this nation. All the more so, it is essential and necessary that the election committee also adhere, first of all, to the observance of our Constitution, which is, however, the lighthouse also for the application of the other laws. If there were a clearly unconstitutional rule - but, in fact, the law in force is not, because the exact interpretation of the rule of the current electoral law does not, however, allow the reasoning that has been made in the majority report - there would be no possibility of applying it. Instead, the interpretation that has been given completely violates both the electoral law, which does not indicate the path that has been followed, and, above all, the constitutional rules. It is clear that the majority report cannot be adopted and that the situation that has arisen following the examination of the Sicilian case will have to be assessed again.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u15	I would like to inform you that the question of suspensive QS1 has been raised. He asked Senator Ginetti to intervene to illustrate it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u16	Mr President, since, by its resolution, on 26 June 2019, the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, meeting to discuss the allocation of the seat not assigned in the Sicily 2 district due to the lack of candidates on the winning list, decided to propose to the Assembly of the Senate, which has been suspended from any other instance, to decide the allocation of the seat rendered vacant to a candidate of that same list not elected in another regional district where it obtained the largest decimal part of the non-used quotient, the solution proposed by the Junta concerning the seat not assigned in Sicily is not the result of a legally founded decision, but of a resolution taken by virtue of the numerical logic of the political majority of the moment. This has produced a solution that is clearly illegitimate, for violation of the current Senate electoral law, and unconstitutional for the violation of the principle contained in Article 57 of the Constitution, which requires the Senate to be elected on a regional basis. Given that the issue concerns the failure to assign a seat in Sicily to the 5 Star Movimento, whose eight candidates from the two multi-name colleges were all elected, except one, the Senator Catalfo, already elected in one of the single-name colleges of the same Sicily district, the decision by the Movimento 5 Stars to avail herself of the multi-candidate institute provided for by the current electoral law has led to the incapience of the lists of candidates of the 5 Star Movimento in Sicily who did not have sufficient candidates to cover all seats achieved. In view of the fact that the hypothesis of a list that has exhausted the number of candidates submitted in a plurinomial college, making it possible to assign all the seats to that college, is expressly provided for in Article 17- bis of the Senate electoral law (which explicitly excludes the application of the rules of the electoral law of the Chamber of Deputies, which instead allows the allocation of seats not assigned to candidates on the same list in other districts) and that this different discipline is a direct application of the dictation of Article 57, first paragraph, of the Constitution, according to which the Senate should be elected on a regional basis, an electoral law for the Senate would clearly be unconstitutional which would assign the seats won by a list in a regional constituency to candidates on the same list presented in a different region. The principle of the Senate elected on a regional basis determines, in fact, the identification of the Region as an electoral district in which the seats assigned to each of them, according to the distribution criteria specifically provided for in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same Article 57 of the Constitution, must be in the same Region entirely awarded. I note that, in order to try to remedy the express prohibition contained in article 17-a, paragraph 2, of the electoral law, in itself insurmountable, the approved proposal of the Junta relies on the following article 19, paragraph 2, of the electoral law of the Senate, according to which, in case it remains vacant for any cause, even if it has occurred, a seat in a plurinomial college, Article 86 of the single text of the laws with rules for the election of the Chamber of Deputies applies. The latter provision, in turn, in the event that the list has already exhausted its candidates, refers to the procedures laid down in Articles 84 (2), (3), (5) and (4). This reckless and clumsy interpretation of the Senate's electoral law, the result of a double postponement, which would readmit the application - a formula unknown to the present day in Italian public law - of a rule explicitly excluded from the law itself is manifestly unfounded for the reasons already outlined. I shall begin by concluding, then handing over the written text of the suspensive issue. For the reasons set out above, we believe that it has never been seen in republican history, in the life of the Senate or of Parliament in general, a violation of the Constitution - specifically, Article 57 (1) - for the allocation of vacant seats in a regional constituency by assigning the seat on the basis of a list of a different region. For these reasons we support the unconstitutionality of the resolution of the Junta and therefore of the majority report. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u17	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a debate will take place on the suspensive question in which one representative per Group will be able to speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u20	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the suspensive issue that has just been put forward is absolutely right, because the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity is absolutely, and clearly from our point of view, unconstitutional. The hypothesis that a list has exhausted the number of candidates submitted in a multi-annual college and that it is not possible to assign all the seats to it in that college is provided for in Article 17-a of the Senate electoral law, which nevertheless explicitly excludes that the rules laid down by the electoral law of the Chamber of Deputies may apply to these cases. The reason is absolutely clear, evident and insurmountable: Article 57 of the Constitution, first paragraph, and then also the fourth paragraph which regulates in detail the way in which the seats are attributed, states explicitly that the Senate is elected on a regional basis. So much so that in all these years - Senator Calderoli has an experience in this and perhaps it would have been better for him to bear his testimony - every time a new electoral law has been put in hand - and some of us have had it - the question of the Senate has been raised. This happened as far as the Mattarellum was concerned, then for the Porcellum and for the Italicum (although the latter, for the truth, the problem did not have it, because it was planned to eliminate the Senate and then had solved the problem in that way) and then again for the Rosatellum. In the highly participated debate on all changes to the electoral law, it has always been considered, rightly, that it cannot in any way, even through various techniques, exceed what is expressly provided for in our Constitution. The very motivation with which the Junta, by majority, comes here to propose to us to assign this non-supernumerary seat on the basis of a list of another Region has no other basis than to appeal to Article 1 of our Constitution. The violation of Article 57 obviously concerns not only the first paragraph, but also paragraph 4 of the same article, which also regulates in detail the proportionality in each region between the seats to be allocated on the basis of the population. Therefore, this decision of the Junta would even create a double problem, a double violation, both of the first paragraph and of the fourth paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution. On the one hand, Sicilian voters would no longer be represented by an elected one in Sicily, but even by an elected one in Umbria; on the other hand, the violation of the fourth paragraph of Article 57 would result by virtue of the fact that there would be an overrepresentation of the Umbria Region. I repeat that the application of the procedures laid down in Article 86 of the electoral law of the House of Deputies would clearly, as seen, incur a constitutional violation. We are also creating a precedent for our absolutely dangerous opinion, which takes away all certainty about the proclamation of the elect themselves. In the present case, among other things, this happened not only because the 5 Star Movimento obtained more votes than it expected, but also because it used (as well as others) the technique of double candidacy, in a single-name college and in the multi-name college. Moreover, the law also provides how to cover the list of candidates when the list of candidates is exhausted, using an associated list in coalition. In conclusion, the objective of achieving the plenum of the Senate Assembly is not over-ordered to our Constitution, which is, from this point of view, absolutely indispensable and not over-archived. I remember that there are other precedents that have made sure that the plenum was not completed. From this point of view, therefore, the precedents are in favour of choosing not to complete the plenum, in order to be rigidly and consistently respectful of Article 57 of the Constitution. For all these reasons we shall vote in favour of the QS1 suspensive issue for obvious and manifest inconstitutionality. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u23	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at this point in the debate the premises are well known. There has been a smaller number of elected candidates, because of the overlapping of nominations, to the abstract seats attributable to and by majority, and we propose a solution that we consider constitutionally illegitimate. I would like to stress this point in order to point out that our role as parliamentarians in this session of the Senate Assembly, so not in the technical committees or in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, is very important: we are individually called to be the guardians of the Constitution, regardless of sides or anything else, above all else. What are the themes at this point? The electoral law of the Senate, with the now known article 17-a, explicitly excludes that the discipline provided by the electoral law of the Chamber of Deputies can be applied, which allows, in some situations, to assign seats not assigned to candidates on the same list in other districts. There is now another matter. There is a logic that we must use. Since legal terms such as the institution of analogue interpretation have rightly been called into question, I would point out that there is a principle of closure and above that of abnormal provision, which is not allowed. It is a widely illustrated and explored legal category that is used to avoid system forces that then affect not only the specific case. Here we would be exactly in the case of the abnormal measure. There are questions of principle that cannot be exceeded: the different attribution between regional and national, between Chamber and Senate is desired. The legislator - even the constitutional legislator - has so far wanted, as long as the Constitution is not changed, to provide for a different discipline precisely by attributing to this a balance in the perfect bicameralism (which is often defended, even if not so much in fact). Article 57 of the Constitution is absolutely insurmountable. When you make a legally analog interpretation - clumsy in its legal meaning - exceeding article 17- bis of the single text of the laws for the election of the Senate, with the next article 19, paragraph 2, of the same text, I would like to remind you that the closing rules serve not when you can not find a solution that we like, but when there is an indeterminate part because however there can not be a non-discipline. However, we are not here in a case of non-discipline: here it is very clearly regulated the prohibition of using - when it is still necessary to assign seats and not when they are already allocated - the criteria for the allocation of seats to the House. On the basis of what does Article 19 prevail, which clearly serves for other hypotheses, on Article 17-a, in contradiction with a constitutional principle of Article 57, which is insurmountable? That is why the proposed solution is abnormal. All possible interpretations cannot conflict with the constitutional rule, which is the rule that guides any interpretation. From this point of view, reasoning is spoiled by obvious illogicality. First of all, it is not possible to refer to analog interpretation in different cases because there is no regulatory vacuum, but a gap in the solution that is expected, which, if necessary, for a specific case of the nature of the circumstances can be taken into account; Article 19, as the rapporteur himself has correctly explained, has absolutely different aims and areas of application because it is a later moment. It is true that, at times, an analogue standard can be used regardless of the purpose for which the norm was written, but it must be allowed by the text of the norm itself and not when there is a contradiction in terms and when there is the barrier of Article 57 of the Constitution, which states that the attribution is regional and territorial. The three reasons are therefore: these are different cases, insurmountable analogy and violation of Article 57 of the Constitution, which always prevails. Another point concerns popular sovereignty, which guides any interpretation of electoral law and which is not an abstract principle that we evoke when we no longer know what to say: it is a principle that the Constitution itself establishes must be applied in the forms and limits it provides for. Therefore, the Constitution provides guidance for popular sovereignty by establishing that it should be exercised in the forms and limits of the Constitution. In this case there is Article 57, which is inseparably linked to popular sovereignty. In this case, popular sovereignty means that there is a regional territorial principle that absolutely cannot be overwhelmed and violated. There have also been concrete examples from Mr Malan, who has rightly told us that in this case there would be a region which, with a completely random principle, would even see an increase in the number of elected on a regional basis. What's the criterion? It can't be an abstract criterion. In conclusion, the introduction of such a majority premium and a preliminary supraregional level of allocation of seats has not only never been taken into account, but has always been excluded by the legislator over time, so it is also a case against previous legislation. It is not by chance that the Senate's regional base implies that the criterion for allocating seats is always and only the regional one, which in this case derives from the application of popular sovereignty, without the possibility of transferring vacant seats from one regional constituency to another. There is no similar precedent in republican history. As I said in the preamble, we are the guardians of the constitutional dictation and we absolutely cannot overwhelm it. If there is a theme, the legislator will apply to it, but so far this is the discipline we have given ourselves and which, among other things, concerns a plant that goes beyond, that of the perfect bicameralism, which up to now has not been questioned even by a popular vote. That is why, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, not only do we insist, but we strongly and strongly support the fact that this issue is so high and important that it must be reviewed. So the suspensive request has exactly that meaning. This issue must be reviewed with all the attention, because we are introducing a revision of the Constitution surreptitiously, and that is not possible. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u24	Pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the suspensive question QS1, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u25	The Conference of the Leaders has established that today's sitting will conclude, by 15 hours, the discussion of the document of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity relative to the seat not assigned in the Region of Sicily. At 3 p.m., the question time with the ministers Tria, Moavero Milanesi and Bonafede remains confirmed. Next week, on Tuesday 30 July, from 15 hours without closing hours, will be discussed the bill of European delegation 2018 and related reports, as well as the bill on the extension of the terms of the code of the boating from diporto. On Wednesday, July 31st, the discussion will be concluded with a vote of the documents defined by the Council of the elections and parliamentary immunity in the matter of verification of the powers of Sicily, Emilia-Romagna and Calabria, and will also be examined the bill on the detachment of the Municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio. During the week, until Thursday 1st August, the calendar also provides for the examination of the following measures: educational teaching of civic education; from the drawing up office, valorizations of small food productions of local origin; from the writing office, participations in dairy companies; delegations to the Government in the matter of sports law; decree-law on provisions in the matter of order and public safety, which will be transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies; in the first resolution of the Senate, constitutional drafts already provided for in the previous calendar; accounts and internal budget of the Senate. In the course of next week the Conference of Leaders will be convened again for a further evaluation of the timetable also in the light of the work of the Commissions on the planned measures. The Commissions are authorized to convene at times which do not coincide with the meetings of the Assembly, in relation to the respective work programmes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u26	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, has adopted - in accordance with article 53 of the Regulation - the following additions to the program of the intense activities of the Senate for the months of July and August 2019: - Drawing of law n. 1416 - Amendment to article 1, paragraph 5, of the law 7 October 2015, n. 167, regarding the extension of the term for the adoption of supplementary and corrective provisions concerning the revision and the integration of the code of the nautical from pleasure (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 728 - Rules for the valorization of the small agricultural productions of local origin (from the drawing up office) - Drawing of law n. 1110 - Amendment to article 4 of the single text in matter of society to public participation, referred to in legislative decree n. 175 of 19 August 2016, concerning the participations in companies operating in the dairy sector (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (from the drawing office) - Budgetary documents
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u27	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups also adopted amendments and additions to the current timetable under Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure: [[Tuesday, July 30, 15 - Draft law n. 944 - European delegation law 2018 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (final vote with the presence of the quorum) and related Doc. LXXXVI, n. 2, and LXXXVII, n. 2, with reports on the participation of Italy in the European Union - Drawing of law n. 1416 - Extension of term boating code by diporto (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Following documents defined by the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity in the matter of verification of the powers (Wednesday 31) - Drawing of law n. 1264 and related - School teaching of civic education (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 728 - Promotion of small food productions of local origin (from the drawing house) - Drawing of law n. 1110 - Participation in society of the dairy sector (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1372 - Delegation of the final government in the matter of regulation (approved by the House of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1372 VIII, Nos. 3 and 4 - 2018 account and draft internal budget 2019 of the Senate Wednesday 31 " 9,30 Thursday 1 August 9,30]] Amendments to the draft law No 944 (European Delegation Law 2018) and No 1416 (Proroga term recreational boating code) will have to be tabled by 7 p.m. on Thursday 25 July. The terms for the submission of amendments to the draft law n. 1264 and related (School Teaching of Civic Education), to the bill n. 1372 (Delegations to the Government in the matter of sports law), to the bill n.... (Decree-Law n. 53, Provisions in the matter of order and public security) and to the constitutional bill n. 1089 (Provisions in the matter of popular legislative initiative and referendum) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 944 (Law of European Delegation 2018) and related documents Doc. LXXXVI, No 2, and Doc. LXXXVII, No 2 (Programme and summary reports on Italy's participation in the European Union) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 11' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1372 (Delegations to the Government on Sports Law) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 11' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 53, Provisions on order and public security) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 11' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u30	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, I speak very quickly only to say that, by not wanting to interfere in any way with the work of this House and with the debate, we need a group meeting and therefore we will not be present and we will move away from this House. It is not a lack of respect, neither for the subject, nor for those who remain: I also communicate it in order to avoid speculation, which perhaps yesterday was made, about our behavior. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Pirovano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u31	I declare the debate open. He is enlisted to speak Senator Jacob. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u32	Mr President, as has been pointed out earlier, the premises in this case are clear, although it is worth remembering that, in the elections of 4 March 2018, the Movimento 5 Stars... [[blush]] , whose senators are quite noisy right now...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u33	Although colleagues are moving away from this House with sound reasons, I would ask them to do so in silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u34	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Thank you, Mr. President. I said that in Sicily, my Region, the Movimento 5 Stars won about two thirds of the seats between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, but the multi-candidates determined the holiday of a seat. In the Chamber of Deputies they were able to resolve the problem by reassigning the supernumerary seats on the national level, since there is no link, in force to the Senate, of the regional base, referred to in the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution. The Junta today proposes by majority to assign the vacant seat to an unelected candidate of the Movimento 5 Stars in the regional district of Umbria, in which it obtained the most decimal part of the unused quotient. Mr President, I would like to point out that this is unacceptable, because the Sicilian voter today would be represented by a senator who had first expressed his willingness to run for office in a region other than that in which he would be "catapulted" today. It follows that the same senator was from the beginning willing to act politically in the interest of his own Region and not for a different one. Here too, I believe that there is a new conception of the policy implemented by Movimento 5 Stars - although we can say that the Movement itself changes its mind about everything and everyone - about the principle of territorial representativeness, as we see in this case. Apart from this daily observation of the chameleonism of the 5 Star Movement, I think there are some very important issues to consider, such as the role of parliamentary representation, then the lack of a senator to the region of Sicily and finally the respect and application of Article 57 of the Constitution. Finally, consideration should be given to multi-annual applications. I believe that the fundamental problem for the definition of this issue lies in the definition of the role of parliamentary representation and, in this case, in the absence of a direct relationship between the elected and their voters. We often elect to represent in the Senate in a Region people who in that Region have never lived: see the case of Minister Salvini in Calabria. How does a person represent a territory in which he has never lived? This is also one of the causes of a lack of confidence in politics. Voters do not have a precise point of reference to confront and relate. This contact is instead delegated to the parties, which very often are seen as distant interlocutors, perhaps even random. If, on the other hand, politics, the one with the capital, encouraged the direct relationship with the voters, then today we would not be here to ask ourselves the question on how to solve the problem of the non-election of a senator in Sicily. The relationship with voters means living on the spot, actively participating in the life of the society in which you are elected, putting yourself at the service not only of the country, in Parliament, but also and above all of the residents in the territory where you are elected. This, Mr President, brings me to the second point I mentioned earlier. If the representative in Parliament were to maintain direct contact with his constituents it would make no sense today to have to decide on a candidate senator in Umbria, who perhaps never set foot in Sicily, and who in any case, not living in that territory, has no idea of the issues, problems and needs of the Sicilian voters. But on this reasoning of common sense, fortunately, Article 57 of the Constitution prevails: it seems extremely clear to me. Article 57 states that the Senate must be elected on a regional basis. The Region in this case is Sicily and, let me point out, Mr President, that Umbria is a beautiful Region, perhaps the one where I would go to live if I came back to live in Italy, but, until proven otherwise, it is not part of Sicily; it is not a Sicilian Province. At a personal level too, Mr President, the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity leaves me so bitter in my mouth. I am Sicilian and allow me to say that the constituent Fathers, in formulating Article 57, also thought of me, namely that the Sicilians must have the opportunity to vote their representatives in Parliament, in the Senate; they cannot and must not delegate this right to another Region. Whatever legal interpretations are trying to get through the window as much as you can't get through the door, I as a Sicilian feel treated as a B-series citizen. I am not allowed to decide my representatives in the Senate; I am forced, by this complex interpretation of the law proposed by the Junta, to see my right abdicate to another Region. I would be happy if other parliamentarians in my region would express their views on this matter. Obviously, if we start from the assumption that parliamentarians do not represent citizens, the conclusion would be different from mine; but the Constitution, which guides the civil life of the country, reminds us that the senators due to Sicily must be elected in Sicily. Any other conclusion does not respect the Italian Constitution; it serves only to the interest of this or that party; it serves the aspirations of this or that Minister who, having an extra Member, hopes to extend his office over time. However, it does not respect the Constitution and therefore I do not think that in this House we can be complicit in an attempt to adopt a clearly unconstitutional act. 12:14 p.m. (JACOBBE followed). Moreover, the Constitution, in determining the principles of the composition of the Senate, has taken into account balances and proportions between different regions that would be less if Article 57 of the Senate was not fully respected. Finally, Mr President, there is the question of multiple applications. Whose fault is it - if fault can be defined - of multiple applications? One could say of the law; but of the law we must accept benefits and consequences. If the advantage is that the law allows flexibility in the application of rules - in this case multiple applications - those who choose to go that way should then accept the consequences: in this case, one less senator. For absurdity, if a candidate accepted not only a double candidacy, as in this case, but maybe three or four competing nominations in the same region, and the result of the elections was similar to that of 2018, how many senators should be chosen by candidates in other regions? The situation in Sicily was caused by the multiple applications of the Movimento 5 Stars. If it is not possible to award a seat because the elected candidates are more than the candidates available, the consequence should be that those who have decided on multiple applications, i.e. the Movimento 5 Stars. For these reasons, Mr President, I am concerned about the issue on which we are going to vote, even if it is not today. In this House, I think we must ensure that the Constitution is respected. In this House we must respect the Sicilian people. We cannot allow Sicily to be a candidate in another region; we cannot vote for a decision in open conflict with our Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u35	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u36	Mr President, I would like to stress that the decision taken by the Junta seems to us to be totally unsatisfying and manifestly unconstitutional. It was born from the Sicilian case - as we have already said - and from the election result achieved by the 5 Star Movement in the elections of 4 March 2018. And the cause is the presence of short plurinomial lists, which did not allow the assignment of a seat, since the Movimento 5 Stars made use of the faculty to indicate the same person, the Senator Catalfo, both for the single college and for the plurinomial lists, which caused the non possibility of assigning an additional seat to the Movimento 5 Stars. The Junta, with its majority report, has considered to propose a solution that - from our point of view - is in the meantime illegitimate, because in violation of the electoral law, and above all unconstitutional, for violation of article 57, first paragraph, of the Constitution, which states precisely that the Senate must be elected on a regional territorial basis, making it coincide with the regional constituency and, therefore, all candidates on a list must be related anyway to the territorial context in which they were candidates. If the current rule - as proposed by analogy - provided for by the Chamber were applied, it would result in the allocation to another Region of the senatorial seat of the Region of Sicily, as it was proposed, in violation - clearly, therefore - of the distribution of seats provided for under Article 57. It does not seem to us that such an analogue interpretation of the electoral law can be applied: in practice, the Council of Elections and Immunities, with a majority and a political vote only, has decided to propose to the Assembly an illegitimate solution from the legal point of view for the allocation of the vacant seat, assigning it to a candidate taken from the list of candidatures of the Umbria Region, according to the criterion of most decimal part of the quotient not used, according to a part of the electoral law that cannot relate to the allocation of seats to the Senate; therefore, this is in clear contrast to the prohibition contained in article 17- bis, paragraph 2 of the electoral law; insurmountable prohibition, from our point of view, because it cannot be exceeded even from the following article 19, which moreover applies and has been provided only for the occurrence of a seat in a plurinominal college. To the comments that have been made, I would like to add another which concerns the lack of competence of the Junta, which has given itself a faculty that is not its own: in particular, in order to justify this unfounded and illogical solution, the power to strike a balance between three separate constitutional principles, which - in the opinion of the Junta itself - in the present case would be contrary to one another. We are absolutely convinced, however, that it is not for the Junta to strike any balance between the constitutional norms, as laid down in Article 19 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, since it - according to the rules of the appropriate Rules of Procedure - must carry out the verification of the titles of admission of the senators and of the causes of ineligibility and incompatibility, but it cannot arrive at the evaluation of a balance of constitutional principles. Its decisions must be based only on requirements laid down by law, and not on interpretative operations, aimed, moreover, at violating the prohibition expressly provided for both by the electoral law and by the Constitution for the allocation of a seat to the Senate of the Region of Sicily to candidates not re-elected presented in other Regions. To justify the proposal approved by the Junta, the rapporteur referred to the principle of popular sovereignty, referred to in Article 1 of our Constitution, which would require the election of a candidate of the Movimento 5 Stars presented and not elected in a region other than Sicily. It should be recalled that Article 1 of the Italian Constitution states that "Sovereignty belongs to the people, which exercises it in the forms and within the limits of the Constitution" and therefore consistent with the other constitutional principles that come to light and, that is, both with the principle of territoriality, which requires that the seats provided for them be elected in Sicily, and with that pertaining to the election on a regional basis for which the candidates of other regional districts cannot be elected by the votes of the Sicilians. The problem of the vacant senatorial seat, therefore, concerns the Sicilian voters and not the supreme popular will unduly recalled by the rapporteur, who would like the votes used to elect a candidate in another region, in clear violation of the Italian Constitution. Finally, I would like to focus on one fundamental aspect. The interpretation given by the majority in the Junta of the Senate electoral law, in order to allow Umbria to assign the seat assigned to Sicily, would make the electoral law clearly unconstitutional for violation of Article 57 of the Constitution, as has already been mentioned. For these reasons, the Democratic Party considers the solution proposed by the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys to be absolutely illegitimate for violation of the electoral and unconstitutional law for violation of the principle contained in Article 57 of the Constitution, which requires the Senate to be elected on a regional basis. Article 57 (1) of the Constitution imposes, in fact, the regional base for the election of the Senate and implies that the level of award of seats is only and only the regional one, without any possibility of translation of vacant seats from one regional circuit to another. It is no coincidence, moreover, that in Republican history the electoral law of the Senate has never foreseen, nor have there ever been any hypothesis of shifting seats from one regional constituency to another. We therefore believe that a political vote clearly in conflict with the Constitution, expressed in this House, is a dangerous precedent and a threat to the democratic order of the country. 12:24 a.m. (Follow GINETTI). Although the Council has the power to resolve these situations and it is within its competence to decide on the allocation of seats, this can only be done in full legitimacy and, therefore, in compliance with the electoral rules and above all with the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u37	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u38	Mr President, I have to say - as Senator Malan said in his report - that the subject is very simple. Article 57 of the Constitution is absolutely clear, both in the first and in the fourth paragraphs. The interpretation given, using a rule for the Chamber of Deputies, is absolutely unusable and foreign. It is clear that the situation is very complicated, but choosing the path, the one that is more obviously unconstitutional, to arrive at the indication of a new senator, is the most wrong we can do; moreover, it proposes - as I heard during the illustration of the report, which I have also read carefully - a certain subject. We are deciding to open a very critical precedent, because this House is consciously called upon to express itself on a clearly and clearly unconstitutional choice, without there being any room for interpretation - I hope to be understood when I say this - which will allow us to find a reason. President Grasso's minority report is - from this point of view - very clear. Among the three possibilities that we have (assigning the seat to another party; assigning the seat to another region; not assigning the seat), the least critical and frontal in relation to the constitutional issue we are discussing - I am not saying what solves the problem - is certainly to take note - as has been done in the Chamber of Deputies - having other norms and another constitutional dictation, not to assign the seat, for an original choice of the Movimento 5 Stars. We are having this debate between a very authoritative, but restricted group of senators. To me, frankly, it strikes - and I say this to the Presidency too - that we are going to get here. I understand the need for Movimento 5 Stars to have the seat; I can understand it from a political point of view, but then there is a limit. What I am asking is not a political issue that concerns the Movimento 5 Stars or the majority: it is a constitutional issue. But do we really feel like opening such a precedent? This is the theme. I think it's a serious and serious mistake. Today we are in the middle of this debate. Will we make such a choice? Tomorrow we will be able to have another debate on the substance of another subject. Are we going to proceed in this way, since we have already done a frontal of this kind, with an article that cannot be interpreted - I insist - of the Constitution? I would like to think and hope that in this House there will be the possibility of making the distinction I am proposing between the legitimate interests of a political force and such a significant institutional and constitutional issue. I see no other possibility, no escape from this issue, which is so clear. By doing so, we know that we make a choice that is completely, clearly and in a clear, unconstitutional way. This is a precedent which, in our view, would be very serious and which the Senate should not allow. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u40	Mr President, I have the advantage of speaking after the Members who have already explained, because they have given me additional elements to make my wonder clear and then to overcome some difficulties that I never thought I could find, representing my region in the Senate of the Republic and getting to deal with the issue that has been said, I will continue to say and I think that other colleagues will also say. We are talking about what is called parliamentary representativeness, which is more, much more than representation. As a great teacher of state doctrine, political doctrines and political science said, Gianfranco Miglio, parliamentary representativeness makes possible the presence of the absent. Cito Gianfranco Miglio, who is not the last deputy director of "the Unity," but is an aim dictator, appreciated computer and thinker, I believe recognized as such by great part of those who have won and also by great part of those who are absent today. If, then, the question is parliamentary representativeness, how can one think of playing with the seriousness of this constitutional guarantee? It is in fact a game that has been aired in the difficult works of the special and dedicated Junta; a Junta that is not absolutus, even if it is looking for solutions. We are looking for solutions, but keeping in mind that we are not absoluts, that is, we are not freed from the constraints that lie within the life of the order. And the first bond of the life of the order is the Constitution, with the guarantees it puts in order to make sure that there are no surprises. We do not start with the intention of surprising: we start with the intention of finding solutions and then we arrive in the cave. But how can it be imagined that, at a time like what we are experiencing - allow me - at a high rate of regionalist competition, because we are looking for the autonomous and strengthened regions, we are doing on one side less one and on the other side more one, as if we were playing? It's a game that goes on. When it comes to order, it must then be borne in mind that the culture of the limit must always be strong and present, because today this force is being forced to seek a solution perhaps to the power of a political force and then later, because the system of limit and guarantees has been broken, there will be more. That is why those who have spoken so far about my Group, but also other authoritative senators, whom I always recognize as such, like Mr Errani, should lead to reflection, knowing that we are not here to try to say, but we are here to represent and induce the best possible conduct, before and during the decision. We tried first to facilitate the suspensive, which gives rise to a reflective interruption; now we are trying to talk to you, using the only willingness in democracy, which are the arguments. As we said yesterday at another meeting site, in my party's group, there are words and arguments in democracy, while before democracy there were swords to assert and prevail the positions of those who thought they were right. Then, within this framework, paragraph 4 of Article 57 of the Constitution is not a chandelier, which one takes, takes away, turns on or off; it is a point of certainty, respected by which there is the functioning of the order. We must know that there has already been some precedent of this kind, even in the distant history of our parliamentary life. I have had a lot of time in my past years to study, because a political battle that ended up in the "justiciret" led me to study so much. I found a Member, of course, of my Region, Giuseppe Andrea Angeloni of Roccaraso, who said, to those who wanted to run for office in another territory, who wanted to be senator and parliamentary of his Region, because the specific of his mandate was in his Region and in his territory. If we were in a classroom of philosophy we would say the horse's "cavallinity," the "parliamentaryity" of the parliamentarians is in the territory, especially for the Senate. That is why we cannot play, and I hope that the relevant experience in the Commission will ensure that we reflect: to adjust, to make a combination, does not mean to ensure that the interest of the country, the interest of the functioning of the system, is respected. I never imagined I would have to do this kind of intervention against a regulatory dictation. I say 'dictatorship' because what has taken place is the will of a regulatory dictation that adapts to a need of the moment a structure related to the main norms. I don't know what's beyond "no." I come from a peasant culture, that of Majella, and when things are impossible you rely on prayers. So I would almost say a prayer so that we can stop. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups and Senator Malan]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u42	Mr President, I am speaking on the Sicilian question and I am speaking on a constitutional duty, as I would like to remind everyone that on 7 May last, the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation stated a truth which had already been reiterated by the Court of Cassation and the Constitutional Court, namely that in the system of self-dedication of the two Chambers there is a sort of constitutional self-dedication in the matter of verification of powers which cannot under any circumstances be the responsibility of ordinary administrative judges. The role of the judge lies with the House. So, we have to apply the rules like a judge would. By violating this rule, we violate a constitutional principle. What does the Constitution say? Go and read the work of the constituent assembly: they did not want to make two rooms that had the same model of representativeness, or representation of the territories. The Chamber of Deputies is elected on national territory. The laws that arrived later applied the constitutional principles, so the Senate should be elected on a regional basis, the House on a national basis; therefore, the laws that intervened had respect for these constitutional principles. We have had some examples of problems. We must take account of the fact that we cannot decide on these issues on the basis of incompetence and lack of knowledge of the precedents. We cannot decide on the basis of the alleged omnipotence resulting from the first results in the elections. So what's the rule? Some of you do not remember this, but years ago a party - the PSIUP (Italian Socialist Party of Proletarian Unity) - took 1.8 million votes; but, since the House had the rule that a seat had to be won in order to use the rest of the votes, it was not possible that it had a Member. The Senate, if this interpretation had passed, would have had not one but perhaps six or seven seats, because it was enough to add - according to your opinion - the quotients conquered in all the Regions since the Senate did not have the same rule of having to elect at least one senator in order to participate. Senator De Petris recalled the following story when, with the Government of Forza Italia, the introduction of the majority prize into electoral law was discussed. At the time, President Ciampi's intervention of moral persuasion led to a well defined election of the Senate at regional level and, therefore, the fact that there could not be a majority prize based on national election. Let's go further. Today it is said that we must take the seat and, from Sicily, move it to another region. I've read your reports. That of Mr Malan - and I am not saying this because he belongs to my Group - has highlighted the relationship between the article of the Constitution which provides for regional election and the article of the Constitution which provides for the relationship between the population and the elected; a relationship which cannot be altered by an interpretation. I turn to the rapporteur to tell him that I do not know what the opinion of a constitutionalist is, but this constitutionalist has forgotten what the minimum rules of interpretation are. An analogue application in constitutional matters cannot be made. In the matter of the Constitution, we cannot make an interpretation that does not depend on the constitutional fact. It is as if the law that applied that constitutional rule could be interpreted differently from the law implementing the constitutional principle. If that is the law of implementation of the constitutional principle, any constitutionalist, was also the best chairman in the country, he erred, made a mistake and, probably, commented on the law without taking into account that it was a law of application of the constitutional principles. Only in this case, in fact, may he have thought of the possibility of applying to the Senate a law provided for the Chamber that responds to different principles. What, then, is the rule behind this Senate resolution? The strength of the numbers of the majority. There is no standard that can satisfy me; there is no interpretation that has a minimum of consistency. I understand everything. I know that all opinions must be respected. But the opinion that does not go beyond the rules of the Constitution is not even taken into account in a council chamber. I'd like to understand. I tried to read the whole report. I tried to look for a stick that could justify the interpretation that is proposed, but I didn't find anything. I still haven't figured out how to break the law. In view of the latest arrest of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation, it would seem to me very serious that, instead of thanking us, we take advantage of a specificity that the Constitution recognizes to the Chambers. We are, in fact, the only powers that have the possibility to assess the regularity of the election of their members. The rapporteur, Senator Casson, in the past legislature, tried to argue that the election committee was a parajurisdictional body. Perhaps, the united sections, precisely because of that error committed by the Senate, have considered it right, in a judgment that concerned a conflict of jurisdiction between the self-dichia organs and the ordinary judiciary, to specify what were the activity and qualification of the Senate and the Chambers in that matter. I do not know, then, with what criterion we insist on speaking of honesty or legality, because neither honesty nor legality can be invoked more by the Movimento 5 Stars, if it even proposes us, because of the arrogance of the majority, to violate the law, to do something that is contrary to the basic principles of law. You, the rapporteur, have a degree in law, and you know very well that if a student, under constitutional law, were to claim a thesis such as that of the constitutionalist you invoked, he would be rejected, because there is no possibility of error in constitutional matters, nor is there any possibility of recourse to analogy. Reason, then, and assume the responsibility to say that you are the majority power and you will vote in this way because the Italian people told you to do what you want. In that case, probably, the Court of Cassation and the Constitutional Court, reflecting later, will be able to think whether it is right to maintain that quasi-constitutional self-declaration system of the Chambers that has never been called into question. But, in the face of the continuing violation of the norms that uphold that principle, there is no possibility of respecting a House that makes a mess of constitutional principles and legality. [[Applause from the FI-BP and Mixed Groups and Senator Biti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u43	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are facing today in this House is paradoxical, if not absurd. In summary, the majority asks us to vote to save Senator Salvini, moving him from Calabria to Lazio, at the same time assigning a seat in the uninomial college of Modena to another legist - the same seat in which our democratic colleague Edward Patriarch was elected - to arrive then, dulcis in fundo, to save even the Five Stars, assigning them a seat that is not theirs in Umbria. This is the photograph of what we are called upon to vote on with this measure. In essence, we are faced with a majority exchanging seats as if it were the album of the Panini figurines or, in other words, a majority trampling the rules. The Five Stars, abandoned all ambition of honesty - they are now only the oldest who remember that honesty once was the flag that was always waved to the four winds by the Five Stars - today they decide to inscribe the allocation of seats on a regional basis, despite being expressly provided by the Constitution, and give a seat of Sicily to Umbria as well, as if nothing were, as if it were their property. One could say "His Majesty the Movimento 5 Stars" with that presumption that is often observed in those parties that are on the way to sunset, among other things without the slightest sense of decorum. I find it serious, Mr President, that we do not even deserve to follow the debate in this House by convening a meeting at the same time. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We inform fellow Members that the allocation of seats takes place on the basis of a precise constitutional dictation and it is Parliament's duty to ensure that the Constitution is respected, as the various Members who preceded me have already said. It is not a discretionary choice, because our Constitution is not the courtesy of the majority in turn: the Constitution is a serious matter, it is a set of rules that this majority is not respecting. It is the people who are sovereign, it is not the majority in the Government that is sovereign. No force, not even government, is comparable to the Sun King. Article 57 of the Constitution provides that the Senate is elected on a regional basis: it means that it is the voters of a particular territory who express their representatives. You don't divide at the table who gets elected and where. It therefore appears that those seats, which today are intended to be attributed in the light of a split agreement and not on the basis of the votes actually achieved, cannot be allocated in this way. Only at Movimento 5 Stars that doesn't matter and the League doesn't even. This majority does not care about the rules and so the yellow-green component of the Junta of the elections is establishing that the vacant seat in Sicily will be cashed in Umbria. This is a blatant violation of the Constitution. With this vote, those 5 Stars who pretended to be honest claim to assign a seat of Sicilian voters to Umbrian voters; meanwhile, they remove one from the Emilian Democrats to give it to a legist. Of course, one hand washes the other. On the other hand, the allies of this majority have been trading favors for months. It is the same style in which Minister Salvini was taken away from the judgment of a legitimate trial; a minister elected in Calabria, who now wants to become a Senator from Calabria to become a Senator in Lazio, unraveling his co-ordinator Ciociara, the same co-ordinator who, in turn, was a senator only for a few days, having taken over from my colleague Bonfrisco, who in the meantime became a MEP. A traffic of such shabby places has never been seen, even in the darkest times of the First Republic. In short, in the League there is a candidate everywhere, where there is an election, taking for example Secretary Salvini, who has always been an omnipresent candidate, except then excel by absenteeism, or the Euro Parliament, or the meetings of the Ministers of the Interior at European level, or at the Viminale. [[Applause from the PD Group]] All this happens while, in parallel, there is a constitutional reform that delegitimizes and weakens Parliament; so much so that it is spontaneous to wonder where all those who shouted at the scandal ended when we in the PD, following the model of the major Western democracies, abolished the perfect bicameralism in order to make Parliament more efficient. Where are all those gentlemen now who, without any efficiency of the Chambers, 5 Stars and League trade seats as if they were personal objects? Yeah, it's true! I forgot that in this new edition of the First Republic - other than Third Republic! Other than the government of change - everything is granted, just change its name. Here the condones become fiscal peace; the attachment to the armchair becomes a zero mandate and the incursion becomes a sense of responsibility. Unfortunately, the truth is that with this vote the parties that make up the majority strengthen their alliance and humiliate this House and the Assembly for elections and immunities, which as a guarantee instrument is transformed into an instrument of political gain in part. In short, Mr President, Lega and Movimento 5 Stars fight every day, but they agree at night; they pretend to clash in front of the cameras, but then decide under the table seats and nominations in the secret rooms. So much for transparency! So much for the popular will! In the face of so much flagship as forgotten honesty! This is a squalid operation, Mr President, which has no precedent, of which those who make themselves responsible can only be ashamed. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u45	Senator Beginini is registered to speak, and I do not see him in the Chamber now: "he has escaped." In view of the difficulty of the subject, I understand that very well. [[Senator Grimani's comments.]] BITI (PD). These comments could also be spared. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Rojc is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the two chambers of the Italian Parliament are in fact limiting the representativeness of the citizens of many regions of Italy, with the approval of the law on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians - vulnus which also affects the Friuli-Venezia Giulia closely, and in particular the possibility of my community, the Slovenian one, to be represented - the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity decides, by majority, to propose to this Assembly an exchange between the Sicily 2 constituency and another regional constituency by incapience of the lists of candidates of the Movimento 5 Stars. Our Constitution still provides for regional representativeness, as stated on several occasions in Article 57 of the Magna Carta of our Republic. So this is a matter of principle. Evidently our constituent Fathers have clearly expressed the need for a democratic and modern country to be represented in this House, home of our thoughts in which everything reminds us of our duties, as we read on that stone behind the Presidency, all of Italy to give voice to all citizens who have the right to see themselves represented. 12:57 p.m. (ROJC follow). Therefore it is not only unconstitutional, but also dramatically immoral to think of considering a measure of this magnitude and, that is, to deprive a part of the citizens of the Region of Sicily of being represented. This House cannot fail to respect the fundamental law that allows us to say Italian citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u47	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u48	Mr President, I would like to express my conviction that this is a serious matter because, in my opinion, it is a vulnus of our Constitution. Imagine that the constitutional dictation, according to which the senators are elected within the Region, is bent according to the criteria of the law of implementation seems to me the most serious vulnus that can be imagined. I understand very well that even leaving Parliament (even if it has already happened on another occasion) with a number less than the plenum, always provided for by the better Constitution, is certainly not something to be desired. I am sorry that Mr Gasparri has left, but the rapporteur is here. The original hypothesis put forward by the rapporteur was to use one of the alternates which, according to the news of the electoral law, parties must indicate, albeit with a very different aim, as to fill the lists where there was a waiver or a lack of balance between genders. However, this hypothesis, in my opinion, outside the legislation, is the path that creates the least problems of unconstitutionality. And that is why I wanted to intervene, because this is a circumstance which, perhaps, has not been well examined. The current rule provides that, in the present case, if, for example, a Senator of the Movimento 5 Star less had been elected in the other constituency of Sicily, i.e. if he had won the candidate of another party in one of the unelected colleges, the non-elected candidate of the Movimento 5 Stars would have taken the missing place. Correct, Mr. Rapporteur? Well, the problem of recognizing the candidate would also arise in this hypothesis because, according to the law, he, in a region as large as Sicily, would be elected in another college, in another constituency. A candidate in Erice or Trapani, on the other side of Sicily, could be elected to Messina, a person never seen, never heard of or known to voters in eastern Sicily. It is therefore a fiction to believe that the problem of recognizability can be brought on the basis of the rejection of the thesis, originally proposed by the rapporteur, of the knowledgeability of the name, surname and curriculum of the candidate. Formally it is impeccable, but it is essentially devoid of any value. Of course, I understand that we are at the limits, indeed beyond the provision of the law, but in any case, whether by not accepting the thesis of regionality or by not allowing the plenum, we would be far beyond the constitutional prediction and our own electoral law. I can therefore imagine that we can still go back to that hypothesis, also bearing in mind that the Presidency of the Republic if it could, as is the case with the laws, postpone the measure to us, it would certainly do so. Just as surely this rule will give rise to an appeal of constitutionality, on the part of those who may have interest, who knows when and who knows how. In conclusion, we are talking about a lack of legislation. We must start from this assumption: there is a legislative vacuum, a lack of Parliament in what was the worst electoral law, which had been designed not to create a majority and in which it was not even thought how to cover (in the event that then occurred) all the posts assigned to the House and the Senate. Having said that, since it is a legislative vacuum which must be filled, as soon as possible, with a specific rule, the solution proposed by the rapporteur seems to me to be the only possible solution which does not affect constitutional rules, but which, if anything, goes beyond - but there may be the interpretation that I have suggested - the correctness of the rule of electoral law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u49	The debate is closed. I shall refer the document back to another sitting. I suspend work until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1.04 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u50	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Balboni has the right to explain the question 3-01065 on the child care system for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u51	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the scandal that broke out in recent days in the province of Reggio Emilia, in Bibbiano, about the illicit system of custody of minors, torn from their natural families by falsifications of acts and other escapades, has deeply upset public opinion. From the inquiry "Angels and Demons" a dramatic overall picture is emerging very worrying, especially considering that behind this system an illicit business of several hundreds of thousands of euros and - even more serious, horror in the horror - a questionable ideological LGBT motive. In addition to the seriousness of the offences committed by the various actors involved (psychologists, psychotherapists, socio-health workers, representatives of territorial social services and local administrators), and the horror of the abuses - also of a psychophysical nature - committed on minors and their families, what strikes, in fact, is the direct involvement of Federica Anghinolfi, responsible for the integrated social service of the Union of Municipalities of Val d'Enza. According to the investigators, it would be you, LGBT activist and paladin of gay parenting and of entrusting to homosexual couples, one of the decisive summits of the Emilian system of custody of minors and even would emerge, in some cases, close links between the homosexual foster care and, indeed, the workers and managers of the social service. Anghinolfi has in fact participated in the past to numerous conferences on the topic, like that last May 2018 in Mantua titled "Affidarsi": a welcoming look towards the LGBT trust, in which moreover the experiences would have been presented and - it is said - the good practices of virtuous Municipalities that for some time have started specific planning in this regard. All this said, it is asked to know how many children today have been entrusted to single people and, among them, how many are declared homosexuals and how many children with homosexual couples and what were the reasons that led to prefer this choice as an alternative to the one indicated primarily by the law, relying on families with children, as well as what further information it considers to be able to provide regarding the fearful risk of the existence of an ideological LGBT motive behind the complex system of custody of minors. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u52	The Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u53	Mr President, I would first like to stress that the protection of children is at the top of the government's list of commitments. That is why, as you know, I immediately set up a special justice team for the protection of minors, which I have decided to chair personally and which will already meet next Wednesday. It is a team composed of experts of different professionalism, inside and outside the Ministry, who deal with minors. Among the various objectives of the team will be of immediate impact the widespread monitoring of the general progress of the procedures of entrusting throughout the territory, as well as the establishment of an integrated database dedicated to the procedures of entrusting and adoption. Open your eyes to the procedures in question, today segmented between territorial and central competences and the various ministries, will favour a tight control over every phase of the procedure of entrusting. Among other things, a dialogue has already begun with the other relevant ministries, in particular with Minister Locatelli, to try to coordinate us all, in order to achieve the objective of protecting children. The result of this monitoring will result in the intervention strategy, including the regulatory strategy, which will become necessary. My commitment is as strong as my respect for the work being carried out by the judiciary in parallel with the facts being investigated, on which no clear interference must be created. Whoever's got the wrong pay and will pay, I'm sure. Likewise, the Ministry for about two weeks has already activated the inspectorate that is carrying out its own investigation into the so-called Bible affair. At the moment, however, I want to call on all political forces to travel with unity of intent on such an important issue. With regard to databases, I have already made it clear that one of the Ministry's objectives is to have one, which is currently not there. With regard to parental fitness and foster care, these assessments are made in the specific case by the professionals and we must ensure that we always have an eye on everything that happened. There is no doubt that bigenitality must always be a preferential criterion, however, as already provided for by the law and the guidelines, a circumstance cited by interrogators. It is therefore a question of filling the legislation, when it has to be filled, but at the same time also of trying to ensure that the laws on the protection of children are correctly applied and monitored. Having said that, it must be clear to everyone that in our country, in our democracy and with our Constitution there can never be room for any database that can even monitor our citizens or censor them for sexual orientation: I believe that we can all agree on this. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u54	Senator Balboni has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u55	Minister, thank you for your answer, although you have not actually answered my question. Nobody asks to file or enter in the database, but to know if there is an ideological prejudice in favour of parents or gay foster carers in custody of children. In our opinion, a child is entitled to a mother and a father: as you mentioned, the law requires children to be entrusted to families with children, where there is a father and a mother. We are faced with the scandal of children who have been taken away to earn homes and families: we are talking about 200, 300 or 400 euros a day. They steal children from families for economic reasons, when with much less they could help those families to keep, maintain and educate their children in the protection of the family, as they want the law and the Constitution. What emerges as scandalous in Bibbiano is that children were taken away without reason from families for the purpose of entrusting them to gay people to prove that this was a better place than the traditional family, where they grew up. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] MALPEZZI (PD). What are you talking about? Shame! Balboni (FdI). That is the ideological prejudice that has emerged from the investigations, and it is on that, dear Minister, that we call on you to monitor. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u56	Senator Campari has the right to explain the question 3-01067 on VAT on veterinary medicines, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u57	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since veterinary doctors who, following a medical-veterine visit, also dispense first-use medicines, must apply VAT at the time of billing their own benefit to 22% in addition to charging the price of the medicine already collected at 10% and then re-apply their own VAT to 22% (which adds 2% of the veterinary cash), it is noted that this entails an increase in costs for the owner of the animal subject to veterinary examination and treatment, which is forced to pay further VAT on the medicine dispensed by the veterinary doctor at the time of payment of the invoice. According to paragraph 3 of Article 84 of Legislative Decree No. 193 of 2006, the transfer of the veterinary medicinal product is to be considered ancillary to the professional one. In particular, the ancillary character is defined by Article 12 of the decree of the President of the Republic No 633 of 1972 (principle of ancillaryity), which provides that a supply ancillary to a supply of goods or services, carried out directly by the transferor or provider or on his behalf and at his own expense, are not subject to tax in the relations between the parties to the main transaction. If the main supply or service is subject to tax, the fees of taxable ancillary supplies or services contribute to the formation of the taxable base; the ancillary one, which is less important, loses its autonomy and is absorbed into the main transaction and therefore not only falls within the same taxable amount, but attracts the same rate. If the medicine sold at a rate other than that of medical and veterinary services, currently at 22%, is shown in the invoice, a real commercial activity of sale of the drug is carried out; activity reserved for pharmacies, and now also for parapharmacies. Therefore, in an invoice in which the cost of the drug is far greater than that of the visit, because the medicines for animals are very expensive, there is an increase of VAT not due, and the drug should be kept out of the taxable VAT. It is asked whether the Minister does not intend to take steps to ensure that the medicine dispensed by veterinary doctors is not considered as ancillary to the main medical examination, in order to allow the owner not to pay the increase in VAT on the medicinal product. In practice, customers have to pay VAT twice and incur costs that are not due. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u58	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Tria, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u59	Mr President, in connection with this question, it should first be noted that, on the basis of the regulatory framework, consisting of the Community code on veterinary medicinal products, the retail sale of veterinary medicinal products is carried out only by pharmacists in pharmacy, on presentation of a veterinary prescription, if required. This rule provides for exceptions, but not with regard to the veterinary surgeon who therefore cannot legally sell veterinary medicinal products. The veterinary surgeon in the course of his or her activity, and where professional intervention so requires, may deliver to the breeder or owner of the animals the packages of veterinary medicinal products of his or her own stock and which he or she has already used, in order to start the therapy pending that the person obtains on presentation of the recipe prepared by the veterinary doctor, according to the types envisaged, other packages prescribed for the continuation of the therapy. Its regulatory framework shows that, from the point of view of value added tax, the delivery of veterinary medicinal products by the veterinarian is ancillary to the main performance. In fact, such delivery of veterinary medicinal products can only be made as a result of the performance carried out by the veterinary surgeon and only for the purpose of initiating therapy, however only in respect of packages of veterinary medicinal products of his own stock and already used by the veterinary surgeon himself for the realization of the professional service. Accordingly, the rules governing supplies and ancillary services apply to the supply of the veterinary medicinal product, according to which such supplies must be subject to the same VAT rate as for veterinary services, i.e. 22%. In this sense, several judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union have made it clear that a supply of goods or services must be regarded as ancillary to a principal transaction when it complements, completes and makes possible the principal transaction. Accessibility is therefore a condition of fact which must be assessed on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of the characteristics of the transactions involved. This condition, where present, allows the application to ancillary operations under the same VAT rules as for the main operation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u60	Senator Campari has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u61	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. This is a question of fair treatment, both for veterinary doctors and also for animal owners, to whom it is not right in fact to apply a double rate on medicinal products administered during veterinary treatment. In this case we refer to boxes of medicines that are opened to give them to the animal during the first treatment and which are then given to the patient. In this respect, we hope that there will be clarification on all veterinarians, so that we can go in the direction of separating the two things, so that there will no longer be an increase of this kind. Many veterinarians, in fact, do not have medicines already opened, because the box that use the damage directly to the owner of the animal and from this derives the impossibility of having boxes already used. We hope that the problem can be solved, because very often the owners of animals are precisely those people who belong to the weakest groups, those with less financial possibilities, such as the elderly who use them for company, children or children with problems that use pet therapy. Thank you and we hope that the problem will be resolved soon. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u62	Senator Pesco has the right to explain the question 3-01070 on the debit position of the health companies of the Lazio Region, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u63	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the Lazio Region, the regional health structure, the Court of Auditors noted that the consolidated health account of the Lazio Region is the only one in Italy that has a negative budget fund of -994 million euros at 31 December 2017 and that the resolution of this issue has already been requested since the first analysis of the 2011 balance sheet. In addition, while reaffirming the relevance of the issue and recalling that the 2016-2018 operational programme provided for its solution by 31 December 2017, the statement of the Commissioner's structure on the fact that the required activity should be concluded by the end of 2019. Where, at the end of this special audit programme, a portion of the non-covered fund is remaining, a regional regulatory intervention will have to be implemented for the financial coverage of the fund in order to determine its total zero. We are in the middle of 2019 and what is the Lazio Region doing about it? The Court of Auditors also points out that, with regard to the 2017 balance sheet, the interest paid by the regional health system represents the highest absolute value at national level, equal to 30% of the same, and the cost of outpatient medicine is the second highest figure in Italy. The current state of the reconnaissance of the perimeter of the fund of endowment, negative for almost a billion euros, is still in the initial state, consequently could be expected future financial criticalities from a premature exit of the Lazio Region from the Commissariat without a clear and exhaustive estimate on the liabilities of the fund of endowment. Meanwhile, the citizens of Lazio continue to suffer an increase in the additional regional Irpef, while the companies of the IRAP to compensate for the health deficit: in three words they pay more taxes. The Commissioner, as well as the President of the Region, states that the replenishment of the allocation fund is guaranteed through the cover of a risk fund. I think. However, that this aspect deserves further consideration, since so far, I do not know you, Minister, we do not know how much the fund currently amounts to risks; when it has been set up and for what risks; for what amount the Lazio Region intends to return this fund to the fund of endowment That said, Minister, what will be done with the commissioner currently carried out by the same Governor of the Lazio region contra legem, since the amendment of law n. 190 of 2014 expressly says that those who have institutional positions in the Region cannot do the commissioner ad acta? [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u64	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Tria, has the right to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u65	Mr President, in response to the reports of the interviewing senators, it is evident that, as part of the usual monitoring activities of the Lazio Region's Re-entry Plan and of the analysis of health accounts, the competent technical tables have indicated, starting from the examination of the 2011 balance sheet, the need to carry out a reconstruction of the causes that have generated a negative appreciation of the regional consolidated endowment fund and this precisely in order to provide for the resolution of the criticality reported. The stratification over time of such accounting has determined the need to define a methodology, including with the support of the accounting advisor, in order to analyse the registrations made by the individual companies and to define the most appropriate accounting treatment for the results of the analyses. The path is defined within the more general implementation path for the certification (PAC) of the budgets, also subject to specific compliance monitored by the competent technical tables. It is announced, in this regard, that next July 30 is convened a meeting of the technical tables of verification of the accounts of 2018 of the Lazio Region, within which is inserted, moreover, the assessment of the consolidated net worth, within the broader activity of monitoring of the state of implementation of the Regional Return Plan. We therefore await these findings. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Pesco to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u66	Mr Minister, our response is heartening, but at the same time it leaves us with the question of whether or not to get the health of Lazio out of the police station, a police station that is currently - I repeat - carried out against legem, given that the amendment to Law No 190 of 2014 provides for incompatibility in carrying out the task of regional governor and government commissioner. We have learned from press sources and reports from the various technical tables that health care in Lazio has managed, at least it seems, to improve on some fronts: reduction of mortality, reduction of the deficit, adaptation of the essential levels of assistance. We are happy, good news: we hope they are founded. However, Mr President, Minister, the situation remains in any case dramatic because of the budget fund which has a deficit of one billion and it has been certified that these are charges not paid by the administration, of liabilities. It should be recalled that the profit and loss account of public administrations, the balance of which is valid for European purposes, covers all public administrations (State, Regions, territorial authorities, social security and so on). The debt of the Regions becomes part of the total public debt. If these debts were to be faced with financial instruments with State burdens - if they were to - as is often the case in these situations, we would be able to respond directly to them. In addition to that, we also have a number of things in Lazio health which leave us very perplexed and which concern us with the possible financial implications, especially on the proper functioning of the regional health service. I am referring to the large number of closed hospital facilities, to the rampant growth of private health facilities, to the immense sale of public sanitary buildings, to the continuous and unstoppable growth of waiting lists (the Lazio Region is at the last places of the national ranking), not to mention the scarcity of prevention measures actually implemented, the chaos in the first aid, the continuous use of the instrument of externalizations (among the most important services, I think, for example, to the CUP service), the total absence of controls, the political appointments in which a party, in particular, has made school. Having said that, Minister, we think that sound and prudent consideration is needed in this respect before making such decisive choices for the health and pockets of citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u67	Senator Jacob has the right to explain the question 3-01068 on the bottom for the Africa Plan, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u68	Mr President, Minister, as has been reported by several press bodies, Alessandro Amadori, a consultant to the vice-president of the Council, Matteo Salvini, has been appointed to deal with a dossier on Africa, to which 500 million have been allocated. In an interview it was made clear that this would not be an Africa plan, but rather an Italian sovereign fund for Africa. Law No 125 of 2014 assigns political responsibility for development cooperation to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and Article 15 establishes an Interministerial Committee, chaired by the President of the Council of Ministers and composed of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the Deputy Minister for Development Cooperation and several ministers, with the task of ensuring the planning and coordination of all public cooperation activities and the coherence of national policies with the aim of development cooperation. The sovereign fund, as outlined by Alessandro Amadori, appears difficult to configure. If it is understood as a generalist tool, to structurally invest citizens' money in development projects, the instrument that can be used under Law No 125 of 2014 is the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS) with the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti in the role of Italian Bank for Development. This would create a duplication or a further actor, outside the institutional framework of general discipline on international development cooperation. A kind of cooperation of the Ministry of the Interior, therefore, operating without any passage at the Interministerial Committee provided for by Law No 125 of 2014. It is for this reason, Minister, that we ask you what your assessments of the facts are, if you do not believe that the creation of the sovereign fund for Africa is in open conflict with your political responsibilities in the field of development cooperation and what necessary and urgent initiatives you intend to take in order to ensure respect for ministerial competences in a matter of such important interest, also in light of the role of Italy in the processes of peace and development in Libya, in the Horn of Africa and in general in the area of the countries of West Africa. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Professor Moavero Milanesi, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u69	Mr President, as the honourable Member pointed out, the subject we are talking about - cooperation and development - is defined by Law No 125 of 2014 which assigns to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and - not by chance - international cooperation the task of pulling the strings and ensuring unity and consistency in the deliberations adopted by the appropriate interministerial committee for development cooperation that was mentioned. In this regard, I gave a large delegation to Deputy Minister Emanuela Del Re, who is working with the Directorate-General for Cooperation and Development of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation. Within the framework of the activities of these different entities and within the structure of the policy chain indicated, the structures operate in fruitful and continuous cooperation with other administrations. Any proposals are evaluated, where appropriate, in order to verify their consistency with the strategy drawn - therefore there is constant supervision of consistency by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, when appropriate, are addressed within the Interministerial Committee. Therefore, in this context, any initiative, and in particular any initiatives of Professor Amadori to which the Senator refers, can be examined and discussed and, where appropriate, submitted to the Interministerial Committee in which they will be evaluated on the merits and will give indications for possible follow-up. Nothing is different from this ordinary chain of normal administration and interlocation between government administrations.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u70	Senator Alfieri has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u71	Mr. Minister, nothing personal, but in fact you did not answer us and you proposed our question again. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I understand that Minister Salvini is elusive. Yesterday, we tried to have him somehow tell him what Savoini did in Moscow with him. President Conte himself said he didn't get an answer. So I guess it's hard for you too to understand why those EUR 500 million are decided outside of the programming you remembered as the holder, as responsible for development cooperation policies. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, we cannot go on because development cooperation is one of the main instruments of foreign policy: it must remain under its coordination and, to the limit, under that of the President of the Council of Ministers, who is the holder of the Interministerial Committee for Development Cooperation. I say this at the Italian level, because it is our interest that we can, in some way, make the most of our foreign policy. And I also say this at European level, because the 500 million in the Africa Fund are part of a programming that Europe is also doing on Africa. The development cooperation of the Ministry of the Interior is not possible. Here we are subverting all the traditional lines of foreign policy and also cooperation between the various ministries. So we can only declare ourselves dissatisfied with the answer. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u72	Senator Aimi has the right to explain the question 3-01069 on policies to combat irregular migration flows, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, whom I thank for your presence, Italy is in a rather particular situation and from a certain dramatic point of view: on the one hand, it is a prisoner of its geography, with the rich North and the poor South and in the middle of the Mediterranean; on the other, there is a utopia that is making its way, namely that Italy, although in these economic conditions, not of the best let us remember, can have a salvific function towards the earthly or, better still, the poverty of the whole earthly orbe. If we are to be honest also from the political point of view, we must point out that we must say thank you to the Minister of the Interior for having blocked or, in any case, slowed immigration with the closure of ports to NGOs. We are fully aware, however, that the landings continue because there are so-called ghosts. Thousands and thousands of people, of illegal immigrants, continue to arrive on the Italian coast, mainly on the shores of Sicily, on those of Calabria but also those of Puglia, because they leave from Turkey and Greece. Our borders are then vulnerable. This has been demonstrated by the Captain Fracassa of the patrol boats, Carola Raccke, who managed to break through our borders when, instead, our task, Minister, should be to protect them. We are also in a situation where, to be honest, more than people who are at risk of drowning, we are helping people who are being drowned. This too is something that we must take very carefully into account. So here we have an essential point: we cannot be the solvers of Africa's problems. In particular, there are 650 million Africans in poverty, many of whom aim to come here to Italy; Germany sends them back to us sedated and if it chooses them, Switzerland sends them back tied to us, France with the baton and Holland does not want to hear about it. In the question, Minister, I asked you what the state of affairs is with respect to the agreements with the countries from which these illegal immigrants leave and, again, how the Government intends to address the problem of Africa's economic and infrastructural growth, recalling what China has done. We will have the European Fund for Sustainable Development, that of the European Commission, the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European funds forming part of the long term investors club. Finally, I asked you about diplomatic relations with the rest of Europe in the field of immigration. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u74	The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Professor Moavero Milanesi, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u75	Mr President, the subject of migration is an extremely sensitive and sensitive subject, especially because we are faced with a phenomenon of unusual magnitude both as numbers and as an emotional and operational impact on the various national realities that have to do with it, both those of the countries that are left or crossed, and those of arrival. We think as a government that it is a question, precisely in view of this magnitude, of an eminently European character, also because these people seek, from their starting points, to reach Europe, not to reach an Italian, Spanish or Maltese coast, a Greek island and anything else. We have repeatedly brought this view to the attention of the various European fora, which - I must say - on the one hand is widely shared, on the other hand it does not translate into sufficiently sound or simply sufficient operational decisions. In particular, the European Treaties provide for the possibility of a migration policy, but the European legislation adopted concerns only asylum procedures, which concern, however, a limited number of migrants. In particular, we asked the Foreign Affairs Council on 15 July last, gathering around the table various consensus that we would now like to see translated into operational lines, four things: the first is that there are huge investments, such as those to which you referred, in the countries of origin and transit of migrants, but this means allocating the necessary sums in the European Union budget, which can be done in the course of the current discussion that is taking place for the years 2021 to 2027; the second is that there is a real contrast to the networks of traffickers along the whole line; the third is that we examine the possibility of anticipating in countries as close as possible to those of origin the examination of asylum applications, so that we can then bring in Europe, if necessary, the people who have the right to asylum or international protection through so-called humanitarian corridors, then make them travel out of the hands of the traffickers; the fourth, precisely with regard to the return agreements in the countries of origin, the so-called return agreements, whether there is negotiation, execution and assumption of the relative burdens always on the part of the European Union. There is much sharing around these ideas, we expect to move from political sharing to operational and regulatory facts.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u76	I call Senator Aimi to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u77	Minister, thank you for your kind reply, which leaves me - and I think I can also speak on behalf of my colleagues - partially dissatisfied. We believe that Europe, for the truth, does not prevent Italy from expelling migrants. I would like to remind you that nine out of ten of these are not in a position, from the point of view of legality, to remain on our territory. The contract we had with the League and the Brothers of Italy, with the center-right, provided for the expulsion of about 600,000 migrants. If we continue with this step, however, having to remain adherent to the numbers - and mathematics is not an opinion - I see that the vicious left-wing government with Minister Minniti had arrived at the expulsion of about 18 irregular immigrants every day, today we are at the number of 13 and if we were to get to the numbers we had in our project we would take one hundred and twenty years; it seems to me that this time is not at our disposal and not even of the others. So we have some concerns. With regard to reception, Pope Francis also urges us to welcome him, but within the limits - of course we must also remember him - of the real and effective capacities that a State has to accept. Senator Cangini some time ago, when he was director of the National Newspaper, had made an investigation and had pointed out that more than one immigrant in three is not available to integrate - this is a serious problem - because he considers religious law absolutely superior to that of the State. Therefore, we should choose them, as Germany does, and, as Cardinal Biffi said, also in cultural and valuable harmony. I conclude with the words of another Holy Father, Pope Ratzinger, who said that there is also another right: the right not to emigrate. We believe that these are the principles that we should take into absolute consideration, because Italy, as I said at the beginning, is in these dramatic conditions both from a geographical point of view and because of the problems that we have highlighted of a political nature. I believe, therefore, that we should go in that direction and have an organic project also in the field of return, because the Italians want to live in conditions - let me say this - also of security. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u78	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u81	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech concerns the failure to activate the tourist medical guard service on the island of Ischia. We know the tourist medical guard service of the various resorts is activated during the summer period and is aimed at non-resident citizens temporarily domiciled because on vacation. It provides outpatient and home medical services and prescriptions of medications for chronic or acute therapies. The failure to activate the tourist medical guard service on the island of Ischia is a serious act that violates the right to health of the tourists present on the island and, at the same time, offers them a bad image of Ischia, risking drastically reducing the tourist attraction of the island. I would like to remind you that the service is mainly used by those groups of tourists who famously go there to take advantage of the famous thermal baths and which constitute the hard core of island tourism. We need a rapid response from the institutions. This situation is the logical consequence of the halving of the number of doctors used for the performance of the tourist medical guard service, which took place by resolution n. 868 of 3 July 2019 of the general manager of ASL Naples 2 North, on indication from the summits of the Campania Region. Therefore, this reduction has in fact made the work, already burdensome, much more stressful for the remaining doctors in charge. On 9 July, by way of JEP, the latter informed the mayors and regional institutions that they did not want to accept the task assigned to them. This situation, in fact, would lead to a breakdown of the benefits provided, a deterioration of the professional activity and of the medical-patient relationship, without considering the danger both for the user, who would be forced to endless queues, and for the safety of the same health workers, given the sad episodes of aggression constantly reported from the news. It is a priority to activate, as soon as possible, the indispensable service of the Tourist Medical Guard, in order to ensure the right to health of island tourists enshrined in Article 32 of the Constitution, to restore the right of doctors to safety at work and to restore strength to the tourist vocation and the culture of hospitality that has always characterized Ischia and its inhabitants. Without the timely and appropriate measures, an important part of the Ischia economy will pay the logical consequences and the responsibility will be solely and exclusively of the regional summits that manage the health of Campania. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u84	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, we all receive requests for help, requests to give voice to problematic situations; it happened to me, too, with a person unknown to me. I have paid attention to the facts and I want to give a voice to this citizen, who for 72 grams of marijuana was detained and then brought to house arrest. At that time the wife was hospitalized and he filed an application to visit her but got no answer from the magistrate; meanwhile the wife died. Things continue to get worse for those who have already been wronged: last year the mother passed away. He gets an instance to go on 4 or 5 July to the funerals and to follow everything there is to do, but they go to pick him up on 7 July. The citizen is called Salvatore Proietto and was incarcerated at the beginning in the Catania prison Piazza Lanza. It is not the only one, I believe that many of these injustices - this is a symbol - occur. These citizens need a voice (this is one of many). I will make it clear what happened, but I hope that the whole House will take action to ensure that such incidents do not occur again. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u87	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, today I would like to talk about investigative journalists. Journalism of inquiry endangers its safety in the name of information. There is no convenience in these cases: there are reporters who believe in their work, often underpaid and subject to angeries. What happened to the journalist Nello Trocchia is emblematic for the whole category, even for those less known, but that for a few euros they hunt for uncomfortable truths for all the powerful. In 2016 there was the answer from the Minister of the Interior of the last legislature to a question that concerned an intimidation masked by attempted theft against journalist Trocchia. In that place there was the reassurance that, through the prefecture of Naples, the controls to protect the journalist and his family would be reinforced. In the last two years, however, similar events have continued to occur in the vicinity of his home and that of his parents, a clear sign that there is no effectiveness in safeguards. The last episode took place between the 16th and the 17th of July in his house in Naples, which had to be watched - evidently it was not so - and were stolen a PC with documents related to his investigations and a cell phone of a few euros (which makes us understand that, in reality, it was probably not a theft). If this instability concerns him who is quite famous, let alone what can happen to all that army of reporters who live in the shadows, but which represents a real public service for the citizens, when not even for the prosecutors who draw from their investigations to fight crime. In this regard, I have tabled this week the question 4-02003, signed cross-border by various colleagues from both the Movimento and other political forces, to which I expect a prompt, timely and very rapid response from the Minister of the Interior to protect this category of people who do such important information for our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u88	The Presidency will, as always, send out the questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u91	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, in 1988 I had the chance to participate in the foundation of 'Avvenimenti', a weekly directed by Claudio Fracassi, who, with his inquiries into the 'Milan to drink', the truths hidden by the partycracy, the incestuous links between politics and business with the bribe erected in a system, was a forerunner of clean hands. Francesco Saverio Borrelli was not only the man of "resisting" against the crumbling and shipwreck of civic conscience and the sense of law, but also the one who, in the footsteps of Piero Calamandrei, was convinced that the magistrate had the role of "scudo" of legality, in which he always believed and who pursued rigorously throughout his career. "Anyone holding a power does not willingly agree to be brought to trial. For this reason, the survival of an independent judiciary is important, he said when he was attacked for his role as head of the Milan Public Prosecutor in the investigations on Tangentopoli. And again: It is not the judiciary that has to take a step backwards; it is policy that has to take three or four steps forward. Without prevaricating ourselves, possibly without tying our hands. With his disappearance, Borrelli leaves a great void in the Italian judiciary, made even more evident by the serious and recent scandals that have shaken the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which adds to a deep pain for the loss of who for almost half a century has been one of the protagonists of the judicial history - and not only - of our country and who has not spared himself to defend the togae, its prosecutors, their independence. Borrelli, who embodied the essence of the magistrate, of those who made himself available to the State and the community, making the search for truth a banner, was also a man of culture. He argued that it was necessary before all things to be good citizens, that education and knowledge were necessary steps to be able to aspire to the status of good citizens: "Justice lives in much of the oxygen that comes from the cooperation of the citizens," he said. Borrelli was a kind, humble, compassionate man, the one who was lost. He loved beauty, music, freedom with a secular approach to the things of the world and, even, to what directly concerned him. At the end of his career he came to say: I apologize for the disaster followed by Clean Hands. It wasn't worth blowing up the previous world to fall into the current world. During an interview he revealed: When words are important I usually repeat them three times. And so it happened. It was January 12, 2002. Borrelli closed his inaugural report of the judicial year saying: The faults of a dangerous crumbling of the general will, to the shipwreck of the civic consciousness in the loss of the sense of law, the last extreme bulwark of the moral question, is the duty of the community to resist, resist, resist, as on an indispensable line of the Piave. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator D'Alfonso]] Borrelli will miss much the critical conscience of a country still devoured by lawlessness, in the first places for corruption, among the last for freedom of the press. In the immoral age of social inequalities and justice often unjust to poor people, I am honored to remember him in this Senate Chamber as a magistrate and as a man. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator D'Alfonso]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u92	Senator Lannotti, thank you for your memory.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u95	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I wanted to highlight, through this office and your person, the infrastructure funding priorities for Abruzzo railwayisation. There are some colleagues in my region who are in the same way fighting argumentatively to assert these priorities, which have a specific one: they even have financial resources in their belly and on the table. We need to activate the design by RFI, which, among other things, has at its top one of the best managers not only at the national level: I am talking about the engineer Gentile. The Pescara-Chieti has 111 million euros for the doubling of the railway, which means: speed, safety and comfort. Sulmona-l'Aquila-Rieti-Terni has 75 million euros for electrification. Pescara-Rome, as a large infrastructure investment, has in its belly as ready cash resources in public accounting 10 million euros for executive design and 1,566 billion euros for the RFI-MIT program contract. It is a matter of making a choice, which some colleagues know as well as I do, of two elective zones: the Pescara-Sulmona and the Avezzano-Rome. And then we have another important work referred to the port of Vasto: the last railway mile of the port of Vasto, which is the only port with industrial capacity, has 15 million euros that must be designed and cantiered. Last but not least, the CIPE has given us as a region of 10 million euros to complete the railwayization of the Quadri-Castel of Sangro. Cardinal Martini spoke of immorality with respect to public works. One is immoral when a public work begins and does not complete; when a public work begins, completes and does not put itself into practice; when a public work begins, completes, puts itself into practice and does not do maintenance. We have the resources here, it's about executive planning and control. The intervention of a representative of the people, who is also shared by other representatives, serves to establish a priorityization: politics has a soul, if it takes the priorities. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u98	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I am putting a question in these minutes, which is topical and urgent in substance, although perhaps not from the point of view of parliamentary dynamics. Several newspapers have published, already yesterday the other and then today with further details, the news according to which the connection of the Mahan Air airline, between Rome and Tehran, is opened, which is added to what was already operating between Milan Malpensa and Tehran: this is clearly a real fact, because it is enough to consult the airport timetables. This company, Mahan Air, has been accused by the U.S. State Department, since 2011, of supporting terrorism, of transporting prohibited technologies, including nuclear weapons technology and of transporting troops and weapons, both in Syria and Lebanon, to the pro-Iranian militias Hezbollah, whose leader has publicly declared that all their thousands of missiles, which they have in store to be used against the Israeli civilian population, are of Iranian origin. So, obviously, somewhere they pass and according to the U.S. State Department they pass right through Mahan Air, which is hit by U.S. sanctions. In fact, the U.S. Treasury Department has confirmed that the collaboration with some subjects, among them Mahan Air, involves the risk of sanctions for all those who collaborate with you and what better collaboration than to establish a stable connection, in this case with our country? I believe that the Government must take the problem seriously and therefore I have asked both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u99	Senator Malan, we will be bearers of your petition.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u100	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-138.ana.u101	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 30 July, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.58 p.m.
