ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u2	President. - The next item is the report (Doc. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u3	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u4	The next item is the communication by the President, pursuant to Rule 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 1312: Delegations to the Government for the reorganization of the discipline in the matter of entertainment and for the modification of the code of cultural goods and landscape, connected to the maneuver of public finance. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion given - after hearing the Government - by the 5th Permanent Commission, pursuant to Article 126- bis, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, in relation to the aforementioned bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u5	The Economic Planning Commission, budget, examined the bill in title, pursuant to and for the effects of article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, and after consulting the representative of the Government, notes that the deadline of 31 January indicated by article 7, paragraph 2, letter, f), of the law n. 196 of 2009, for the presentation of the measures related to the maneuver of public finance, has not been respected, as the bill in title is submitted to the presidency of the Senate on 29 May last, but that the said term, however, on the basis of numerous precedents, can be considered as authorising. It therefore notes that the draft law, which is divided into two provisions with delegation in the field of entertainment and delegation in the field of cultural heritage and landscape, corresponds to the one indicated in the Update Note of the DEF 2018. These provisions are consistent with the programmatic objectives indicated in the above Update Note, which recalls, as part of the government's reform strategy, the adoption of actions for the rehabilitation of lyric-symphonic foundations and the improvement of the criteria for the allocation of resources, in particular for the live performance, also providing for the revision of the Code of Cultural Heritage and Landscape, also to improve the ability to enhance and mobilize the vocations of the territories. The provisions also appear to be in conformity with the content of those connected to the public finance maneuver, as governed by Article 10 (6) of the Accounting Act.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u6	Taking into account the opinion expressed by the 5th Permanent Commission, examined the related bill n. 1312, pursuant to article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, taken note of the position of the Government, I inform you that the text of the measure in question does not contain provisions unrelated to its object, as defined by the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u7	The next item is the communication by the President, pursuant to Rule 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 1349: "Delegates to the Government for simplification and codification in the fields of education, universities, high artistic training in music and choreutics and research" related to the maneuvering of public finances. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion given - after hearing the Government - by the 5th Permanent Commission, pursuant to Article 126- bis, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, in relation to the aforementioned bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u8	The Economic Planning Commission, budget, examined the bill in title, pursuant to and for the effects of article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, and after consulting the representative of the Government, notes that the deadline of 31 January indicated by article 7, paragraph 2, letter f), of the law n. 196 of 2009, for the presentation of the measures related to the maneuver of public finance, has not been respected, as the bill in title is submitted to the presidency of the Senate on 19 June, but that the aforementioned term, however, on the basis of numerous precedents, can be considered as authorising. It therefore notes that the draft law, which is divided into two provisions with, respectively, the principles and guiding criteria of the delegation and the financial provisions, is substantially corresponding to that set out in the 2018 DEF Update Note. These provisions are consistent with the policy objectives set out in the above Update Note, which highlights, as part of the government's reform strategy, how the complex legislation on school, university, research and AFAM legislation also needs to be reordered through the drafting of the relevant codes. The provisions also appear to be in conformity with the content of those connected to the public finance maneuver, as governed by Article 10 (6) of the Accounting Act.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u9	Taking into account the opinion expressed by the 5th Permanent Commission, examined the related bill No. 1349, pursuant to Article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, taken note of the position of the Government, I inform you that the text of the measure in question does not contain provisions unrelated to its object, as defined by the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u10	The next item is the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 214-515-805-B, which was first approved by the Senate in a text resulting from the unification of the own-initiative constitutional bill of Senators Quagliariello; Mr Calderoli and Mr Perilli; Mr Patuanelli and Mr Romeo; approved, without amendment, in first deliberation, by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, in the second resolution, the draft constitutional law, after the general discussion, will be submitted only to the final vote for approval as a whole, subject to explanations of vote. I also warn that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution, in second resolution, the constitutional bill will be approved if in the final vote it obtains the vote in favour of the absolute majority of the members of the Senate. The rapporteur, Senator Calderoli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u11	Mr President, at the second reading by the Senate, the written report is not allowed, so I shall have to carry out the oral report, but I will refer to what I said in reply and explanation of vote at first reading. On 9 May last, the House of Deputies adopted the draft law at first reading, which is finally making the prospect of a substantial reduction in the number of Members concrete. Since no changes have been made to the clearly valid work carried out in the Senate, we are now in a position to arrive quickly at the second resolution required by Article 138 of our fundamental Charter. It is a resolution which, while leaving no room for any amendment, nevertheless requires a clear majority for its validity. It is a parliamentary passage of reflection, even before it is a decision: it is precisely for this reason that I think it is useful to take advantage of it, to reflect on the reasons behind this reform, of which we will now see the contents. The draft law amends Articles 56, 57 and 59 of the Constitution with regard to the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. The proposal provides for a reduction in the number of Members from 630 to 400, of whom eight were elected abroad instead of 12 in the past; the elected senators will go from 315 to 200, four of whom will be elected abroad instead of the six planned in the past, and the maximum number of senators for life is set at five. I'd like to leave with a little historical excursion. First of all, we must be aware that we are not intervening on provisions written by the constituent Fathers, but by colleagues who preceded us in this and in the other Parliamentary Assembly in the third legislature. The original wording of Articles 56 and 57 provided, in fact, for a variable number of deputies and senators according to the population: one for every 80,000 inhabitants in the House and one for every 200,000 in the Senate, and so it was for the first fifteen years. Later, as the population grew and the number of parliamentarians with it, it was decided to change the criterion by introducing the fixed number of 630 Members and 315 Senators. In the near future there was an increase: the Members who voted on the reform in 1963 were 596, against the 574 in 1948; in the perspective, however, the savings were evident, because without this intervention, on the basis of the 2011 census, we would have 743 Members today (also because the calculation must be done on the basis of the population, that is residents, so not only of Italian citizens). In the Senate, however, things would be a little better, because, applying the original system, today we would be 297, in addition of course to the senators for life; in 1963, instead, there were only 279: to some extent, therefore, we are going back to the origins of our Republic, if not in the norms, at least in the numbers. Even if we wanted to retrace the statutory experience, we would find some variability both in the composition of the elective Chamber - since the Statute did not provide for the number of Members who, at a certain point, stood at around 500 - and especially in that of the Upper Chamber, who, thanks to the "infancy" of senators - who, as we know, were all for life - gradually passed from the 58 members of 1848 to the well 520 of 1940. At the constituent assembly the issue was widely debated and, precisely because a fixed figure was never taken into account, there was the serious concern that, when the population grew, the number of parliamentarians could become excessive, with particular reference to that of the senators. In fact, it was believed that a smaller number had to correspond to a higher quality of the elected: I remember that Constantine Mortati had proposed a senator for every 250,000 inhabitants, which today would mean a much closer figure to 200 than to 315. The solution of the Constituents had a short life, as well as the 1963 reform, if not in the legal reality, for sure in the political debate: Commissione Bozzi, Commissione D'Alema, reform of the sixteenth legislature, draft Violante, reform of the seventeenth legislature; in all these texts, and they are not the only ones, a reduction in the number of parliamentarians was expected. We must remember, in fact, that since in Italy both rooms are directly elected, no other great democratic country has a proportion of the population and parliamentarians like ours. Simply put, Italy is the country with the highest number of MPs directly elected by the people (945): they follow Germany, with about 700; Great Britain, with 650; and France, with just under 600. Therefore, 400 Members and 200 Senators, or 600 Members in total, is a reasonable solution, which aligns us with Western democracies. Even if we do not reach the United States' relationship, we will, however, be at the level of the United Kingdom or France, which, with a population similar to ours, have only one House elected by universal and direct suffrage, with a little more and a little less than 600 members respectively. Above all, we will have parliamentary institutions which, without affecting the principle of broad representativeness, will ipso facto be more functional. For this to express its full potential, we will have to reform the Regulations again, which in the Senate will not be difficult, because it has just been done successfully. The new numbers - yes - will impose the necessary technical adaptations, but they will also have to be the opportunity to go further and make the organization and procedures more fluid. Only in this way will spending savings become appreciable in terms of decision-making and lead to a return of confidence and credibility. In these months, then, the issue of the compatibility of this reform with the electoral law has also been brilliantly resolved: in fact, the law of 27 May 2019, n. 51, which allows its applicability regardless of the number of elected, has been definitively approved in the House. Last but not least, I recall the novel text of Article 59 of the Constitution, aimed at definitively fixing the number of senators for life, without any margin of interpretation. As happened in the first examination of the Senate and later in the Chamber, there was much debate in this passage on the need for an overall revision of the Constitution: I'm sorry, but I don't fall for it anymore, I tried it on my own skin. All the various Commissions I mentioned earlier, as well as the 2005 reform (the one written by myself) and the subsequent one in 2016 (the Boschi) were not even able to reach the parliamentary examination or, even if approved by Parliament, they were then rejected by popular referendum. Today I am even more convinced of the need to propose limited and surgical measures, such as the one we are examining today, which, together, will lead to an overall reform. I would like to point out, in this connection, that just last week the proposal tabled by myself and my colleague, Mr Perilli, for whom I was rapporteur, which led to the deletion of Article 99 of the Constitution and the consequent abolition of the CNEL, was approved. The measure was implemented by the unanimous vote of the Commission. Returning to us, there was a large majority in favour of this bill in the first resolution in the Senate: an absolute majority that, however, if we go to add all the Groups that have declared themselves in favour, reached virtually only two thirds. I can only hope that this time the two-thirds will actually reach each other and I hope that there will be a rethinking of the first step on the part of some of the groups that had expressed themselves negatively in the Commission and that there can be convergence here: no one - I believe - will propose a confirmed referendum on a reform so shared by the public and it would be an important signal if Parliament finally approved the most recurrent constitutional revision in our public debate. The aim of this reform is twofold: on the one hand, to encourage an improvement in the decision-making proposals of the Chambers, in order to make them more capable of responding to the needs of citizens, and, on the other hand, to achieve a reduction in public expenditure, i.e. leaner bodies, which cost less and work more efficiently. Mr President, I should like to end by reminding you of the fact that lean horse runs faster and jumps higher. With this change, Parliament will be stronger and so will our democracy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u12	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u13	Mr President, I would like to say that I will speak on the specific issue of the foreign constituency, which I am honoured to represent in this House, and on the effects that this reform would have on this specific representation of the interests of Italians abroad. I want to point out to this Assembly, once again, a phenomenon very little known by the Italian media: in the face of some migrations to our country, there has been for about fifteen years a real migratory explosion coming out of our country, which has led to an increase in the registration of Italians living abroad (AIRE) who have now almost 5.5 million members. We are therefore talking about 10% of the Italian population and we have repeatedly demonstrated in this House that in the official data of the authorities of the countries in which so many Italians reside this figure is underestimated and in fact there are many more. So we are talking about 10% of the Italian population living abroad, Italian citizens with political rights deriving from Italian citizenship, but residing abroad. They did it not by choice, but by compulsion, like their fathers and grandparents, who were forced to go abroad to find a better way of life. The exceptionality of Italian emigration, which has been going to all the countries of the world for over two centuries, has had an institutional recognition in these classrooms with the establishment of the foreign constituency. It is therefore a recognition of political rights finally intervened in the years 2000 and 2001 with two laws of reform of the Constitution, which gave a specific representation to this audience. Faced with a demographic decline in this country - which the rapporteur has forgotten to consider, but in Italy the population is falling - there is an explosion of members of the AIRE: the proportionality, which is extremely discriminatory, between representatives in the Parliament of the foreign constituency and the audience of Italians abroad is therefore worsening from day to day. At the end of this day, a few hundred Italians enrolled in AIRE who abandoned this country, according to the reform under discussion, will not have the opportunity to have representatives in the institutions. In fact, the linear cut of 33% is applied to the audience of representatives of the foreign constituency, already extremely discriminated against, and the numbers quoted for Italy are completely different from those that we Italians have abroad. I also imagine that we six senators elected abroad will vote in favour of this reform, while respecting those who voted for it, and we represent at least a triple audience of those who represent our colleagues in Italy. The cut intervenes on an already very discriminatory number, which would become almost double, with effects on the different divisions, in particular in Europe, where there are 3.1 million Italians, who would have a representative to the Senate of the Republic. The nice proposal, made by some thinkers of the Movimento 5 Stars, to draw the parliamentary representatives perhaps could be useful. It would therefore be appropriate to draw by lot a representative in this Assembly - which is not made up of nominated but elected - which would represent 3.1 million Italians (a number that will continue to increase), who have the same citizenship rights as all other Italian citizens, but are abroad. Otherwise, the only effect will be the election of the richest, because in front of such an audience an electoral campaign can only be undertaken by someone who has enormous resources. I therefore challenge you to show us the economic effects and benefits of this reform compared to the linear cut on the foreign constituency: two fewer places. I don't really feel like you guys can brag about something like that. There is no effect in terms of the efficiency of Parliament's work, on the contrary, it is lost. The political effect, on which you will really have to recognize some coherence, is to take away from the representation of Italians abroad any capacity for action: it is a political effect that this majority - alas - is trying to impress on the work of this legislature from the start and is succeeding with some effectiveness. You have abolished the Committee on the Issues of Italians Abroad, the only institution present in this branch of Parliament dedicated to Italians Abroad, which was in force by three legislatures. It is an absolute shame that this House and this majority have decided to cancel the legacy of the Committee's work on the issues of Italians abroad by three legislatures, replacing it with a survey of the phenomenon of Italians abroad, which has not yet started. I dare you to imagine that in your territories someone comes to tell you that representing 10% of the population, instead of the parliamentary representatives and the committees in which these interests are discussed, you think you will undertake a cognitive investigation. Let's do a cognitive survey of Sicilians or bells, which are still 5 and a half million people, like Italians abroad: it is shameful, but very consistent with your political plan, which is clear; that is, to take away their political rights from Italian citizens living abroad. I would also like to point out to you and the rapporteur that, in the devastating fury of this draft, you have incurred a bad mistake, as we have already said in the debate during the first part-session here in the Senate and also in an explanation of vote, a vote which on our part has always been consistently opposed. You have violated the principles which inform the Italian constitutional order: the principle of democratic representation, the principle of equality between citizens, the principle of reasonableness of rules and the principle of proportionality between means and end of representation. I have mentioned four cardinal principles with respect to the Italian Constitution since the time of the constituents - if we want to mark a difference, as well as a rapporteur, between the constituents and subsequent legislators, even if there is no law - that inform the supervisory activity of the Constitutional Court, which we will try to address. Similarly, we will bring to the attention of the maximum guarantor of the Italian institutional order and of the principles which inform him, namely the President of the Republic, the obvious violation committed against the foreign constituency with such a cut (four senators and eight MPs representing 10% of the population). I would point out to you that the Italian Constitution and legal order do not discriminate against citizens on the basis of race and religion, but also on the basis of residence. This is therefore a clear violation of three or four general principles of the Italian constitutional order, which we will enforce, and this plan for the destruction of the political rights of Italians abroad that you are pursuing will not go to the end. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u15	Mr President, I have already expressed the orientation of our Group and what I think in particular of this spot reform proposed to us in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, since I was unable to take part in the debate that took place at first reading here in the Senate a few months ago. Yes, it is true that the Forza Italia Group, at first reading, voted in favour of this reduction and this linear cut by Members of Parliament (deputees and senators), in an incisive way, of about 37%. It was said, however, that that vote was a form of openness of credit to the present majority which proposed it, because it was clear and logical that, as it was proposed, a simple linear cut of the parliamentarians, not accompanied by a structural and harmonious reform of our Constitution, not only did not make sense, but would result in failures and damage, perhaps even irreversible. Such a reform would certainly produce them if it were finally adopted. Well, that opening of credit has gone and I am sorry to disappoint Mr Calderoli, who was hoping for a reconsideration, because it was we who wanted it, dear colleague. Frankly, in spite of a climbing on the mirrors even a little' watered down, I see no other purpose in this populist provision than to continue to nourish, with Jacobine attitude, the feeling of anti-politics that snakes in the population and that paradoxically some politicians feed. It's like saying, let's hurt ourselves, with an obviously self-harmful attitude. It is like saying that politicians are hurting their jobs, we are too many in Parliament - even if we are 60 million inhabitants - and since 1948 everyone else has been wrong: we are good and we have understood that in four cats we can do better, even if then maybe a single college will contain a million voters. Imagine, then, what logic the majority system would have, which should bring the electorate closer to the elected one, with one million inhabitants per single-member college. Forza Italia is deeply disappointed by the attitude that this majority intended to pursue in such terms. I must say that we are not opposed on principle to reducing the number of Members. I do not say that in terms of merely auspiciousness. Forza Italia, together with the Northern League - said Mr Calderoli himself who subscribed to that measure and then changed his mind over the years - and to the National Alliance - and I therefore address my colleagues in the Brothers of Italy - subscribed to a comprehensive and harmonious reform that provided, of course, the principles of the so-called check and balance, that is, a balance such that within our Constitutional Charter the powers were balanced among themselves, such as - for example - the legislative power with respect to the executive one. That reform was launched in 2005 and signed by my colleague Calderoli as well as by Senator Pastor of Forza Italia and others, if I remember not badly also by Senator La Russa. That reform, Mr President, said completely different things than what the measure says in our examination. I'm glad you're nodding, ma'am. That reform provided - and I tell you this because it is right for it to remain in the proceedings - for a reduction of senators and MPs: from 630 to 518 Members and from 315 to 252 senators; it therefore provided for a significant reduction, and not as marked as the one under consideration, based on principles and criteria which were to safeguard the establishment of balances, avoiding distortions between the various powers of the State. It was expected, for example - I remember it at the North League, because at the time it was called the North League - that the second Chamber, which remained in its place, namely the Senate, became the Federal Senate, in the sense that it would have to deal with issues relating to local authorities and regions; You're afraid that since the birth of the North League, they've been at the heart of that political movement. Well, this is a commercial measure - I would like to stress the commercials - proposed by this majority, which wants to approve it quickly and furiously. Just think about how Mr La Russa was treated in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. For the sole reason that he asked for a 48-hour delay, he was mistreated. And that postponement requested would not have changed the timetable at all, because in any case we would have arrived here today to discuss the measure. Not even that: parliamentary practice is also changed by the current majority. We take note of this, and Mr La Russa will also take note of it, who has suffered a small procedural scorn in the parliamentary reports. What's the rush? To approve in haste and fury what? A simple linear cut in the number of parliamentarians, without changing - and that is the point - the structure of our State, without changing our Constitutional Charter in a harmonious way. Colleagues, then it's only fair to know that at least Senator Pagano will never sign a populist stuff that only feeds anti-politics. I am proud to be a representative of the voters of my region. I am proud to be here to represent a piece of our country's history and I do not intend to pick up the cornerstones, the pillars of our Constitution, designed by people far more prepared than we, who came from the Second World War, who had suffered and had the skills, skills and knowledge that we here unfortunately - I am sorry to say - dream about ourselves. Those people we're mistreating to do what? To speed up legislative activity? To improve the quality and the legislative product of the Italian Parliament? No, gentlemen, it is the exact opposite: to make it worse and create serious distortions in the balance between powers, making the executive power much stronger and Parliament useless. At this point, given, among other things, that this absurd reform of the reduction of the number of parliamentarians is also associated with another reform - in some ways it can be even worse qualified - on the proposed referendum, which throws another hammer at the foundations of our Constitution and especially our principles of representative democracy, it is absolutely useless for the Italians to vote, because so much those who will be voted and elected to represent them will no longer have any power. Mr President La Russa, you who are chairing - and I regret this today - a dark page, very bad in the history of the Italian Parliament, and anyone who is following us know - and remains on the Reports of this House - that Senator Pagano di Forza Italia declares that he is absolutely opposed to the terrible massacre launched at the foundations of the State and the principles that establish the contrast between the distortions between its various powers. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u16	Senator Pagano, thank you for the many quotations you have made, for which I am particularly grateful, whatever they may be.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u17	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u18	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today's issue is one that intercepts, in some way drugged public opinion, a consensus that is all too easy; it is part of that anti-political attitude on which for a long time, in different situations and circumstances, not only some parties but also a number of significant members of the public are insisting. The logic that presupposes consensus on the drastic reduction in the number of Members of Parliament is the great doubt that arises on one point: what are so many politicians for? What are so many Members for? And the reflection on the exclusive - let me use the term - in the event of a quantity seems to somehow cancel out all the other factors - and I would also say other values - which define the quality and presence of Members of Parliament. What could have led to the dark feeling that Members actually do little good? One that I believe can and should be denounced also in this legislature is objectively the systematic substitution of parliamentary work, and therefore of that work done by the legislative power that is never self-referential, because it unfolds in the deep dialogue with the social components. None of us would ever write a bill without having first intercepted sensitivity and understand the doubts, needs and labors on which it somehow falls. Our main work in this House and in the Commissions is only the head of the iceberg of a much deeper, more widespread and more widespread work carried out on the territories, sometimes geographical, sometimes cultural, sometimes professional. Much of our work is precisely to rebuild that relationship of trust between the institutions - in this sense Parliament is perhaps the highest of the institutions - and so-called civil society. In this context, the idea that legislative work is systematically bypassed by what we call the trend in progress of the decree of urgency is certainly not helpful in identifying the effective and in some way unique interlocutor in Parliament to bring within Parliament's classrooms, in the form of a legislative instrument, the demands of a changing society, which calls for constant and continuous adjustments, but always and above all of the answers. Devalue the work of the Member of Parliament becomes the easiest alibi to demand its reduction. When we put the issue of reducing the number, therefore, the basic question is what a Member of Parliament needs, how can one value its contribution? Historically speaking, when an institutional architecture was established, the parliamentarians were given competence and the parliamentary dialectic - to put it simply - between majority and opposition was attributed to the true salt of democracy. It is no longer important to be in the majority or in some way it cannot be considered devalued to be in opposition, because it is precisely in a strong and meaningful dialectic that the designs of law that intercept more and better the needs of the country take shape intelligently. But, for this to be given, there is a need for a positive dialectic not only between majority and opposition, but also within the majority and the same opposition. In other words, there is a need for that pluralism of ideas which is the only guarantee, so that in fact what is a bill that has in some way the greatest possible degree of truth, effectiveness and efficiency can be approved. Now, as part of a reduction in the number of Members, even within the Groups, what is called the dominant thinking prevails. By definition, the majority - otherwise it would no longer be a majority and, among other things, in the Senate there is no instance that recognizes that proportional right present in the House to present drafts of law and to be rapporteurs; we know that the Rules of Procedure of the Senate do not provide and does not allow this - in the Senate practically presents a draft law, discusses it in the Commission, approves the amendments, makes the final report, votes the mandate to the rapporteur, takes it to the Chamber and approves it. If the majority is small, if it reduces its point of interest in the same number of parliamentarians, inevitably that political group will tend to select the single thought, that is to say, it will tend to select what we have experienced as the greatest risk of democracy, which is the attitude of complacency towards those who govern the Group, those who govern the party, those who govern that situation. The less pluralism there is, the less pluralism there will be, not only in Parliament, but also within the Groups. I'm not saying anything to the President, the members of the government and our colleagues. Before that, Mr Fantetti made a very profound, careful and acute analysis of the Group of Members elected abroad. I could say something similar with regard to that tiny group - we are not even a group - made up of us, Members of the UDC. We live, work and network together with our colleagues from Forza Italia. It would be very easy to delete this Group, but to do so, in such a logic, would also mean to erase a historical memory; it would mean to erase the power of a symbol and a historical line that have crossed the life of our Republic over the last seventy years. Attention to minorities is something that defines the high quality of a democracy. As we all know, the power of a chain is measured by the strength of its weakest link. The power of a Parliament is measured by the quality of respect for its minorities. The cut is clean, and I would say even openeristic. Are you 600? All right, you're 400. Are you 300 and more? All right, it's 200. According to what logic does the number decrease? What's the reason? Is it efficiency? Colleagues, you have to be careful. This is a historic moment in which we are all trying to subtract the internal democracy of the parties from the logic of the boss I do everything, to bring it back in a context in which the internal democracy of the party is the one that makes opinion and culture and guarantees the representativeness of the points of view. In this way, we will end up creating a Parliament that is not only elected - that is what we like - but also very faithful. And the smaller the margin, the more the requirement will be that of fidelity. We are living in a culture that - we all know - is that of individual rights, in which everyone cultivates the richness of opinions and confronts the power of nuances. I believe that reducing all this, in order to bring it back to false efficiency, would be a very serious injury not only to the quantity but also to the democratic quality of Parliament and would remove one of its most beautiful prerogatives, which is the personal freedom of parliamentarians to express themselves in science and conscience - yes - as provided for in the Constitution. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u20	Mr President, there has been a great deal of talk about the cut in the number of Members, not always with due serenity. I shall try, therefore, to make a brief, clear and simple account, not of the content of the constitutional law that this House is preparing to approve, but of why it is right and necessary to approve it. I believe that, with regard to the much feared vulnus of representativeness, the real problem is not the quantum, but the quis and the quomodo, that is, the who represents and how the citizens are represented. Ladies and gentlemen, the idea of representativeness cannot be dissociated from that of responsibility, as it cannot be completely detached from the interest represented. And here's the thing. Is the democratically pursued interest really that of the nation? Or is it more and more of the power groups represented in Parliament? The real objective is to ensure that democratic participation is effective and, in order to be effective, the problem is not numbers; the problem is to bring the sceptre back into the hands of the citizen. It is not an attempt at democracy, therefore, as someone wants us to believe, because the real problem of modern democracies is not the number of elected people, but the space within which each citizen can exercise his sovereignty. The reduction in the number of parliamentarians - as long supported by the 5 Star Movement - must necessarily be accompanied by the strengthening of direct democracy, in a flexible system that allows a widespread and close exercise of sovereignty. It is clear that today there is a wide gap between the demands of an increasingly evolving society and the times of political representation, of the democratic process proper, which testifies to the senescence of representative democracy. It is therefore necessary to reconstruct the geography of power that underlies democratic institutions and reflects the structure of our society. It is necessary to understand whether and to what extent a plurality of representatives allows a good democratic dynamic. Perhaps we should all look with less scepticism at this process of renewal of democracy, so that the democratic mechanism does not implode. Political representation must therefore be integrated with the technological development of an era, ours, which no longer involves a virtually total separation between representative and represented, both from the point of view of information and knowledge. The determination of the political will of the citizens, of the nation, does not require any more cumbersome procedures, it does not contemplate liabilities, but is fueled by total discourse. What is about to happen is the inevitable transition from the democratisation of the State to the democratization of society, where the public service, in all its forms, must be as much as possible the main occupation of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For this reason, in line with the provisions of the current government contract and with what has always been supported by the Movimento 5 Stars, the cut of parliamentarians is not a threat to representative democracy. It is not a threat to representative democracy! It is the right corrective to increase Parliament's efficiency and productivity and to rationalise public spending, aligning Italy with the most modern western democracies in a path that can no longer be postponed of total renewal and modernization, which sees the citizen directly involved in democratic choices and fully responsible for them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u22	Mr President, fellow Senators, representative of the Government, a Government which considers this reform to be so important sends a - albeit most respectable - Undersecretary. In fact, there is no other member of the Government.Evidently, they all have something else to do. It can also happen to Members that they have other things to do. However, if there are enough Members, they can also be represented. Instead, this fundamental step - as we are made to believe - is completely snubbed by the Government. Moreover, I note that the press forums, which may then tell us some kindness in this regard, are also deserted. Let us immediately clarify a question of savings, assuming that talking about savings is the most appropriate term when it comes to democracy; there are countries that save a great deal by abolishing Parliament and establishing a dictatorship. The savings are total. [[Applause from the FI-BP and Mixed Groups]] You can't do the math, more than 100 or less 50, the expenses are zeroed and so the country is happy. According to this theory, all dictatorial countries are happy. However, if we go back to saving, if we approve the measure for our examination, it will be around 50 million euros a year. Then, of course, it is fabulous: in ten years it will be 500 million, in a hundred years it will be 5 billion. However, since we look far away, I would point out that not in five hundred years, but in the thirteen months of the current Government's work, 750 million have been lost just because they are committed to making trouble - at best - on the highways, they have forgotten during this period of time to call the races for the expired motorway concessions. This makes the state lose - through the driver who pays for a service that it does not have and for investments that are not made because, since the dealership expired, there is no possibility of doing it - 750 million, pulled out of the pockets of citizens, from those who work, from those who circulate on the streets, for once for pleasure, but above all to work. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are already eating the first fifteen years of reducing the number of Members. We too, therefore, look far away. Then there would be so many other voices to emphasize, including a fact resulting from the creative statements of someone. There are only a few, there is no need for 1000 Members to make trouble. The inappropriate statements of some key compositions from the point of view of the finances and the economy of our country, which would surely remain even after the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, have meant that the interest rates that the State undertakes to pay on the securities it places day by day, or at least week by week, have increased, always in the only thirteen months of Government, by 8 billion compared to the average of 2017, which was not the perfect world, but the one in which a certain amount of interest was paid. Only the securities issued in the last thirteen months of this enlightened Government involve commitments for citizens of 8 billion. We are going down the road here, because they amount to one hundred and sixty years of savings for reducing the number of Members of Parliament. I would also like to mention a few numbers; I have even heard that this is a way of returning to the spirit of the Constituents; to bring Parliament to a much smaller number than the Constituents have predicted is to be in their spirit. No one doubted in 1947 that the Italian population was increasing. It had increased since 1861 and then there was a brake, which never reached the current levels; there were, in fact, more born during the Second World War than in recent years and it was clear that the population would increase. Today, beyond the games I have heard, the reform would involve a Senate of 300 people and a House of about 700 people, as has already been said. We have voted to the end of the 2005 reform, which reduced Members to about 500 in the House and 250 in the Senate: a measure that we considered reasonable in the context of a redistribution of tasks between the Houses. We also tried to reform the last parliamentary term, but when the framework makes us say that we are going in the wrong direction, we can only dissociate ourselves from such a project. We have already heard so many times in the last legislature the fairy tale, the lie and the false awareness of saying that we have a number of Members exorbitant compared to other countries. In the United Kingdom, beyond the games you play, there are more than just from us. Germany, on the other hand, is the only country that has a relationship between parliamentarians and citizens less than ours, i.e. it has less parliamentarians than the number of citizens. It must also be said that Germany, within the European Union, is the most populous country, so it is normal - as Luigi Di Maio, who takes an example from the population of China, knows - for there to be larger numbers. However, we should not forget - and the rapporteur should not forget this - that in the past he was in favour of federalism - that Germany is a federal state. While Italy has about 800 regional councillors, who in any case have a lower power than those of a Land councillor - Germany is a federal country - in Germany there are 1,850 Land councillors who correspond roughly to our regional advisors: they have more power and have higher wages than Italian parliamentarians. Bavaria, which is the German Land closest to Italy, has 200 members of the Land Council, each with a budget of more or less double that of a senator of the Italian Republic. So we don't lie and Germany - apparently - isn't having a bad time. Then there is the usual comparison with the United States: here too you should either be in good faith or study. I put it in positive, because you could also say that you either have to be in bad faith or be ignorant. You have to study or be in good faith; if you are in good faith and/or you are studying, you should know that the United States is a federal country - look at that - and that the total number of U.S. MPs is 5.969 - you have to count the state MPs too - and the total number of senators is not given by the 100 in Washington, but it is 2.113, because 49 out of the 50 U.S. states are bicameral. By the way, the only single-camera state has only the Senate, just to give you information. Therefore, we have an elected relationship with the citizens, although that is a much larger country, similar to ours: about 40,000 citizens for each elected person, both at State level and at national level, which is about what we have, even though it is our territory much smaller. Then I heard of rationalizing and speeding up the work in Parliament. What do we want faster than passing the financial law in 24 hours, having to vote everything in a closed box? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We in the opposition, who voted knowing that we were on the right side, voted against. I am thinking above all of the Members of the majority, who had 24 hours to examine, without any possibility of intervening, the budget law. This is the golden opportunity to put in all sorts of marchettes, filth and theft to the detriment of the Italian people. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is the main road to scumbags. As Mrs Binetti has said, it is a Parliament reduced in numbers, with a dynamic for which there must be only the pasdarans of the chief. It is a Parliament where gigantic scumbags are voted, perhaps even in spite of the 'Capo', the one with the capital C; no 'Capo' is able to see the whole text of a financial one, even assuming that it is very good. Procedures of this kind are, therefore, the ones that allow the filth that you would have promised to eliminate. There would be a lot to say, but I would like to conclude by reminding you that the vice-president of the Di Maio Council accuses those who vote against this rule of defending armchairs. Well, there is an obscene market in which the Vice President of the Council - all the newspapers write - asks Members to vote on this reduction to stay until 2023 and hold the chair until 2023. [[Applause from the FI-BP and Mixed Groups]] This is another scumbag: it means extorting a vote that radically changes our Constitution in exchange for the fall for a few more months. Congratulations! On the other hand, the vice-president of the Di Maio Council is the one who compares with the number of parliamentarians in China. Perhaps we should remember that there is something called democracy. I heard, in the pre-my intervention, an exponent of the Movimento 5 Stars say that representative democracy must be overcome: it has been overcome many times in the last century, with dictatorships in the name of the proletariat, of the superior race and of all sorts of nefariousness. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator De Falco]] So our model is not China. Our model is democracy. With this whole set of reforms that are being carried on in the acts, shutting Parliament's mouth when it comes to voting on the most important law of the year, reducing the number, the dignity and especially the power of Parliament, through the other reform that you are carrying out on the so-called proactive referendum, we go in the direction of China: zero rights for workers, zero freedom. This is what you want. We don't want it. [[Applause from the FI-BP and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u25	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to speak on the order of business, just to make a comment. With the reduction of Members we would be more than we are now in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not on the order of business. AIROLA (M5S). Yes, you do. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Have a seat, Senator. Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u26	Mr President, of course it is possible to cut the number of Members, but we must first see how, in a reasonable way, we can ask ourselves why. It is not new; indeed, it can be said that in our system it can be regarded as an obsession, at least by the ninth legislature. Since the 1990s it has been tried, in every legislature, to cut the number of parliamentarians, in line with the same idea that since the 1970s it has gone towards the strengthening of the Executive, to the detriment of the legislative, in contrast to the constitutional vision, which puts the Parliament at the center because representation of all Italians (in part quota), unlike the Government, which represents only a part of them. The Constitution, therefore, intended to put the Chambers under the control of the executive power. But since the reform of the 1970s, the obsession with centralization and verticalisation of representation has seen a practice take place: over time Parliament has increasingly lost its centrality and power of control of the Executive - it is only a part - and has become a succub subject of the Executive, i.e. a mere executor. With respect to the concept of democracy, this certainly represents a loss. There is a depletion of the concept of democracy in this mere shift in practice. There was the myth that this would lead to an efficiency policy and an improvement in legislative action. However - as has been said several times - it takes very little time to make a law quickly and to do it badly. It is said that all Italians want this cut. Yet, two times the Italians have been called to express themselves on the cut of the parliamentarians and twice they have said no: in 2006 and then, very recently, on 4 December 2016, when the bicameralism was reconfirmed. Should this bicameralism then be at the expense of representation? I think they can't duel. If we Italians have chosen bicameralism, it is because we believe that it is functional to the debate, to the analysis and to the distortion of problems, even if it is true that then, in fact, over the decades, this bicameralism has often been denied by the practice of having only one Chamber work and then of armoring the other. Why do I say that with this bicameralism in this bill you want to compress representation? Because when you compare it with European standards, you get mass of the two Chambers, which should not be because, while many have monocameralism, we have bicameralism and we should be proud of this choice, which also comes from the people, from which it has been very recently confirmed. For this reason, therefore, we should compare only one Chamber with the Chambers of other countries. The result of this comparison is that Italy is no longer at the top, but only at the 21st. If I wanted to make a comparison with the House of other countries, I could quote the case of Sweden - which is not even the country that has the most - in which there are three, four MPs per 100,000 inhabitants, against only one Italian Member. So, when we do this reform - as I think it will unfortunately happen, given the audience - we will get to the last place. This will mean that the Italians will be punished for having chosen and confirmed the constitutional bicameralism to the detriment of the representation, which however is of the people, because in part the Parliament represents the will, the political vision and the idea of each. And when the political thinking of minorities is squeezed down, the dictatorship of the majority is being imposed, which is not the exercise of democracy. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and FI-BP]] If I still have time, I want to give you another example. Switzerland is a federal country, with a direct democracy, which is an objective which I believe we should not give up. In order to have direct democracy, Switzerland out of 8 million inhabitants has nothing less than 200 MPs, the same ones we want to bring Italy, which however has a population of 60 million people. I repeat, Switzerland with just over 8 million inhabitants has 200 Members; we propose for Italy, with 60 million inhabitants, only 200 Members. It is clear that we are not going towards participatory democracy; we are going against the tide, towards verticalisation in place since the 1970s, without any change. It is said that this reform will lead to savings, but, as has been said, it will be a saving of 0.01% of the State's expenditure and, I am sorry to say, 500 million euros on total expenditure are not many. In any case, since half-and-spending is necessary, without going to touch the Constitution, it would have been enough to cut the salaries of Members of Parliament and even the expenses reimbursements, which we could have done with an ordinary law and we would have had the same savings. We are talking about efficiency, although I do not think it is given by a smaller number of Members. We all work in the Commissions: there are 14 standing committees, to which are added the monocameral and bicameral committees of inquiry, the special committees. This means that we all have a great deal of work to do and follow all the issues and, therefore, not only legislation - because it is not just these - is burdensome. Reduce the number and distribute it for the 14 permanent commissions plus the bicameral ones will be a business, if we do not want to change our form of state. Then there is the problem of life senators, which have been raised from eight to five, but the percentage rises from 1.6 to 2.4 percent, when 3% is the threshold for entering Parliament. We could, therefore, say that we would be in the presence of a small party of the President. What I see contrasting is the strengthening of the Commission with direct democracy, the confrontation between direct democratic representation and summitism, which we already check every day with decree-laws in excess, demands for trust and with bicameralism denied.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u27	We must ask ourselves first of all what kind of country we want to be before making decisions even technical because, behind every technical decision, there is a political vision and Parliament that we want. Do we want to move towards greater representation and, therefore, a direct democracy or a top management system of power? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe - and I shall say this without hesitation or hypocrisy - that the reduction in the number of Members represents the response to Parliament's crisis and solves the problems of its precarious relationship with public opinion. Is it really believed that the cut will improve the quality and efficiency of the parliamentary debate and the process of passing the laws? If you wanted to give the idea of saving, you just had to find alternative saving measures. If it is the sum that makes the total, as the great Totò reminds us, this was the simplest and linear path to follow. The number of our elected members is equal to that of the other European democracies and, instead, we will have huge colleges that will increase the electoral costs of the candidates and widen the physical distance between elected and voters. You, with this law, will not only reduce the number of parliamentarians, but also reduce the roles and functions of Parliament, which is gradually becoming the echo of government authoritarianism. It is not only that which is perplexed; it is above all the principle of proportionality between the large and the small regions and no one will convince me otherwise, even if someone wants to do so. Your guillotine will lead the Regions with the least number of inhabitants to see their already reduced parliamentary representation decrease, bringing contrasts within the territory. This reform therefore weakens territorial political representation by increasing the detachment from citizens, but above all it will strengthen party representation and then penalise minority political forces, with serious alteration of democratic principles. The election of the Head of State is also altered - someone has already mentioned this and I want to point out this - because the reduction of parliamentarians corresponds to a different weight of regional delegates. In short, we are in the presence of an unacceptable and damaging democratic force of a series of constitutional prerogatives. I say no, therefore, by defending the prerogatives of small realities like mine, which will be made peripheral and marginal. This is not an efficiency but a democratic and constitutional deficiency. Hypocrisy could lead me to ignore anything, but in the fury of not seeing, we are not realizing that every day we are witnessing the loss of this Parliament's dignity. Parliament is dying and that is not the way to bring it back to life. If the constituent Fathers, referred to in this House by several colleagues, made this choice, it meant that they had in mind an idea of democracy where there was affection and recognizability in the territory with their representatives, almost a physical contact, a democratic idea of listening to needs. With the approval of the reform on the agenda there will be one MEP every 150,000 inhabitants: from legs to the air this democratic contagion. But you don't care, for a good part of you there is the Rousseau platform that replaces democracy. You represent populism that distils doses of fake change. For my history I am, as the great Aldo Moro, conservative, said, I want to keep the reasons for democracy and freedom intact and if we are more to do so those reasons will have the opportunity to resist the bad weather that occasionally falls on democracies. Therefore I am here to say no, also because Forza Italia had been asked for an opening of credit that for your absurdity was not there; the confrontation is missing and this is not democracy. I, on the other hand, defend democracy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u30	Mr President, representatives of the Government, today this House is debating an epochal reform, evidently in the interest of the 5 Star Movement and apparently also of the League Party (formerly the North League), which preached many other reforms in the past: it was born with the aim of so-called federalism, it has abandoned these ideas and today it is chasing the 5 Star Movement, its government partner, in a fight against those who say more about the proximity - I say it in a very synthetic way - to the belly of the people, to the immediate instincts, someone would say more Belluini that is more feral, but that is not so. There is a conviction: the reason why the Movimento 5 Stars was born is to open Parliament up like a tuna box, to bring out all the rottenness there is, to reduce the number of Members, to remove the vitality. This question is called constitutional reform, but it is only because it touches and crosses 3 articles of the Constitution and the process of constitutional revision referred to in Article 138 of the Charter, but it does not have the rank of constitutional reform because there is no constitutional reasoning, there is no reasoning that goes back to the thought of our constituent Fathers when in 1947 and then in January 1948 the Italian Constitution saw the light. In fact, what you are proposing today is a pure and simple linear cut, nothing more: do not affect the real powers, leave them unchanged, rather try to go hand in hand with the real powers. We have seen what is going on with the judiciary these days and you are silent, indeed accomplices of this system, because you probably think of starting the so-called Third Republic through the linear cut of parliamentarians, you do not realize that this is the time when you have to build the second Republic of Judges, because this has not yet been there. On the contrary, you are proposing reforms such as those on justice (the corrupt sweep) that affect the fundamental freedoms of citizens; I am thinking of the prescription, which will give us endless trials from 2020. This is the level of your reforms, dear friends of the Movimento 5 Stars and dear friends accomplices of the League. If we were to reason, we have been talking about revising the Constitution for more than fifteen years. We tried it in 2005, as Senator Malan used to remember. Then a referendum stopped that revision of the Constitution, which made sense: indication of the Premier and Federal Senate of the Regions, because that then wanted the League. The same attempt made by Renzi, although clumsy in form, contained in the substance elements against which the country was placed in a position to reflect around a plant that was certainly not as modest in itself as this present, where the cut is purely horizontal and there is nothing more. You also change the representation for the small regions, as Senator Leonardo said, who preceded me; remove the right to stand. I come from a Region, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, which is an autonomous Region with a special Statute and which currently expresses seven senators. As a result of the cut, it will reach four senators, but in fact it will be three plus one, because a senator will be an expression of the Slovenian linguistic minority. So it is not true that the cut is 38 percent; it is actually 50 percent. This means, from the numerical point of view of representation, that if, to date, in my small region of 1,20,000 inhabitants, the proportion between inhabitants and elected is 200,000 inhabitants for each elected person, as a result of this reform we will reach one representative for every 400,000 inhabitants. In such a college, the function of the Member of Parliament is in fact mortified. But you do not need Members, because Parliament will be closed in the political perspective outlined by the combined arrangement of this constitutional reform and the introduction of the proposed referendum. With the proposed referendum it is clear that the Rousseau platform will tell us how we will have to make the laws; it will show what are the issues to be dealt with and consequently the parliamentary function fails. We are in a democratic republic based on perfect bicameralism. I would have thought and expected an awakening of enthusiasm and energy from two political forces. One, which at this time is the oldest, is the party of the North League; the other, which says to represent the new and the change to the Government, reduces the fundamental rights drastically. We have seen it and I repeat it, because for me this is a very serious fact in the matter of justice: you will give Italian citizens endless trials (the end of trial never). Well, this reform is about the linear cut and it has nothing to do with the rank of constitutional reform, because there is no reasoning, except the pure and simple expression of reduction and cutting. Then there will be the cut of vitality, of course; this is a refrain and a mantra that comes out every day. In essence look around, dear friends of the Movimento 5 Stars: what did you deliver after a year to the country? You have handed over the citizenship debt; that is what you have done. This will remain in the annals of the history of your governmental experience, but unfortunately, I must say, the friends of the League, who once had good ideas and today have lost them around a government project. In fact, dear friends of the League, let us not deceive ourselves, beyond having placed in a clear, clear and clear way the problem of irregular immigration, there is not a problem that you have solved, and of trust we have given you so much of Forza Italia, and of attention we give you every day and together with you we govern many important Regions of this Country. I would like to add a final remark: I have just been reminded that there is an important reform on the so-called differentiated autonomy which involves about 20 million inhabitants - the rich regions of the North - and a Governor, the Governor of Veneto, who claims that all the matters listed in Article 117, third paragraph, of the Constitution automatically become of regional competence. Well, the reduction of parliamentarians, the powerful strengthening, through these mechanisms, of regional powers within a regional state, poses not only a problem of keeping up with Article 5 of the Constitution but also a problem of balancing powers. Compared to this, you are complicit in a system that leads to the collapse of this country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u32	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I confess that this Constitutional Charter has never made me fall in love for a very simple reason, because it is born as a result of a compromise between the forces that had participated in the civil war in Italy, especially the Christian Democracy and the Communist Party. We must recognise, however, that the work has led to an important document, which has maintained our legislative system and given a fundamental direction. Personally, I would be pleased if we could achieve a genuine and organic reform of the Constitution, and therefore also a third Republic, but I imagine that third Republic as a presidential Republic, a Republic that also has within it the defence of autonomy and the strengthening of powers, and also - I mean with great force - an autonomous push in a state guarantee balance. This is the real reform. Today, on the other hand, we are having to discuss - let me say this - our Constitutional Charter, and we are having to talk about it, and we are having to talk about it, we are having to talk about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are talking about it, we are going to talk about it, we are going to talk about it, we are going to talk about it, we are going to talk about it, let We - I mean - were initially illusory when, at first reading in the Senate, we had taken the floor and given an opening of credit, believing that such a reform could still be improved. We were deluded, that is, that the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, who we had strongly supported and voted for, giving - I mean - also a sudden opening of credit to all the political forces that we thought were genuinely innovative, could give rise to and start a dialogue in order to achieve an organic reform of our constitutional system. This was not the case and the work carried out in the Commission, at least because of what we have been able to see and that the members of Forza Italia who were present, are there to demonstrate the tension and conflict experienced at those moments, especially when asked to enlarge, to make a different reform that was not limited exclusively to the amendment of Articles 56, 57 and 59 of the Constitution. However, I would like to stress that Forza Italia has been, not since today but always, in favour of reducing the number of Members of Parliament. But an account is to indicate a number that can guarantee the actual and effective functioning of the work, in particular those carried out in the Commission; another account is to give an excessive cut which does not take account of this and which at this point we consider to be the fruit exclusively of the demagogy that infected the democratic system. We ask ourselves, in essence, how can a number - I think of the Senate - of 200 senators support a difficult workload that must be absolutely acquitted, especially in the Commissions. Today this is also possible for the majority forces, but will it be possible tomorrow? I don't think so, and that's the reason why we're going through so much trouble. The constitutional system, however perfect, represents a unique body. It is difficult to think of reforms that can have the ambition to be such, in short, their dignity, if they are torn apart and bitten. The constituent Fathers, however, had a very precise, balanced idea of state; in particular, the problem of achieving an effective balance between the powers of the State: executive, legislative and judicial. The number of 630 Members and 315 senators, although perfectable as we said, had a sense and a proportion, especially from the point of view of representation. Moreover - and I make the ventriloquist of monsieur de La Palice - in 1948 the number of Italians was infinitely smaller than the about 60 million Italians there today, so we have a vulnus evident also in terms of representation. I was talking about balance and balance between powers: that well-known tripartition that Montesquieu brought within the institutions, which then came to fertilize all the European Constitutions. The impression, indeed the perception and - I might say - the idea that I have made myself is that we are in the presence of an unprecedented attack on democratic institutions, in particular on Parliament. First, the elimination of parliamentary immunity and now such a drastic reduction of parliamentarians and elected representatives that it puts legislative power in an imbalance with the executive, and even more so with respect to the judiciary. A further attack on the parliamentary institution, therefore, which risks paralysing the work, reducing its quality and bringing our institution into a condition of unacceptable subordination to the executive and judicial powers. I mean, a useless Parliament. All this to support, I fear, an attitude of anti-politics through this measure which, to all intents and purposes - it has already been said by someone but let me repeat it - is simply a commercial measure in our view. At the time of the university, when in class we listened intrigued and attentive to the lessons of constitutional law, those like me, perhaps more critical - as I said at the beginning - of the Constitutional Charter itself, when they started discussions had an idea of an alternative state. We were talking about the presidential Republic, about a more authoritative, decision-making state, but within a genuinely federal framework. That was the dream, of a probably then minority part, of a generation, of my generation, but they are truths that have come to the point that the idea of a presidential Republic is still accepted and wanted by most Italians today. That is why looking at this reform, at this miserable attempt to change something seems to me very little time not only for the Senate Chamber, but also for that of the House, to which it will pass, because we have the perception that a reform or it is done organically or reform is not. Mr President, I have never personally participated in any roundabouts, or in demonstrations with the people of Europe to defend this Constitutional Charter, because I do not consider it a totem, but I am saddened by being here to discuss this reform. This is the way I want to convey it: it saddens me to think that a constitutional reform can start and come simply from the modification of three articles of the Constitutional Charter. Those who wanted to open Parliament up like a can of tuna have taken another step forward in these hours. The absence of an overall organic reform which would have been appropriate - certainly even if I had a balanced reduction in the number of Members - gives me great concern, unfortunately based on what the real aims of this majority are. We had given an opening of credit, we feel betrayed, but not just us: the true betrayal is that of democracy. We were hoping for a change of heart that wasn't there. At this point we fear that the damage can be irreversible, simply because it is a reform that does not bring real savings, not even from the economic point of view. Today's, in the next few hours, is a dark page of our Republic. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u34	Mr President, I am uncomfortable because in these years of belonging to the Senate I have had some battles in defense of the Constitution: with President Roberto Calderoli, with Senator Bottici, with those with whom, then, in the squares, we defended the Constitution with respect to an improper amendment. I tried to figure out what the reason for this change was. Maybe we've been wrong the times we've seen and we'll see what the ratio is. Someone tells me that there is a better chance of working better and having a faster legislative process. You are all witnesses, with me, that in this legislature there is never debate in the Commissions, there is only one order of stables, there is a way of working that has no relevance to the formation of laws. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Someone else says there's a cost cut. Shame! No constituent has ever thought that constitutional guarantees or procedural guarantees for the defence of rights could be conditioned by costs. Never! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is only intellectual misery, the lack of competence that can lead to such a heresy. This morning I really felt a heresy, Minister, I hoped that you would intervene. I hear that there is a sense of representative democracy and that democracy must return to the hands of citizens, in particular with direct democracy integrated with technological systems (i.e. integrated with the Rousseau platform). To vote on these rules? Excuse me, but it's really something ridiculous. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I will never agree, because I want to defend the weakest in this country. I can never agree with anyone who leans for a democracy of the few. In fact, direct democracy with control systems is a false idea. This would mean - no more, no less - that oppressive democracy that was carried out in countries such as China or Russia of the past. You want to bring that system. There's nothing new under the sun. As Mao said, there is great confusion under the sky. And that was the logic of legitimizing a democracy, with orders of stables on how to behave. And you, with nonchalance, want to introduce something like this into our country. Minister, there is a need for a debate and a hearing on the part of the Ministers as well. Why is listening necessary? What happens? Every day, when I come to the Senate, on some issues I go to re-read the collection of minutes of the meetings of the constituent assembly. Why? They are educational and I advise you to read them. What is the ratio of the forecast of 315 senators? The Fathers of the Homeland discussed for a long time the need for a balance between the number of citizens and the representativeness within the Houses, because if there is not that balance... FARAONE (PD). We have a new minister! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please. Please, Senator Caliendo, don't stop. CALIENDO (FI-BP). I was saying that there is that balance that, altered, leads to a preponderance of the executive power over the legislative one. I applauded Mrs Nugnes, who - probably one who has read, like me - has grasped the need for a balance, which is necessary. I am a lover of true representative democracy and I must have the opportunity to speak freely in this House. I spoke when I was told that if Renzi's constitutional reform had failed, we would immediately have the early elections. I didn't give a damn, and with many of you, the 5 Star Movement and the League, we turned the streets to defend that Constitution. And should I be worried today, or should I feel guaranteed by Vice President Di Maio, who this morning, in the newspapers, tells us that if the reform is approved we will have a guarantee of the legislature? Do not believe it, because it is truly the promise of a sailor, of the one who, at the time of the local and political elections in our South, dear Senator Secretary, guaranteed great things. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] He guarantees us the legislature, but the two of us know that it is enough to have a small debate on strong issues, such as what was about to happen yesterday, to blow up the legislature. So don't fall into these pitfalls. Why do you promise these things? It's a shameful thing. This is not consistent with what we have to do. I must defend the Constitution, absolutely, even by going against it, if the case were to take place as in the past legislature. At that time, when my Group decided to vote in favour of one of the passages in constitutional reform, I withdrew an amendment that was contrary to that reform for a new composition of the Senate, saying, however, that if the text was not changed, I would vote against and campaign for election. And so I say today. It may be that I will no longer be in this House, it may be that we will no longer have the opportunity to confront each other, but in the squares and with the citizens there will always be the opportunity to confront each other and to say that you have a huge responsibility, that of establishing a system that is no longer balanced, that of creeping tyrannies that are identified in some countries. Would I be against the reduction of Members of Parliament? No, I am against a reduction in Members in this way. And I am surprised that Senator Calderoli, who is a Father in this matter, who has written with me a thousand texts on this subject and who is a defender of the Constitution, can say that today only the reform of the number of parliamentarians can be a fair solution. Senator Calderoli, this is not a fair solution, because you know better than I that we had said yes to the reform of the number of parliamentarians but, at that point, to avoid an excessive force of the executive towards the legislative we had thought either of the direct election of the President of the Republic or of a semi-presidency. That was the logic, otherwise, the implant doesn't stand. Why are you taking us, then, to such a solution? It probably bothers you, too, with a minimal form of opposition, in debates in the Commission or in this House, with the desire to govern according to a model of conformity of all to the wishes of the chief. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u35	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u36	Mr President, I did not actually sign up to speak, but I take the opportunity to make a brief speech. I would just like to say that I agree with what has been said, in the sense that we are in a constitutional parliamentary republic, which is a very delicate mechanism, which acts through weights and counterweights. The mechanism works, and it will only work as long as Parliament and the Government remain at least a possibility of dialectic. In this way, by intervening only on one of the elements, it is clear that the balance of a mechanism that cannot remain democratic and representative is altered. In this way, as has been said, the protection of the Constitutional Charter, which has also been implemented by the Movimento 5 Stars and those who are currently opposed, and the defence of the Constitution with respect to the reform proposed by the Renzi Government and other previous projects, is still being frustrated. What's the point of the Movement today? I believe - indeed, I am sure - that in one's heart each of the 5 Star Movimento colleagues is fully aware that this reform is a serious act against democracy. I ask him, then, once again, as I did on the Diciotti case, to have for once the courage to be yourself and at least to stay home tomorrow. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and FI-BP]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u37	She's registered to speak Senator Minuto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u38	Mr President, after the very right speech by Senator Caliendo, I will have a great deal of difficulty in expressing my thoughts, even if I say very quickly that in the future the potentates will probably be re-elected and will find themselves here; instead, the real problem will be the new ones that will certainly not be there. I tried to analyze the bill at our examination from my point of view, that of a woman who has always worked and lived among people, who is now an expression of the territories in which she lives and represents them in the Senate; she now represents them, as a senator, listening to their problems and solicitations. And living among people I understand that reducing the number of parliamentarians is certainly a very, very popular thing today. I live it every day, I listen to people and therefore I know that it is very popular and, in short, finds a lot of consensus among ordinary people. The fight against the so-called caste has been going on for years now. First with the reduction of salaries, then the so-called vitality, now with the reduction of the number of Members. A war has been going on against the parliamentarians for years that has led to the growth of some political forces that have ridden this battle. After this reform, even in my region, Puglia, the number of senators and senators will decrease. Where there are barely three now, there will be two, because that's the proportion. This is the number you decide today to insert into the Constitution, 200 instead of 315; this is the number you have decided. In the House there will be a speculative reduction. In a few years, however, we will notice that the savings will not be those expected, because however the buildings and structures will all remain standing, even with less parliamentarians; indeed a new selection of staff has just started through new competitions. So what will be done when we realize that the reduction in the number of Members has not solved the problems of our economy? The real problems will have to be tackled, which are those of a state that has poor administrations, but that cost a great deal, that allocates badly its own spending, that does not have efficient organisational models, that does not facilitate those who invest and those who do business. And so those who do not have the job will not find it just because you have reduced the number of Members. People will continue to be unemployed. Those who fail to carry out their activities will no longer be billed because the number of Members has decreased. Those who do not have infrastructure, those who are not connected with the railway or with airports will not reach their destination better because the number of Members decreases. These are - alas - the real problems of the country that, even after this reduction, will all remain the same. And this reduction, which many of the people with whom I speak every day are judged to be just, is not even included in a harmonious redesign of the rules that are the basis of our laws, the Constitution and our coexistence. In the 14th legislature, the Berlusconi government promoted a reduction in the number of MPs, which later became a shared point of the centre-right program. But now there is a risk that this reform will only become an instrument for further impoverishment of Parliament's capacity to represent the pivot of democracy or to incite the contrast between citizens and institutions. Let's not yell at the people's belly for mere election ads. The mood of the people is like the whale when they want to eat: that whale is always hungry and is not satisfied in this way. The cut of parliamentarians, which seems fair today, does not guarantee the improvement of the ruling class, nor the effectiveness of the institutional machinery. The reduction in the number of Members of Parliament must be accompanied by reliable institutional reforms and parliamentary regulations. We must ask ourselves: what real benefit would the cut in the number of Members of Parliament lead to? Is it capable of improving the quality and efficiency of the debate in Parliament and of the process of passing laws? The savings that would result from a hypothetical cut in the number of Members would not be substantial and is therefore not efficient. This cost would not justify such a serious intervention on the democratic representation of our country. Moreover, reducing the number of parliamentarians without overcoming the bicameralism of equality will not improve the efficiency of the legislative process and the functioning of the Chambers. It should also be remembered, as other senators have said, that our parliamentarians also have the power to elect the President of the Republic and the constitutional judges. In short, there is a risk of decreasing the number of representatives and thus adversely affecting the parliamentary regulations and the work of the Commissions. Another consequence of the reform is the adjustment of the electoral colleges which are already fairly extensive, as provided for in the current electoral law, the Rosatellum. There is a risk of extending the distance between voters and candidates and therefore the elected ones. The small Provinces, entire territories and populations would risk being less and less represented in Parliament even more than they are today: as far as I am concerned, in addition to their complaints, I also carry out their requests in the Senate, as far as I can. By reducing the number of MEPs abroad, we will then find ourselves with an elected body representing a college of several continents. I think this is absurd. Let us make a careful reflection before committing lightness that would compromise democracy and our Constitution, generated by our constituent Fathers and now more than ever necessary. In times of crisis, talking about cuts and therefore reducing the costs of Members always has a certain appeal to voters, but here we must be whole and really look at the consequences of these decisions. I would like to make another point: the reduction of Members of Parliament would naturally have the effect of reducing to virtually zero the possibility for the new generations of access to a parliamentary seat with the automatic consequence of the creation of real political powers in the territories. It will not escape that this Parliament, as repeatedly rightly emphasized by authoritative members of the same majority of government, has distinguished itself for being perhaps the "newest" in the history of the country. Here we are for 60 percent new people: I say this as a woman and as a person of the territory (I have been conducting political battles on this point in my college for about thirty years) which would probably have been denied this possibility. Think. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u40	Mr President, I considered it absolutely necessary to speak in this sitting, because the decision that the Senate of the Republic is preparing to take is crucial. The position in our Group and the Fratelli d'Italia party will be expressed in a complete manner shortly in a press conference by President Giorgia Meloni. It is not up to me to anticipate it, even if it is clear to everyone, because our behavior has always been clear, transparent and linear on all occasions. All the more so when we talk about the Constitution, our institutions and therefore our democracy, our position will be consistent with what we have previously expressed and with the position of the Italian political right, which has always been absolutely convinced of the need for the reform of the Italian institutions and - together with this - the reduction in the number of parliamentarians. It is true that unfortunately we start here with the left foot, with the wrong foot; in Italian history and culture starting from the left side means always starting from the wrong side. It is not by chance that we are talking about left hand or left destiny: whatever is emanation of the left seems negative with respect to the right hand, that is, the right hand, or the right foot, the right hand. However, we start and achieve a goal that we tried to achieve, together with others, in a reform accomplished, in 2005, as President La Russa and the many who were then protagonists of it, then rejected by the electoral body. That was a reform, or almost a reform, because in that text, in addition to reducing the number of Members, the functions of the two branches of Parliament were also changed. That's not even what you do here. The current bicameralism - it is a reflection that I want to submit to you - apparently perfect, when it began in the post-war era it was perfect in functions but different in legitimacy. In fact, then, the Senate was elected in uninomial colleges tending to be majoritarian and relied on the person, while the House was elected in proportional colleges, widely understood. Today there is no difference in legitimacy and electoral body, because Chamber and Senate are elected in the same way in proportional colleges and uninomial colleges. Today, then, there would be more need than yesterday to change the functions of the House and Senate, which you did not want to do in this reform. However, there is a reduction in the number of Members. The goal of increasing the number of MPs in this country to 400 was only successful in the 1920s, when the President of the Council was Benito Mussolini; he managed to reduce the number of MPs - not of the Kingdom Senate, of course, but of the Chamber of Deputies, which was the representative chamber - from 538 (because it had grown over time) to 400, exactly the number to which they will be reduced with this parliamentary reform. There is therefore a comparison, a historical comparison (only historical, obviously not political). Mr Verducci (PD). History is political, Senator. Mr Urso (FdI). Even then the number of Italian voters was far lower and those 400 represented a far smaller electoral body than the present. Mr Verducci (PD). What is it, Mussolini's reform? Mr Urso (FdI). And even then the terminology used in that debate, very present in Italy and not only, was precisely what the colleague of the 5 Stars reported in this House: a senescence of representative democracy. Exactly the same: senescence of representative democracy and the need to represent society. In fact, then a Chamber of Guilds was created that represented society. It is a purely historical comparison to tell you that this problem of representative democracy goes far back in time, but it must be addressed today more than ever. Colleagues, the problem must be tackled more fully today than ever - and we hope that this will be an incentive to do so as soon as possible - because representative democracy is born with national states. Then there is the talk of globalization and the creation of continental realities, of continental empires, to which you often refer, such as the Chinese Empire (the Undersecretary for Foreign Trade speaks of it as the best democracy in the world today), the Russian Empire, the same American Empire and perhaps also the neighbouring Empire that the Turkish Erdogan tries to achieve. These institutional forms, which are present because they derive from the effect of globalisation and from the emptying of national feeling and sovereignty, are reassembled in continental reality, as could the European Union itself, which tends to become or to be, in some ways, a neo-Soviet empire. These forms of representation should be discussed in a serious and in-depth way, all the more so in Italy where the State is recent but the Nation is ancient, in a European context in which, not by chance, national states are born with representative democracy. The European problem is precisely this: the crisis of the national state brings with it the crisis of representative democracy. We must ask ourselves whether this is not a vulnus that affects the rights of individuals, people and communities, as configured within the national states because, outside of them - and therefore of representative democracy - there is not even the legal culture of the rights of the person, the community and the freedoms in the different religious, civil and political manifestations. The reference, as I said, is always strictly within the national states and in fact, not by chance, we are talking about the rights of the Jewish-Christian civilization in Europe. It is absolutely necessary and we hope that this is a left foot that forces us to take the right step and to build a constitutional reform that affects above all the understanding of what is now national sovereignty and how it is implemented. Without national sovereignty, in fact, there is no democracy, as evidenced by the continental realities in which democracy is cancelled or considered outdated, and I am referring not only to the Asian ones, but also to the continental ones of Europe and the Mediterranean ones and even, in some respects, to the American ones, which, however, have very strong counterweights. In the context of this speech, the solution increasingly accredited is that of the presidential republic, when it is possible to combine the need for representative democracy to give a form to the government with the possibility that the government can affect in real times, even with a tweet, without having to witness what is happening unfortunately in Italy, where it is never decided and everything is postponed from day to day, always with a tweet. As Brothers of Italy we then think that this must be - as it was, even in a left-hand way - the necessary step to force Parliament to do everything else. Otherwise it would be really dangerous to reduce the number of parliamentarians who contract the power of minorities, without a complete constitutional reform that changes the current bicameralism - now really perfect because, unlike forty years ago, perfect and equal is the same source of legitimacy - and that certainly and all the more the problem of creating a presidential system, in which there is what is lacking today, namely the Premier. In this regard, it is particularly emblematic in the current Government, the result of the contract, the vulnus of the ability to govern in Italy, in which it decides more a Vice Premier - we do not know if vicar, but it is said that "vicar" counts little - that the Premier himself. We have reached the point of the fall of the Italian political and institutional crisis and you represent it. I would like to thank you for intervening in this House about a month ago at the end of the sitting, which, among other things, raised a reaction which appeared to me unconsulted, highlighting the vulnus of democracy and the prerogatives of Parliament that arose from the trial and gratuitousness of the Sub-secretaries and Ministers put in place by the 5 Star Movement. It was June 12th. Until then, all the newspapers were talking about the trial of the Undersecretaries and Ministers outside Parliament's classrooms in forms that violated parliamentary prerogatives. We made that speech; there was an unconsulted reaction in this House and the trial of the Undersecretaries disappeared from the next day. After a month, there has been no more news of it, which means that talking sometimes serves to make people understand. I hope that with this brief speech we will be able to understand the need that the country has, today more than ever, for a true and complete constitutional reform and a true and complete modern reflection on what national sovereignty is today. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u42	Mr President, anyone who has studied the parliamentary chronicles knows that in republican history there has been only one party among the most representative who has thought of introducing a reform similar to this, that is, a horizontal cut in the number of parliamentarians without this being linked to a more general reform and without it being justified by the functional needs of the institutions and the legislative power. That party was the Italian Communist Party and did so for reasons of political controversy. These were the times when Bettino Craxi, acting as an anti-communist, was agitating the abolition of the secret vote in the parliamentary classrooms. The secret vote was evidently an instrument available to oppositions to bring out contradictions within the majority of government. They were rather articulate and quite precarious majorities. To this the PCI responded by threatening the cut in the number of parliamentarians. Aldo Tortorella was in charge of this dialectic: the more Craxi insisted, the more Tortorella lowered the level of parliamentary representation, so much so that at some point Berlinguer summoned him and said: Dear Aldo, let's get this over with, otherwise we will be left alone in this great Chamber. It is not the best way to treat the Constitution, the institutions and to honor the state. It is clear that the only ratio of this reform is that whichever; it is the way to show off the scalpeo of the political class, to which you belong yourself. The argument that you use of cost reductions is miserable, let me say it: you cannot put the quality of democracy and the functionality of the institutions in terms of costs. Even if this were the plan, the reduction is not miserable, but miserable: overall the House and the Senate cost about 1.5 billion every year and the savings would be in the order of 50 million euros. There are more effective arguments to justify such a reform, which would have high costs in terms of the quality of the democratic process. We live in a time when we rightly complain a lot about the fact that the palace is far from the country, that the representatives are far from the representatives, that the parties are far from the territories. It is clear that such a reform would further remove the parliamentary political class from the territories of which they are expressed with paradoxical cases: all Molise would express a single senator, which would of course be a majority and, therefore, the oppositions in Molise would not be able to be represented in Parliament. How can this meet the need to bring politics closer to the citizens frankly, I ask myself, and I ask you to do so. A barrier threshold, not formalized but real, of 20% would in fact be introduced in many districts. We would lose the sense of political representation, and I think that would be sufficient reason not to vote on this law (in the first parliamentary passage I disagreed with my political group). What worries the most, however, is the context in which this purely qualunquist constitutional bill is inserted; the context of a government that daily crushes the prerogatives of Parliament by abusing the decree of urgency and the question of trust, giving the parliamentary committees and the Assembly of the Chamber and Senate very narrow times, often null, to assess the merit of the measures that the Government imposes on Parliament and even writing instead of the parliamentary groups the amendments to its own decrees-laws then collected in maximendamenti. It is not a good practice and even worse is the prospect that Minister Fraccaro, a very authoritative source, obviously ties in with this reform, that is, the proposed referendum. If the cut in the number of parliamentarians is a reform which is qualunquist, demagogic and ends in itself, which loosens the quality of political representation, with the other really (and I never dramatize, I am not among those who see democracy in danger at every turn) the source of legislative power from Parliament is shifted to some digital platforms. 500,000 clicks will be enough on any platform in favor of any bill to cancel the will of millions of voters: millions of voters against 500,000 clicks, votes against clicks. It is a service to lobbying evidently, a huge, gigantic service to lobbying that, with little effort and little expense, will campaign on Facebook getting whatever results they want. I understand that it is in the logic of the parties that support this Government, parties that believe - probably with good reason - that they owe much of their consent to the wise - or unscrupulous - use of new technologies and social media in a particular way; it is not a service to the quality of the debate, to the quality of democracy. Parliament makes sense because it is the place of confrontation, of mediation, it is the place of deepening. Times in the approval of laws also serve to give the legislator a way to know, to repent, to develop the effects of a law, which in his spirit may be the best possible but in his articulation very often (sometimes it happens despite everything) achieves effects contrary to those desired or produces damages not assessed by the legislator. That is why there are cycles of hearings in the Commissions; that is why there is a comparison in the Commission and in the House between majorities and oppositions, often even within the same majorities; for this reason there are weights and counterweights, which sometimes bother the majority and the government but they make sense and their absence would be even more damaging to the quality of our democracy. I am thinking of the Parliamentary Budget Office, the Budget Commission, the General Accounting Office of the State: all institutions that guarantee the quality of the legislative process, all mechanisms that would have no reason to be if the proposed referendum that is dear to this majority were approved. I am not surprised that political parties that have hypocritically exalted the myth of the Constitution (I remember the 5 Star Members who brandished the booklet the Constitution as if it were Mao's red booklet) today make it a mess; I am not surprised that some parties vote on the measure in question pretending to believe that it is the first step towards who knows what radiant future. I am not surprised because I know that hypocrisy is an element of politics, but when hypocrisy is applied to the Constitution, to the system of rules that govern and oversee political play, when hypocrisy comes to affect the lives of our institutions and threaten the sense of the state, I say that we cannot bend to this game. What is at stake is a bill that dishonors politics and weakens the state. Anyone who cares about politics, anyone who considers it a serious matter and not just some tweets or Facebook posts, anyone who has any sense of the state, this law cannot vote for it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u44	Mr President, I would have expected everything except to be here to use the same arguments as I used in the days of the constitutional reform of the Renzi Government, which my former party opposed for five years. Since comparisons must always be made in a homogeneous way, I am of course referring only to the part of Renzi's constitutional reform which concerned the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, because the title of the constitutional bill presented at the time in the initial part contained provisions concerning the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, so I am referring for now only to that part. Well, when I went around doing meetings and talking about the Constitution, invited by local groups or even other associations, I was with colleagues who are currently elected or with newly elected colleagues, and when we said certain things, we were applauded. Having to assume that they were applause dictated by the content, I repeat the same content as last time. One of the contents was, for example, that, if we talk about cost, we need to intervene on costs and not on people. And ye also said it, and applauded ye also: but now ye say the contrary. It has been pointed out that, if we want to talk about the costs, which are 50 million euros a year, that is 6,6% of the budget of the House and the Senate, these resources can easily be found in another way (since we are talking about cost reduction someone - I open and close a parenthesis - will explain the need to redo the yard garden below - at least 100,000 euros - after it had been done just two years ago). Do we want to talk about costs? Then let's talk about the 660 million euros that you have loaded on the pockets of the Italians with the electric bills to save the Alitalia bubbon or let's talk about the billion and a half of euros that will be loaded on the bills of the Italians for fifteen years for the capacity market, that is to pay those who have the power stations and keep them ready to be used, but potentially stopped. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]] That would have been a cost reduction: it is €22.5 billion in ten years, plus Alitalia's €660 million, which is a start, plus the bridge loan, which remains a demand point. So it is clear that it cannot be an arithmetic issue. But neither can it be because if democracy really costs (and it is right that it costs), then I remind you one thing: every study says that dictatorship costs more. To remove Parliament, because it does not work, and to replace it with a hierarchy body costs more. So the truth is that not even that kind of reasoning has to be done, if it makes sense to approach the word "democracy" to the word "cost." It's right that it costs. I remind you that it was the Republican Parliament that made Italy the fifth world power; it is the parliamentarians, it is we who made this nation become prosperous, it was not those who say that Parliament is not good, it is not working and it is not productive. I remind you that before, when Parliament had become a farce and there was the Chamber of Charms and Guilds (guilds, so also the basics of the trade), that type of system was more expensive, more inefficient and also led us to wage war. We should therefore think about the concept of parliamentary democracy. There's something else that I feel like I have to say from the heart. For years all politics has been the object of hatred by politics itself, that is, Parliament has always been told as the center of all nefariousness. If I have to apologize to the Italians, I have to do it for this: I have participated in a campaign of delegitimization of the activity of Parliament and of Parliament, which is the heart of democracy. Secondly, when you consider the Constitution and think about touching the Constitution so magically, you should first understand what the Constitution is and how it works. Instead, it seems to me that this is the same attitude as one to whom they brought a ship and told him now pilot it yourself. I'd say I don't even know how to get in there, let alone carry it around. (at 12.05 a.m.) (Following MARTELLI). Why can a Parliament not be reduced in the way you think, namely productivity and efficiency? Firstly, because Parliament has been far too productive in recent years - as we said in the last parliamentary term - because Italy has a number of laws at least 15 times higher than the nation that has more of them after Italy. So maybe you don't need to make so many laws. I repeat, you said so and so did I in the last parliamentary term. However, there is a need for well-made laws because if the approved laws need implementing decrees that you are not doing, it means that the problem is that - as you said, as I said - perhaps it is not the Government that has to make the laws. We are all aware of the way in which Parliament works, and we must give a guideline: Parliament's committees are preparing resolutions containing the idea that Parliament, the representative of the people, is transmitting to the government how a law is to be done and the Commission is applying these dictates. Another thing that strikes me is that we are all complicit in convincing the citizen that his elective representative at national level is something that is not right and that, as such, the number should be reduced. It is the paradox: we have convinced the condemned that the executioner is on his side. I think this is a masterpiece. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]] Now it would be appropriate to quote a few numbers: I have heard that Italy has too many parliamentarians, but "too many" is an absolute concept and the absolute concepts do not work. Too much is related to someone else and comparisons have been made, obviously all wrong, because the only comparison that would make sense would be with another bicameral peer system around the world, but even better in Europe. As it does not exist, we have begun to make strange comparisons about the population, saying that Italy has the largest number of parliamentarians in relation to the population, but it is not true because, for example, the United Kingdom has about 1500 parliamentarians, between Lord and Pari, and you could say that it is not a constitutional democracy and I would say that I said it at the beginning that it is not a homogeneous comparison, but you did, and then I respond with a comparison that has nothing to do with it. I can do another: I have said - and rightly so - that we must have a relationship with the people, between the elected and the electorate. So let's take the case of Greece: 10 million and 600,000 inhabitants for 300 elected. Brought back to the Italian picture would be 1,750 while we are at 945. Portugal, which has about the same inhabitants as Greece (10 and a half million) has 230 elected. Multiplying 230 by six we get 1,380. France has a slightly larger number of inhabitants than ours and has 577 members of the national assembly and 342 senators. It is true: they are elected in another way and there are 130,000 great voters but if comparisons are to be made a lot per kilo, then that also works. So even the notion that it's too much has been disassembled. I know that these arguments, in the end, have not taken because by now, when it has been decided what to do, you have to press the button. Do you want me to tell you why, in my opinion, Parliament is not working? It is not working for this reason, because there is someone pressing the button, because the bill is wanted by the government and therefore you have to vote for it and that's it; or it doesn't work because there are people in here - nobody takes it personally - who read speeches written by others and even read them badly. Perhaps that is why Parliament does not work. Or maybe it doesn't work for the number of people who are present and who think there's something else to do. It is clear, then, that it becomes playful to sell to the citizen the enemy and the enemy on duty became the parliamentary. But then when the citizen realizes that his representative has been taken away from him - that he is no longer there because 115 less means that that place is empty and your representative, an Italian citizen, is no longer there because we took him away from you (I said so in this House when the Renzi reform was being discussed) - then and only then will that citizen wonder if he did something wrong. And then it's obviously too late. In closing, another thing that is not beautiful is that this reform has been broken so that you don't understand the general design. It has rightly been pointed out that the proposed referendum, in the way it has been put, is profoundly wrong. It creates a huge asymmetry, within the nation, between those who are able to collect signatures and those who are not able. The professional who can collect signatures of any kind, even organized crime (because there is no constraint on criminal rules) could collect signatures to propose the decriminalization and reduction of penalties for certain offences. That's what you're proposing. All of us should understand the following: of a law it is not so important what it does, but what can be done with it, distorting it and "tiring it." The mathematician says, you take a "squeeze" number, torture it, and you'll get him to say whatever you want. Here's the same thing: this bill can lead to consequences that are not predictable, like dynamic systems that evolve naturally and you can no longer predict the final state. I therefore renew the invitation made by my esteemed colleague De Falco to get a headache, a back pain, a toothache, something, because this is one of the occasions when this kind of reform must be sent back to the sender. The reduction in the number of Members, i.e. representatives of the citizens, is never a response to the problems of the citizens. [[Applause from the Mixed Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u45	Senator Mollame is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u46	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this measure represents a milestone in the history of our Republic, an act that directs us towards a positive trend of confidence growth in the state. We can say that trust is the basis of civil life, politics, the economy and every social structure. I will read below about the considerations that are not mine: Ladies and gentlemen, public opinion does not have much sympathy and confidence for Members at this time. There is an atmosphere of suspicion and discredit, the widespread belief that many times the exercise of the parliamentary mandate can serve to mask the satisfaction of personal interests and become a business, a profession, a trade. These words were not spoken by a colleague of our Movement, but by Piero Calamandrei, jurist, anti-fascist, partisan and deputy elected with the Action Party to the constituent Assembly. You may have heard them before, but they sound more current today than ever before, even though they were spoken in 1947. The Constitutional Assembly then decided to sanction the right to a parliamentary allowance by Article 69 of the Constitution. At the dawn of the Italian Republic, paying parliamentarians was considered a decisive factor of independence and democracy, aimed at allowing even the least well-off classes to participate in political life. Without exaggeration, in view of the dramatic situation in the country, an allowance of 25,000 lire was provisionally fixed in June 1946. But inflation was such that, in February 1947, it had to be brought to $30,000; in September to $50,000, raising the attendance token to $3,000 a day (half value for residents in Rome). Article 69 of the Constitution was first implemented by the Law of 9 August 1948, n. 1102, of the De Gasperi Government, which structured the parliamentary allowance into two separate items: the first consisting of a fixed monthly fee of 65.000 lire; the second by a daily fee, for reimbursement of expenses for the participation in the sessions, the amount of which was assigned to the special resolution of the offices of Presidency of the respective Chambers, taking into account the residence or not in the Capital of each member of Parliament. Translated today: 1,230 euros fixed plus a token of 100 euros scarce per day linked to the actual presence. By removing weekends, Mondays and Fridays - days when calls were and are rare - the figure amounted to no more than 2,500 euros per month. Both emoluments were tax-free. That the air would soon be changed is demonstrated by a law issued by the Segni Government in 1955 with provisions for travel concessions on the State Railways, designed to guarantee the exercise of the popular mandate. The virtuous attitude lasted little. The labors of an Italy destroyed by war and impoverished were gradually forgotten. Since 1955 the progressive increase of allowances and refunds has begun. We experienced periods of economic growth and there was also such a process. The economy, employment, production and wealth of all of us Italians grew. Then, in the eighties - ahinoi - also the public debt to continue to support an economic growth that was already gone. With the fall of the Berlin Wall, the course of history changed again and changed the indices of economic growth of our Italy. At the end of 2008, the economic and financial storm arrived. They saw the light of the first fearful attempts to contain the costs of public spending and also of politics that had become uncontrollable and uncontrollable, costs that were no longer following the course of history. Many proposals and attempts to cut spending and the number of Members. For more than a decade, just words. Today we are serious and no one can and must doubt it. Today we are working for a more streamlined and more efficient Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , closer to the citizens and sharing with them the difficulties of a period from which it will come out with the reconstruction of the relationship of trust between those who govern and those who are governed. We are aware that the overall budget of the House and Senate accounts for about 0.21 percent of public expenditure and 0.1 percent of GDP. We are talking about about 1.5 billion euros, but every big building is made of small bricks, and the bricks are all useful for the stability of that building. Sacrifices have been asked of the Italians and the first to make them must be us elected. It is simply a matter of coherence, nothing more. It's called a State of Solidarity, nothing more. It is the affirmation of a genuine democracy, the one that does not care for the interests of the few, but the interests of many, as Pericles said a few millennium ago to the Athenians. Let's roll up our sleeves. We start again from trust and we are confident.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. He has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u48	Mr President, Mr Fraccaro, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for a brief speech to assess the effects of this mini-reform of the Constitution on the region from which I come, Sardinia. The number of senators will increase from 8 to 5, in the House from 17 to 11 MPs, then from 25 to 16 MPs. While remaining in the proportion of the overall reduction, however, we go to transform the representation of territories so vast, different and distant between them, territories that are part of an island, that is, of a territory that is known not connected to the rest of the Peninsula and that pays dearly for the lack of territorial continuity. A million and 600,000 people pay every day the price of living on an island that enjoys statutory autonomy, but with little operational autonomy. Not by chance, Sardinia has presented, collecting 100,000 signatures (not only collected on the island) through its network of associations, a constitutional bill to make recognize the serious and permanent disadvantage of islandity. Certainly the resources deriving from the cut of nine Sardinian parliamentarians will not be decisive for our fate, even if they were all paid into the coffers of the Sardinian Region, and we know that this will not be the case. It is only a demagogic race that destroys popular representation, while nothing is done to reorganize and efficiency the state machine. Sardinia - I say this out of absurdity - could also give up all Members if in return the serious and permanent disadvantage resulting from insularity were recognized. If there were a written rule in our Constitution, Sardinia could introduce an advantage tax and activate those measures necessary to support its economy. Above all, it is essential to ensure effective equality and real enjoyment of the individual and inalienable rights of Sardinian citizens. Today Sardinian citizens have an average income that is just over half the Italian one and a rate of unemployment and poverty 50% higher than the Italian one. These figures cannot be attributed to the Sardinian parliamentarians, who, in the vast majority, are people who commit themselves to their own territory. The cut in the number of Members will not change these negative numbers. On the contrary, measures of permanent advantage, also in order to avoid the vetoes of the European Union, can only be introduced with the recognition in Constitution of the insularities. To this they will be able to follow the tangible initiatives to support the economy of our territories, with real resources and not with electoral ads, like this constitutional bill. I suggest to President Calderoli, who as a surgeon has embarked on the path of constitutional reforms, to support the constitutional proposal of insularity presented in October 2018 and to incorporate that principle into our Constitution. Only in this way can we really have an advantage from the law for insularity, which, as a permanent disadvantage, could turn into a situation of equality vis-à-vis the rest of the national and European territory. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u49	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am fully aware that constitutional reforms - even the most constitutional of constitutional reforms - also have immediate and contingent consequences for the political struggle. And I am equally aware that many of those who support this reform do so with arguments and beliefs that, in my eyes, have nothing noble; among them, a demagogic attack on the political class (the same one that, for example, animated the cut of vitality). I have always felt, however, that when we talk about constitutional reforms we must distance ourselves from an excessively empirical and approximate approach and see the underlying, if not long, at least medium-term reasons. In this conviction I was comforted by the fact that those who did not follow this approach paid the price. I am and remain convinced, for example, that if there had been a greater detachment from the immediate reasons of politics and a greater consideration of the fundamental elements of the system, the reform proposed by the Renzi Government would probably have had a different outcome, there would have been a different willingness to listen and there would have been no errors in Marchan even from a purely constitutional point of view. That is why, precisely because I believe that system reasons take precedence over contingent motivations, I also believe that yesterday President Bernini was right in asking this House to discuss together the different reforms, currently in Parliament's attention, which affect our constitutional structure and its different powers. From this organic debate, in fact, we would have gained an overall picture and we would have better grasped the correlations between the different topics that are proposed to this House and which, however, impact on the constitutional balances. Having said all this, in order to live up to this approach, I personally refer to a deep conviction, which is not from this last period but which the current legislature has strongly confirmed. I am a passionate supporter of representative democracy and I believe that it is in deep crisis. A historical crisis, a crisis that is not linked to contingent reasons but to dynamics that have to do with the development of a civilization. Basically, there are two underlying reasons for this crisis. The first is that representative democracy is a designation of competence: it is accepted to be represented at a time when it is believed that there are those who, at least in a given area, have more competences than you, or at least that there is a need for a time dedicated to deepening certain topics, time that the common citizen, who has other occupations, does not have at his disposal. This is one of the cornerstones that led representative democracy to imagine the prohibition of the imperative mandate. I design you and give you confidence - and here is the second factor that signals a crisis - and, therefore, I decide to judge you for what you have done after a certain period of time. I leave you free in your determinations as a parliamentarians (again, the prohibition of mandatory mandate), but, after five years, or at the end of a parliamentary term, I take back the sceptre of the sovereign and judge you. Not immediately, act by act, but for what has been your behavior. What disassembles these basic reasons for representative democracy today? First of all, what a brilliant historian has designated as "the democracy of narcissism," that is, the conviction, fueled also by the new media of mass communication, of omniscience, of being able to speak about everything, of being able to judge everything and of not needing someone to represent you and who is more competent than you. It is a drift that we see on a daily basis on social networks, but we can also see in this House. The elderly among those who occupy these schools will realize that there has been a change in the organization of the work because the specializations, those that referred to certain subjects, which were much more significant in the past legislatures, have gradually faded. There were few political leaders who thought they could talk about everything; for the rest there were medical experts, those who had foreign policy skills, and so on. It is an attitude that we are losing because it is clearly a tendency of society that on social networks is much more accentuated. The second reason for the caesura, which is perhaps even more important, lies in the fact that that area of sedimentation of political judgment, without which there is no representative democracy, has gradually narrowed down and is likely to disappear altogether. Today the judgment is almost immediate, so the possibility that a Member of Parliament may in some way orient himself according to his own convictions and not according to the instant judgment of his constituents is extremely limited. This is because decisions are faster in today's society, public orientations are known much earlier, and tools such as social networks push in this direction. President, I would ask you to have two more minutes. I would like to say that this is the reason why those who believe in representative democracy may not end up in a conservation attitude. There is no doubt that a leaner Parliament is a Parliament in which we decide first and in which there is more efficiency and, perhaps, it is also possible to rediscover more competences. It is clear that other reasons that follow the principle of representation, some of which have been brilliantly cited, would be sacrificed, but in certain historical moments it must be understood that a sacrifice is still necessary. This can also be the beginning of a reform of our parliamentary system, which we still need. We rejected it last time for reasons which I still consider to be absolutely valid, but I think that reform is needed. And I think that narrower numbers can lead, for example, to greatly broaden the case-law of measures to be taken in common sitting, helping to make bicameralism take on a new impetus. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Quagliariello, I invite you to conclude. Mr Quagliarello (FI-BP). Yes, ma'am. I say a very last thing that is part of the absolutely contingent and not fundamental arguments to which I have referred. In the short term we will be discussing the so-called pro-active referendum, and on that ground I see, if the measure does not change, a much greater danger for those who believe in the principles of representative democracy. Getting to that battle without an attitude of conservation, trying to distinguish between the various constitutional provisions in our examination what can be granted, and perhaps it must be granted, from what affects the ground of a non-negotiable principle, I believe that it is, from a tactical point of view, a wiser attitude for those who truly believe in this historical stormyness to be able to defend the principles of representative representation and representative democracy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u51	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a crisis of representative democracy is an objective fact. Is the current institutional framework inadequate? Absolutely. And this is first of all because of the technological, economic, social and even anthropological changes that go through not only our country, but certainly the whole West. The form of government is certainly also under discussion. Colleagues, you are the Government of Change, but the fact that this form of Government is arranged every hour is evident to all of us. There have been countless attempts to respond to this situation in order to seek a new institutional framework, and you too have begun to make choices, but you have responded to this substantial problem by pursuing a widespread feeling. Is there a crisis of representation? Give it to the political class! I do not know if it will produce consensus, but it certainly does not enable this democracy to give the answers that the country needs. I think it's very obvious, even in the work you do every day with your government. Make a commercial intervention and away from a completed design, a breakup of the Constitution. According to the moments and stages, in fact, all those who are sitting here, representing different sides, have taken a position in favour of reducing the number of parliamentarians. What's the matter? In what context does this reduction of Members of Parliament take place, with regard to representative democracy? Mr Quagliarello, whom I greatly appreciate, said that we could work better on skills. Senator, the problem of skills is linked to the quality of the selection of the political class, which in turn is linked to the way in which politics is organised. It is clear that from this point of view we are in a very critical situation. I am not at all sure that with 200 senators and 400 Members of Parliament, we are making the most of our competence. I don't think she's sure about that either. What is the point I propose? This bill certainly widens the gap between the elected and the electorate, which is central to the democracy of representation. Moreover, with the material barrier threshold, with this electoral law, we will have barriers of 10, 12% or 16% depending on the territorial conditions. Objectively from this I should understand that you agree on an objective reduction of political pluralism, because it is inevitable that with a de facto barrier that comes to those percentages, the dialectic between opposition and majority will be reduced, while pluralism is a central element of the concept of representation. What is the result of all this? Some of my colleagues spoke earlier about the relationship between direct democracy and representative democracy. The fact that we need to intervene on this is out of the question. You have to build a new synthesis, but I don't see the drawing. Minister, I take advantage of your presence. I don't see the drawing. I see, in fact, the reduction of Members of Parliament. The mechanism of the proposed referendum - which I agree with in some respects - on the subject will reduce Parliament's legislative possibility in a condition that is absolutely permeable to the lobbyists and the strongest powers, not to the people. You are building a democracy in the name of the people but, in truth, they will be the strongest powers that will become people. I do not know how this statement sounds to you, which will also be extreme, but some concern should raise it to you. Moreover, if we look at practice, why does this House not work? But it is clear: because the majority never agree with anything. Before an agreement is reached, all Parliament's time is used up, and when one arrives in the Commission or in this House, one can only push a button. That is the truth and you know it very well. Just think of how the budget law was passed, a historical fact in this country. I do not want to reopen that wound, but I would be curious to know how many of us have been able to read the draft budget law in twenty-four hours, which is profoundly changed. That's why it doesn't work, because there's a political crisis. It's a political crisis. You of the Movimento 5 Stars - I say this with a joke - have, rightly in my opinion, posed the problem of a radical change in the politics and the work of the institutions. You opened the can of tuna, but now you're drowning in oil. We are faced with a worrying twist. I would like - given that narratives and speeches are words - to take you back to a concrete fact about differentiated autonomy. Beyond what you think, ladies and gentlemen, about differentiated autonomy, which undoubtedly changes the institutional structure of the country, this Parliament has so far had no element to make real and merit assessments. I would point out, with regard to the proposed referendum, that if there were to be a law on autonomy in the terms we are talking about - and perhaps, I do not know, we could not even amend it - that law cannot even be submitted to a referendum. We are talking about Parliament's legislative powers. The regions that will have that autonomy will be able to legislate without any limits shared from the point of view of regional legislation. I'm for autonomy, but I'm for autonomy in an implant. We need to know how this ends. We need to know how to achieve a balance, because democracy is made up of weights and counterweights, balances, relationships, a coherent system, not incursions into the Constitution, without a design. Unless your plan is to narrate direct democracy and fade democracy. That's what I'm very worried about. For this reason, I ask you to think again about whether it is not possible to build another path of constitutional reform. Perhaps we could find more serious and more qualified summaries to give quality to democracy and representation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the position of Brothers of Italy has always been very clear. We have always been in favour of cutting the number of Members, and I would remind this House that we have also tabled a legislative proposal on this issue. Perhaps today someone will be disappointed by the Brothers of Italy, thinking that we could have subtracted ourselves from the vote on this reform and that we could use our votes as an exchange commodity to get I don't know what, but we never posed this problem. Our Group is convinced of the need to reduce the number of Members, because we believe that this Parliament is among the most populous in Europe. We are always very clear and continue to follow our beliefs and ideals. Soon Giorgia Meloni will attend a press conference in which he will explain exactly our positions. Of course, however, we must say that this reform is limp because, with the cut of the Members, it will happen that the colleges will be much larger, so that every Member will have more voters to represent. But we do not like lame or crooked things and we have always supported and continue to argue that, at the same time, in order to give more balance to the state and democracy, we should also have foreseen the direct election of the President of the Republic. Unfortunately, this has not been accepted, even if we do not understand the reasons for it. To foresee today the direct election of the President of the Republic by the Italians would have meant to strike a more balanced democracy and to establish a greater balance with Parliament as well. With regret we note that those in the government do not consider it right and we regret it. We will continue the battle on the direct election of the President of the Republic and move forward on what has always been our position. However, I would like to point out to the representatives of the Government and to my colleagues, especially those of the 5 Star Movement, that they have always waged a great battle on privileges, that today they have not had the courage to eliminate the true privilege present in this branch of Parliament, that is, the senators for life. You have missed this courage. I quote an example for everyone: I remember that Senator Monti, before accepting the position of President of the Council, asked the Head of State at the time to be appointed Senator for life. We believe that the real waste is the senators for life, for whom the Italians will always pay and we do not understand why. So I say to my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars that their flag on cutting waste and privileges will come out of this House today a long time ago. If the cutting of waste and the battle against privileges are for you the first political form to be presented to your voters, perhaps it does not suit you and you lack the courage of those who have positions in which they believe to the full, because today it would have been nice to be able to eliminate even the senators for life, of which I assure you the Italians would not feel the lack. We're sorry that, once again, you missed a chance. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Calderoli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u53	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u54	Mr President, this debate could be resolved quickly through a collection of opinions on social media. Of course, most Italians would ask, not already to reduce the number of Members to 400 and to 200 that of the senators, but to bring them to 100, to 50 or probably even to zero. The need, in fact, is also a little 'to satisfy a popular anxiety, sometimes however justified by the bad evidence that the political class has given in many cases. The phenomena of corruption, scandals, the events that have led to indignation towards politics are before everyone's eyes, some are well founded and others are then unfounded in the courts. We have seen that the judiciary that judged politics has given bad proof of itself, we read day after day the events of the MSC, that many of us had already denounced many years ago, without having to wait for the use of the trojan, events that are sometimes crimes and sometimes perhaps not, but they give a split of moral order. We are therefore all fully aware that the reduction in the number of Members is very popular. Yesterday I dealt with a senator who the House does not know: Riccardo Gigante. He was the mayor of Rijeka and one of the main collaborators of D'Annunzio in the Fiumana company, of which in 2019 the centenary occurs. Giant was killed in 1945 by the titines and his remains were thrown into a pit in one of the many places in the area of the foibe of the eastern border. His alleged remains were found some time ago, due to the commitment of the associations of the Istrians, the exiles and the rivers, in Castua, 12 kilometers from Rijeka. These associations have addressed me, as a Member of Parliament, so that we could understand if those remains could really be those of Senator Gigante. The armed forces (some were also military) had collaborated in this search of the remains and the day before yesterday the chief of staff of the Vecciarelli Armed Forces, which I would like to thank on this occasion, said that the remains found were some of the members of the carabinieri killed with Senator Gigante and some of the senator himself. His remains will be taken to Vittoriale, where his burial was already planned for some time. Why am I telling this? Because this story put on social media got little attention and few clicks. Yet it is an important story: it is a person unjustly killed in 1945, a protagonist - you can judge it as you want - of moments in European history with the story of the River and D'Annunzio. It is, however, history of the last century, you put it on the net and it has a modest interest. I put it on purpose; my collaborators said that no one would look at it, but it doesn't matter to me: it must be put, because it is a testimony and a story. When I put that I eat pizza or other things - I do it sometimes too - likes explode; If I yell a little more about immigration, we're fine there too. I want to say that the mechanisms of social media are important, but not decisive: if we say: 'we hunt all parliamentarians', we would be much more successful than proposing to reduce them by a third. Today, on the problem of social networks, Giulio Mogol, the president of SIAE, has spoken, denouncing - I address, in this regard, to the members of the Government - the lack of taxation of the giants of the web, who plunder the copyright. SIAE is concerned, because music authors, newspaper publishers, cinema, which is in crisis, culture and knowledge, creativity that must also be rewarded, are plundered by web giants. The European Union has issued a directive and the Italian Government has opposed that directive, because you want to give sovereignty from Parliament to the giants of the network, who steal copyright, steal democracy and who induce us all to photograph us with pizza or nutella because it is sympathetic, which I sometimes do provocatively. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I am aware of the unpopular nature of Parliament's defence as such. I could add some of the arguments that some of my colleagues have introduced. We, as Forza Italia and as a center-right, carried out a global reform, then, the events of the global reforms were unfortunate, both when we did it a few years ago (confirmative referendum rejected it), and when we tried the center-left (it was also rejected) and the government, Parliament, CNEL and so on were reformed. It is probably difficult to travel a train with many cars, but here a car passes only with punitive intents and also of mutilation of representation: in some regions it will take 12 percent to be represented. Therefore, democracy and representativeness are killed. Are costs the theme? Days ago I met an alternative energy operator who said that only insulation and a more correct use of buildings, with the related problems of urban regeneration, would generate savings in energy costs, even by public structures: other than reduction of parliamentarians! Are the costs the problem? Let's reduce costs. We keep Parliament as it is, reducing costs by a third. I have been a political militant since I was a boy and I have been in Parliament for a long time, but I have not gone into politics to be a Member, a Senator or anything else. I don't have the problem of remuneration. I consider myself a lucky citizen for the many electoral mandates with preferences, with colleges, with blocked lists, in every way, in the European Parliament, at municipal councils: electoral systems can change. I believe that today we are faced with a compression of representation without introducing real elements of direct democracy. I come from a political tradition that fought for the election of the mayor when it was considered a sacrilege, then for the election of the President of the Republic, of a Head of Government: that is direct democracy, not the arranged combined fraud of referendum and of the Network that was first described by some colleagues. I am not afraid of a rebalancing between parliamentary democracy and direct democracy, but I am thinking of a true and transparent direct democracy, not that kind of Rousseau platform or giants of the network! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Then I have a doubt: you do not want to tax the giants of the net and you want to continue the looting of copyright, then they are those giants of the net with which you play a little 'exercise democracy. I do not contest anyone's right to rely on the XY platform for the decisions of their own party, but when they pour into the institutions (because they direct parliamentary votes and the adoption of laws) I wonder what transparency is, such as guarantees. Parliament, either beautiful or ugly, large or small, is nevertheless the result of an electoral system, of citizens' participation. The electoral laws have changed them, we have adopted of all kinds, there is not a perfect one, dear colleagues, otherwise one country would have copied it from the other: if there are preferences there is the risk of running for money and the vote of exchange; removing the preferences the citizen does not count. Each electoral law has a vulnus, a weak point, as well as colleges and primary. Every time we make the primary (we are currently discussing it in our party) the journalist arrives and explains how he voted in ten gazebos at the consultations of this or that party. We defend a concept of representativeness, not caste. I know that if I said I was here to abolish all Members, I would have 50,000 clicks outside, while if I talk about Senator Riccardo Gigante or other things there is probably disinterest, but political life and that in the institutions is made up of various topics. We consider this partial reform to be wrong, which compresses freedom and reduces representativeness without adding direct presidential democracy, which is true. I don't want to delegate to Bezos, Zuckerberg or others the decision on a country's democracy, because if one is worth one, those are worth a lot, they don't pay taxes. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I read that one of them divorced and had to give his wife (blessed her) $38 billion. [[Comments of Senator Papatheu]] It is Bezos (Senator Papatheu helped me): blessed she, she will have right, she will have helped to form that wealth, but maybe they must give some money to all the governments that did not tax them and maybe that money gives them, in some other way. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are faced with a debate not on how many senators and Members there are, but on what democracy is, on the balance between direct democracy and representative democracy, on presidentialism which, dear colleagues of the Brothers of Italy, has been removed from this debate, because those who govern today do not want true direct democracy with the vote of the people, of the citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I do not want either the Rousseau platform or the Berlusconi platform, if there were hypotheticals; I want the one with the real citizens voting. Then they will elect 400 or 600, or 48 representatives. Do not compare with the United States that has 100 senators, because accounting for all the assemblies in the American states are thousands and thousands of elected. If you want to adopt the American model, let's do it: we'll make a Senate with 100 representatives, then we'll have to do everything else. We believe that there is a vulnus in this reform, because this intervention is done without everything else, that is, without presidentialism, transparency in the mechanisms of the network, a taxation of the web. I realize that I have approached different topics (from Senator Riccardo Gigante to the divorce of Bezos), but we are talking about democracy, freedom and representativeness. We are not defending ourselves or a plethora of parliamentarians, but saying that this is a scam. It's like the pizza post: do the pizza post, we do something else. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u55	Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u56	Mr President, we think that a fundamental question arises over this debate, the following: was the reduction in the number of Members proposed to us designed to improve the functioning of Parliament or was it designed to empty and mortify Parliament? We believe that this is the question we are faced with and, of course, the answer we are giving is that this reform has been conceived in the greatest disinterest in how Parliament will function with its implementation and with the pervicacious will to give pickaxes to the dignity and prerogatives of the Chambers. If that were not true, two things would have happened in terms of merit and method. As far as the substance is concerned, for example, our amendments would have been accepted, and I am going to talk about them later; detailed amendments, starting with the acceptance of a large part of the proposals that the majority made and tried to make sense of them. You will remember, however, that our amendments have not only not been accepted, but, with an act that still burns us, have been declared inadmissible (according to what criterion we have not yet understood correctly). We have been prevented even from discussing it. As far as the method is concerned, if the will had been to improve together the way in which Parliament works and to reduce its costs, we would have accepted our proposal, made at the last Conference of the Leaders, to discuss this reform together with the other constitutional reforms that are being considered by Parliament, at an overall sitting that covered the legal order of our State and the changes that can be brought to the Constitution. But it has been decided to say "no" to this proposal too, because of course the current majority does not have in mind to make a reform: it has designed the manufacture of a commercial, yet another commercial that serves to confuse the ideas of Italians and to send distorted messages to public opinion. We are convinced, as I said, that there is a plan for the mortification of Parliament in place, which has the will to attack the rules for the protection of minorities, the counterpowers, the independent authorities. Moreover, what interest can it have in the safeguarding of liberal, representative, parliamentary democracy, for example, who, as the effective Head of this Government, who is also Head of the League, exercises daily in the aggression against the separation of powers? He does this by attacking minority parliamentarians, because they stage a protest to him unwelcome, pretending to interfere in the decisions of the judiciary on the restriction of personal freedom or ignoring the sentences that oblige his party to return 49 million euros that were stolen from the Italians. We see a daily attack on representative democracy by those who have the keys to this Government and therefore we are not surprised that there is the greatest disinterest in the reform of Parliament and the greatest interest in the attack on Parliament. And we also understand that very little interest in the reform of Parliament has the other political leader of this Government, very subordinate to the former, who, without any embarrassment, has endorsed, propitiated and promoted the undemocratic enslavement of entire parliamentary groups to a Srl which has a opaque and obscure functioning. We had seen, in the history of this country, the companies that lend themselves to being a political branch of a party, we remained to see the parties that become political branches of companies: with the Movimento 5 Stars we have also seen this show. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is clear that those who cultivate the project of a democracy without balance cultivate an authoritarian project of fact: things must be called by their name and we are not afraid to do so. I have listened to what Mr Fraccaro has said these days, whom I greet and thank for his presence, and I have listened to what some members of the majority have said: we have been told, for example, that we are thinking, with this reform, of improving the efficiency and productivity of Parliament. But excuse me, how can we say that we are thinking of improving the efficiency and productivity of Parliament if we reject any proposal from the minority, ours and other parties, to reform the bicameralism of equality? It is not serious to say that, given the parliamentary behavior that has taken place. It has been said that we are thinking of reducing costs. Attention: all our proposals were based on the assumption of accepting an overall number of parliamentarians such as the one proposed by the majority, but reducing the number of parliamentarians in a series of serious interventions. I would like to remind you of the proposals we have made: for example, we said that we would bring Members to 400 and Senators to 200, but that we would differentiate the functions between the two Chambers, and that the Presidents of the Region should intervene at Senate sessions when the Senate had to deal with matters relating to the organization and functioning of territorial authorities. We have proposed, as an alternative, the differentiation of functions, in the sense of giving only to the Chamber of Trustees. We have proposed to the House - our representatives have done so - the hypothesis of the transition to a single camera system, with a single legislative chamber of 500 members, so even less than those that we will have after this reform, and the transformation of the Senate into the Chamber of Autonomies, with representatives chosen by the Regions. None of these proposals have been accepted because you are also not credible in terms of costs. Then, I'm sorry, how can you talk to us about concern over your costs? If you were really concerned about the costs, you would try to reduce not the number of parliamentarians but the number of your members who, with statements on mini-BOTs, the opportunity to raise public debt to 200 percent of GDP or the opportunity to get out of the euro, make us pay billions of euros more interest on public debt every year. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If you really care about the costs, you should intervene in reducing the costs of words in freedom, which is the real serious issue that weighs on our public budget today. In fact, if you reduced words to freedom, you would save ten times as much money as you would save in 20 years with the reduction in the number of Members. But that's not what you're interested in. I think that, for the reasons given, we are faced not only with a dangerous act but also with a patron sausage. The act is dangerous also because I read a statement by Minister Fraccaro that said that with less seats there will be more democracy: if the problem had been to give more democracy, would what has been done, for example, in terms of mortification of the small regions of this country, that they will find themselves so compressed in the representation that they have not, in a Senate with full legislative powers, no representative of the opposition? [[Applause from the PD Group]] If there had been regard for democracy, would we have remained deaf as happened to the objections and considerations that came from the representatives of Italians abroad? If we had been careful about democracy, would we have accepted the deformity of the college that elects the President of the Republic that we will have instead? There was no focus on democracy. And it is not true that, with fewer seats, there is more democracy, because it depends on how the intervention is done, and in this case it has been done in a reckless, superficial and improvised manner, according to the same principles that we have seen operating, for example, in the constitutional reform that introduces the proposed referendum. We will probably examine it in a few weeks' time and we will see how, with that reform, the prerogatives of the President of the Republic are attacked and the power to postpone the laws is removed, the repealing referendum is emptied, the prerogatives of Parliament are emptied, referendums can be organised without head or tail on spending, tax, criminal and international treaties laws, that is, a blow to parliamentary and constitutional democracy in Italy. They're two pieces of the same design. I'm just going to give you an example of the greatest patron sausage you make. This bill is linked to a reform of our electoral law, to make it immediately applicable even in the event of very close elections. We will therefore have an electoral law with single-member colleges which, for example, in the case of Friuli-Venezia Giulia will be 1.2 million inhabitants. Attention to democracy? When electoral campaigns are made more expensive and the electorate is removed from the electorate to such a serious and resounding extent, there is contempt for democracy, not attention. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Finally, I have two hopes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u57	I invite you to conclude, Senator Parrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u58	Mr Parrini (PD). I would ask you for two more minutes, Mr President, to express two hopes, even considering that this is the only intervention of our Group because we wanted to mean our irritation and our discomfort for not having had acceptance of our proposal for a single session. The first hope I express is the following: everything I have told so far is taking place in the almost absolute silence of most of the community of scholars, lawyers and academics of our country, that in other times I remember being much more talkative. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I hope that this silence will cease and that it will be found, also on the part of these people (to whose opinion we are always very careful), a greater ability to affect the debate that is taking place on these issues of such burning relevance and topicality, because, then, there is not a second opportunity to prevent such an attack to the end. The second hope I express - and this is the last point in my speech - concerns the Members of Parliament of the majority in law and also the majority in fact that we have to say goodbye from today, because it is no longer yellow-green but yellow-green-black. Well, many of you have entered Parliament with high and good intentions; but is it really, in the face of everything that is taking place, in accordance with your dignity and your role to accept to be waiters at such an unbecoming banquet? Is it not convenient for you, for Parliament and for the country, for you to find the strength to rebel against this operation? We have no sign that this is for the future, but a reading is still missing; a lot of water must still pass under the bridges. We hope that the same alarm for the balance of representative democracy, which we feel and which we have tried here to express with the utmost composure, but also with great care, may enter into your souls and lodge you for the sufficient time to make you the right choice. For the moment, we're seeing a series of wrong choices. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u59	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u60	Mr President, our Group also wants to make a brief contribution to this important debate, to this change in the Constitution. In this legislature, too, the need has emerged to put our Constitutional Charter to change the structure of the two chambers, the Senate of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies. Indeed, this is not a structural change in the functioning of Parliament, but a simple reduction, a linear cut, in the number of Members of Parliament, and therefore of the senators and Members of Parliament. It means, as has been mentioned, reducing from 630 to 400 Members and from 315 to 200 senators. From the point of view of a small border Alpine reality such as mine and that of my colleagues in the Südtirol, the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, this numerical change does not affect the representation of our territories and therefore we certainly have the guarantee that we have a fair presence in Parliament, also in view of the fact that we represent linguistic minorities that are protected by Article 6 of the Constitution. However, if we look outside our regional borders, this linear cut in the number of Members actually - we have heard it in several speeches - could lead to under-representation in some territories and could reveal insufficient guarantees of representation and we are also here to strongly support the reasons of the Slovenian minority, which is actually under-represented and perhaps not represented with this possible change. We therefore hope that the majority will also be attentive to this particular portion of our territory, which is representative of an important linguistic minority. The reduction in the number of parliamentarians is certainly one of the policy points with which all political forces, including those of us self-employed, have come to the elections and not just to them. We also stress the need to promote a rationalization of the costs of politics, and the idea itself is not wrong, but acceptable. However, a reduction in the number of parliamentarians, untied by a genuine reform of the functioning of the Senate and the House, such as overcoming the perfect bicameralism, risks giving birth to the reform. We do not want, moreover, to abandon the idea of assigning different functions to the two chambers and to think, for example, of a Senate of the representation of the territories, a Senate of the Regions and the autonomous ones, in order to tend to a true reform of this country, that for us, for me, who belong to an autonomous and federalist historical movement like the Union Valdôtaine, and for the colleagues of the Südtirol, who belong to another historical force such as the Südtiroler Volkspartei, this reform can only be federalism, a subject - unfortunately - I address the other part of the Chamber - cooled. I hope that there will be a desire to return to this important issue, a model that, for us, could give a real dignity to all the territories of this State, in a spirit of responsibility in the management of resources and, at the same time, a true vertical subsidiarity, which could truly represent the alternative to a model of State that swings between centralism and a regionalism never convinced, model that stands with these uncertainties, making precisely uncertain the structure of our country and slowing down a real revival. Our judgment on this measure is therefore a judgment, all in all, of sharing, although we still consider it insufficient to give our country a more modern and effective constitutional aspect. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u61	Senator Rojc is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very important to draw this House's attention once again to the impact of the constitutional change that the Senate is discussing at second reading. Within a few months delicate balances have been modified that the constituent legislative essay had been able to build in the critical scenario of the post-war. The question, repeatedly highlighted, of the political representation of the indigenous Slovenian-speaking national minority that insists in the Region under special statute of Friuli-Venezia Giulia is very serious and serious and I thank the Senators Parrini and Laniece for having remembered it. The constituent legislator had wisely considered protecting this reality. You want to crush it: you tried with the press and now you want to take away our right to stand. The recognition of special autonomy, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the inclusion of this principle among the fundamental principles of the Republic are expressed, as already mentioned, in Article 6 of the Constitution, according to which the Republic protects linguistic minorities with appropriate rules. This is a commitment, a programmatic commitment that has led to the adoption of positive protection measures in the Special Statutes and in the laws implementing the Constitution, such as Law No 38 for Slovenians 23 February 2001. The approval of the constitutional changes, with the reduction of a third of the number of parliamentarians, is such as to compress the forms of protection of the Slovenian minority and not only and I would also like to speak on behalf of Senator Cucca, for the Region of Sardinia. With the proposed amendment, the basic requirement would be to allow Slovenes in Italy to participate freely and autonomously in electoral competitions and to contribute, in accordance with constitutional principles, to elect a representative in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, the only responsible attitude is to stop this reform, which, in my opinion, goes beyond the limits of the constitutional revision process, affecting that hard core of constitutional principles enshrined in the fundamental principles of the constitutional order. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u63	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have two feelings. I'm angry and disappointed. I use the term angry orthodox for respect to this House, although it does not actually make my mood. However, we are in the Senate Chamber of the Republic and, therefore, that is all right. A great opportunity is being missed, that of putting hand, in a surgical but effective and efficient way, to our Constitution. In Parliament there is a movement, today in the government, which makes the cost cut of politics a battlehorse. There is also the Forza Italia Group, which already in 2005 showed that it was absolutely aware of the need for a numerical adjustment of the parliamentary representation, but not in isolation with a cut in the number of parliamentarians, but with a system that would make the legislative process easy, streamlined and effective. Then there is an opposition force, the Democratic Party, which, even in its constitutional reform, rejected as ours by the electoral corps, had foreseen a cut in the number of parliamentarians. What better way, then, to make our institution, in a surgical and necessary way, an organism adapted to the times, than to launch a reform that would take care of this need? We said this at first reading in the Commission when, at the request of the President to schedule this constitutional bill, all the groups agreed. We have therefore shown willingness to carry out this project. With the utmost respect and esteem for President Calderoli, I must say that it seems to me that the reason for the fact that, since two overall drafts of constitutional reform have been drawn up, then rejected by the electoral body, it is preferable to do them in pieces and bites. This is not how the institutions work, nor is it a Parliament that has the sense of responsibility to make laws that serve and above all modify the Constitution in a progressive and modern way, and not just to respond to an electoral need. I am angry, therefore, because a great opportunity has been missed, in which perhaps all this Parliament could have made a real and concrete contribution and, for once, would have won the institutions and the country. I am also disappointed by my colleagues in the League, who have shared with us a path of constitutional reform, which could not and cannot be limited only to the reduction of parliamentarians, but also the problem of the form of government, an electoral law that guarantees territorial representativeness and does not unbalance the electoral body, for example in the election of the President of the Republic. The friends of the League have made with us a path of constitutional reform that ended with an overall bill, for which we did not pose the problem of cutting, purely and simply to reduce the costs of politics. On the other hand, we have raised the question of how to ensure real representativeness, because in a representative democracy the fundamental question is not the costs, but the representation of the electoral body, which you absolutely do not take into account. If we do the same thing with the other constitutional reform, that of the proposed referendum that you have also carried out with chunks and bites, we realize that your plan is to destroy Parliament and the representativeness of the Italian people! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] You repeal Parliament, then, if you have the courage and implement a form of direct democracy: our Constitution is a mix of representation and direct participation, but you are mortifying and raping it, making it inapplicable, and of this, one day, you will pay the political bill. What did we tell you at first reading? We had given you the opportunity and we voted in favour of it, in order to prevent a requirement that even Forza Italia had not suspected in time and carried on from becoming the result of another political force; but we had made you an opening of credit, but we did not tell you, to change the whole Constitution. In part, what he said is acceptable, Mr Calderoli, but not totally: we asked you to make two or three speeches that did not make the cut of Members unnecessary. The first is about the electoral law: in 2005, when we reduced the number of parliamentarians, we made a reverse reasoning to yours; we wondered what representation was to be guaranteed on the territory and, on that minimum representation, we compared the number of parliamentarians (for this reason we have reached 518 MPs and 252 senators). You did not do so or remedy an electoral law which, as it is, is unbalanced and does not guarantee representation. It is not true, as I have also heard from some of the Group's colleagues, that that numerical percentage corresponds to that of the Members of Parliament. I am referring to the elections to the Senate, where the distribution is regional: with the electoral law that you have applied and modified, making it feasible for this reform too, in order to have a representative sometimes it will take even 10%; other than proportion, violate the principle of representativeness. Can we then liquidate and store everything, claiming that it is a cost-cutting and economic need? Yes, it is likely that EUR 40-50 million will be saved, but are we not aware of the expenditure needed to adapt the legislative machinery and of the fact that costs, instead of decreasing, could rise? Do we not also realize that the elected electoral relationship is increasing, providing for a representative of the Chamber of Deputies 150,000 voters and one of the Senate 300,000? Doesn't that cost a lot in the election campaign? I would like to ask the friends of the League, who make direct contact with the territory and with the voters a battlehorse, how they will justify their representatives that there will be no longer the possibility of reaching a parliamentarians quickly and having their presence and of violating the relationship between elected and elected. As far as lower costs are concerned, does reducing simply the number of Members of Parliament produce efficiency? I do not think so, because it will have to be assessed by the future regulations, which will have to adapt this reduction. Do you also reduce the number of parliamentarians without putting a hand on the perfect bicameralism: what would it take, President Calderoli, to prepare another constitutional bill that would provide for the legislative power of the Chamber and not of the Senate or the repeal of the Senate, leaving unchanged the number of parliamentarians in the Chamber, or still differentiated competences for Chamber and Senate? You didn't, so our availability and our credit opening have also been violated. The measure before us is not a constitutional reform that will do justice, but it is part of a plan that I would call criminal, along with what is boiling in pot and which we will probably deal with in the next few days and which we will oppose with all our strength. For our sense of responsibility we will have the burden of explaining to the citizens that what you are doing today is not a constitutional reform, but a scam on the democratic right of representation and a violation of Parliament and the institutions. We warned you and put you on the road to rethink it: you are still in time to do it, do it; otherwise, take on all the responsibilities. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u67	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure, I request that the general debate be closed in advance and that the explanations of vote and the final vote be taken. Apparently, there is a strong determination on the part of the majority to vote and the need for the measure is supported, so there is no reason to wait until tomorrow and unnecessarily lose one afternoon. Since we have to go towards these magnificent and progressive fates, let's go right now: you will surely all be ready, so let's move on to the vote now. I am counting on the support of the majority in particular, although perhaps someone from the opposition will disagree, and the Government's favourable opinion, authoritatively represented by Minister Fraccaro. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u70	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, we support the request from the Forza Italia Group to move immediately to the final voting phase.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u73	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, yesterday you attended the meeting and discussion of the Leaders. We had made a different proposal which, in our opinion, made more sense, namely a dedicated session, dealing with the measure together with that on the referendum. Things have been different, but at this point, I think it would be completely pointless to be here all afternoon without using the time available to us in this House. We therefore believe that the general debate can be closed and that explanations of vote can be put to the vote immediately.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u74	If there are no other interventions, the situation at the moment is as follows: from the de facto point of view, there is a final intervention to the closure of the debate; from the regulatory point of view, there is the request made by Senator Malan pursuant to Article 99, of which I cannot share his interpretation, because paragraph 3 refers to the case where the general discussion has not been limited in time or the limits have been exceeded, but at the Conference of the Capigroup, however, it has been intended to limit it, in the sense of ending it today; different is the request of President Marcucci to move to the vote anyway: in this case, it would be necessary at least to convene the Conference of the Capigroup to take a decision, because in that place it was decided to vote tomorrow. MALAN (FI-BP). The Rules of Procedure are no use, then. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Rules of Procedure are needed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u76	I am going to give you the floor again, but you may not agree with the interpretation, but it is the interpretation given by the Presidency. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u77	Let me intervene, since I am still here; then, when we are abolished, we will no longer be able to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u78	You know how I feel about this too, so don't force the interpretation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u79	MALAN (FI-BP). In Rule 99 it is written: "in the event that the discussion has not been limited in time" but there has been no limitation over time. Is there anyone who has asked to speak and has not been able or wants to speak over the ten minutes provided for in the Rules of Procedure? I don't see any limitations. You claim that the decision has been taken to vote on a certain date, but here we apply Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure and we are in this very situation. There is no shadow of a limitation of the general debate: I have no news of it and it is not in the Calendar or in the facts; I therefore ask you to vote in accordance with Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u80	Senator Malan, of course you cannot continue this dialogue between me and you, but to clarify the matter definitively to the House, I would point out that the interpretation that the Presidency gives of Rule 99 is not what you have just explained to us. It had been established by the Leaders that, however, by today, the general discussion would be exhausted and in this sense I interpret that a limit had been set. [[Comments of Senator Malan]] I have read it, the Rules of Procedure, and I do not need to read it again: then, if the request is to move to the vote, the sitting must be suspended. (Senator Malan throws a copy of the Senate Rules into a basket. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u83	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I appeal to the Presidency, because the text of the Rules of Procedure is very clear: it should kindly communicate to us who has been limited the speaking time and who is the subject, the Member or the Group who was prevented from speaking during the general debate; because this has not happened, this perfectly reflects the dictates of the Rules of Procedure. For me, any interpretation is fine and it is also very good to convene the Conference of the Leaders (but that is done immediately, but this is another subject). However, I am obliged, from my and my group's point of view, to agree with Senator Malan.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u84	I repeat that, since paragraph 3 does not refer to a single intervention, but to the rules governing the conduct of the Assembly's work, this remains the interpretation. With regard to the request to proceed directly to the vote, I would first have the general debate concluded and I would agree with the Presidency that the Conference of the Leaders should be convened and then communicate how we intend to proceed. Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u85	Mr President, I have a joke to make: we need the legal interpretation of a lawyer, and we have it in the Senate, like Niccolò Ghedini, who is perhaps absent today, strangely, because we were talking about competence and territorial representation. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Mr President, Minister, rapporteur, tomorrow we will take another very important step towards a virtuous path that began with this parliamentary term and continued with the signing of the government contract, one of the essential points of which is precisely some institutional reforms. Paragraph 20 of that contract provides for a drastic reduction in the number of Members (to 400 Members and 200 Senators), which we have been waiting for decades and does not in any way affect the supreme principle of representation, since direct election by universal suffrage by the people for both branches of Parliament would remain firm, without compromising its functions. This will also bring about significant reductions in expenditure. The same paragraph also talks about the constraint of mandate, in order to counter the ever-increasing phenomenon of transformation, and of the anticipation of new institutions of direct democracy and the strengthening of existing ones, without forgetting the strengthening of the tool of the popular legislative initiative. The proposal we have discussed here today must be assessed in this draft. The idea of reducing the number of Members is certainly not new. As you all know, the first attempt was that of the Bozzi Commission in 1983; the last, the one with which we wanted to make this House a shelter for regional councillors and mayors who had fallen into disgrace, failed miserably in 2016, despite the serious and worrying threat of withdrawing from the policy that the promoters had put forward, perhaps too optimistic. This idea, as I said, comes from afar, but the will, illustrious colleagues, is something else; as we know well here and as citizens know better than we do outside. The idea up until a few weeks ago was in the minds of all, majority and opposition; then the will, strangely, has gone down for some (let's say it has failed); today the grip that I have heard and on which many criticisms of the measure are based is that this cut would be an attack on democracy. Let's get some stuff in line, then. Should action be taken to rationalise the institutional structure? I absolutely think so. Is it time or not to limit one of the highest parliamentary density in the world? I think so. Let's face it all: are there any restrictions on the legislator's ability to drastically reduce the number of parliamentarians? Absolutely not. With this in mind, we are close to adopting a truly historic reform, which will enable Parliament to work better and in a much more efficient way. With less parliamentarians, they will have greater accuracy in the selection by the electorate, their greater recognizability and therefore independence from particular interests, which will make them able to best represent the demands of the country. Moreover, by cutting 345 MPs, we will get a savings of 500 million euros for each legislature: it is money taken away from the costs of politics in order to be destined to the ever-increasing needs of Italian citizens. I am very sorry to see that some political forces prefer to do the opposite of what they have promised, starting with the friends of the Democratic Party, who have actually opposed this reform from the very beginning, despite promising that MEPs will be cut off for many years. Mr Marcucci (PD). But you can't tell what you want! CASTALDI (M5S). Even more to blame are the behaviour and position of Forza Italia, who voted in favour of the text in the first two readings, until the European elections (so probably to deceive voters and citizens, I don't know), and now instead decided to oppose it; yet, he presented a bill by Senator Quagliariello that proposes exactly what we want to do today; bringing the House to 400 MPs and the Senate to 200 senators. In the first Commission, which I partly participated in, I listened - with interest and respect, which I hope will be mutual - to the good Senator Pagano, who said that the draft constitutional law under consideration does not intend to improve the quality and speed of legislative activity, but rather to support or even feed the feeling of anti-politics with demagogic aims. He added that it could even distort democratic representation, involve very costly electoral campaigns and fuel the risk of voting in exchange. I would like to ask you, Senator Pagano, if it produces more distorting effects from the point of view of democratic representation our reform or, for example, have the House elected, in the colleges of our Abruzzo - specifically in those of Pescara, Chieti and Vasto, which reappear the Costa dei trabocchi - a parachute of the hinterland of Campania named Gianfranco Rotondi from Avellino, which I believe is notoriously unrelated to Abruzzo; then, if I think about it, the link has it, when it is necessary to make regional lists (that is the link that Rotondi has with our Abruzzo). It may be that my statement is wrong, but I can continue. For example, I find it difficult to find links with our Region and the college where he was elected also for the distinguished Senator Quagliariello, elected in Abruzzo. Also on the other hand, in the Democratic Party - because it is a bipartisan practice - I would ask some Abruzzo people if they had the opportunity to verify, know and talk with Congressman Yoram Gutgeld, born in Tel Aviv and resident in Milan. I would also have a lot to say about transformations: we have a case in Abruzzo, that of the former undersecretary and former senator Chiavaroli, elected with the center-right, candidate and not elected, this time, with the center-left. This is only what happens in Abruzzo; but I do not know what happens in other regions. I would not even like to use empty-door assists of cases known throughout the national territory. There is one, which I mentioned earlier, that of Senator Niccolò Ghedini ghost from various legislatures; or, there are members of Etruscan origin placed to join Ötzi - I hope to have pronounced it well, Senator Steger - the man coming from the ice, present at the archaeological museum of Bolzano. In case I will ask the friends of the Group For the Autonomies if in Südtirol they are happy and they feel represented by Maria "Etruria" Boschi. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] Dear colleague Bellanova, who is reminding me, these are the actions that feed the feeling that you call anti-politics, certainly not a reform that takes away space from such behaviors, that smear the noble sense of politics. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senators Bellanova, Ferrari and Marcucci]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Rule 90, Mr President, Rule 90! CASTALDI (M5S). I repeat that these behaviors smear the noble sense of politics. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] FERRARA (M5S). Make a call, Mr President. CASTALDI (M5S). The opposition to this reform is totally incomprehensible and, I would say, unmotivated. [[Comments of Senator Marcucci]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u86	Senator Castaldi, finish your speech, staying on the subject and using consonious tones.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u87	CASTALDI (M5S). You have no reason to call me back, Mr President, I only told you the truth. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Let them judge who listens to you about the truths and keep a certain tone. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Colleagues, please. Please, Senator Castaldi, continue. CASTALDI (M5S). From 1983 to the present several Members of this House, as I see it, have used very badly the time, governments and various parliamentary majorities. Mr Marcucci (PD). I'm sure you guys are! FERRARA (M5S). Make a call, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency recalls when it is appropriate, as it is doing. Let us try to conclude this debate in an orderly manner, bearing in mind that we are dealing with important issues, so obviously there are interest and active participation, above which exuberance is not tolerated. Senator Castaldi, please stick to the subject, in the same tone as this House. CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I have taken this very seriously. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That is the view of the Presidency. CASTALDI (M5S). You judge better, because I stood by. [[Comments from the PD Group]] It is regrettable that such an important and necessary reform is about to be adopted. I think the country has endured forty years of manfrine in Parliament, in television and in newspapers. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Time has expired: less waste, more savings, efficiency and finally, I would say, a nineteenth legislature with fewer refugees who suppress representation for the territories. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u90	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, yesterday we had a long debate on Article 90, when we contested the diligence with which President Calderoli referred to it, at the time when the term 'buffoon' was used, the description of which we could also look into the dictionary. At the first mention of that term a reference to order was made, which then led to the subsequent calls. The previous senator has just given the following expression: behavior such as that of Mr Boschi, who has been a candidate in Bolzano, with the adoption of this law, will no longer be able to show the dignity of Parliament. I think that such an intervention is worthy of an equal call - indeed, worse - to what was done yesterday against Senator Pharaoh. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Beyond the merit of the content, it is entirely detrimental to a person who has the right to run where he decides together with his party. [[Senator Bellanova's protests are alive.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u91	In fact, Senator Castaldi was recalled by the Presidency first of all for the dignity of the function of all parliamentarians and was invited to conclude with the necessary tones. [[Senator Castaldi points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Castaldi, you have finished your speech; let the Presidency conclude. Why are you intervening? Mr Laus (PD). At the end of the session! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I am not giving him the floor, in fact, but leave the management of the order of business to the Presidency. Senator Castaldi, you have been called back so I won't give you the floor on this point. CASTALDI (M5S). Without controversy, on a personal note, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There's no personal matter. The presidency called her back. Let us continue now as it has been established. [[Vivacious protests from M5S and PD Groups]] . Parliamentary assistants intervene to separate some senators). The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u92	Mr President, I do not want to say too much in this climate, but I take advantage of it to thank Senator Caliendo, because throughout my life I have been told and done everything, but Father has never called me anyone yet. Knowing him as a worshiper and a professional of law, I thank him for this compliment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u93	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u94	Mr President, the Government is giving up its reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u97	[[Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] What's the matter, colleagues? I have already given my opinion on this. (Senator Castaldi approaches the president's scranno.) Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, what I have been saying for many months, namely that this approach of the whole Presidency towards this House encourages violence, is demonstrated by the attitude of colleagues in these hours. Just look at you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests and ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Applause from the PD Group.]] . PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marcucci, intervene on the order of business, if you think so. Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would like to stress once again that, in our opinion, the interpretation by the Offices and the Presidency of the request made by Mr Malan and supported by our Group is wrong. The first statement of my speech is confirmed by the attitude of my colleagues, who are always very democratic, as is in their custom. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u98	The situation is as follows: if we are to ask for an anticipation of the vote already scheduled for tomorrow with determination of the Conference of Leaders and following the vote of the Assembly, it is necessary to convene a new Conference of Leaders. Therefore, if there is such a request, I will of course be in touch with the President. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Ask, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u101	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, we confirm the request made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure by Senator Malan on behalf of our Group, also considering that we should proceed directly to the vote, because, as the Rule of the Rules of Procedure explains, which is very clear, there is no need for the filter of the Conference of Leaders which he called for. We therefore believe that we should proceed to the immediate vote. Otherwise, what kind of early closure are we talking about? [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Then, in the alternative, if you give a non-compliant interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, see what you have to do; for us you could now vote because colleagues have also arrived in this House. Mr Laus (PD). Bravo Gasparri!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u102	If I understand correctly, does the Forza Italia Group request the convening of the Conference of Leaders? CALIENDO (FI-BP). We ask you to vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is not me who wants to call it: to change the timetable, we need a determination of the Conference of Leaders; if there is this request, we ask for it to be convened; otherwise, we proceed on the agenda already voted, as I have already explained. NENCINI (Misto-PSI). It's not like that.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u105	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, we do not want to change the agenda; we call for a rule of the Rules of Procedure which allows us to vote in advance. The agenda remains the one set, but it changes the voting time with respect to a decision that the Rules of Procedure give to the House. We are not asking to change anything, but we are referring to the Rules of Procedure. That is very clear, and I would also like it to be clear to my colleagues. Everyone can then vote for or against, but we ask that the vote be brought forward under the Rules of Procedure, and the Conference of Leaders has nothing to do with it. The agenda remains as set out, we are on this point; the debate has ended, so we insist on our request.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u106	I finally clarify the question of interpretation, because it probably has not been done. Even if it had been decided to close the phase of the general debate in advance, it would not automatically have been possible to make explanations of vote and vote, that is the case. My question was precisely in this sense, since there was only one intervention missing at the end of the general debate; because, if the request had been to move to the vote immediately, that kind of determination would have been necessary. Now, I understand that there is no such request, so it goes on. I asked three times whether there was a request to convene the Conference of Leaders, to anticipate the vote, to be able to anticipate the time of the vote, it takes a determination: if this is the request, it must be organised accordingly; the issue is quite clear. There are two separate issues: the early closure of the debate does not result in a vote before it is decided, that is, tomorrow morning; I do not know if it is clear. BELLANOVA (PD). We continue with the waste: the debate is over, we move to the vote!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u109	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, you will of course make the assessments that your role entrusts to you. The request that our Group made earlier, through Vice-President Malan, is that, in accordance with Rule 99, when the general discussion is over, we move to explanations of vote and vote now, with early closure. Do you think we need a Conference of Leaders to decide this? Call her immediately, if you think so. On the other hand, we believe that this can also be done immediately, without going through the Conference of Leaders, because Rule 99 does not provide for such a filter, which is necessary if the agenda is changed; instead, we are on the agenda, namely the proposal to reduce the number of Members. The general discussion ended and there is an anxiety to decide, as Senator Malan said before; so let's decide right away. We must make explanations of vote and vote, so we do not understand the obstruction of the vote. The Conference of Leaders, under the Rules of Procedure, does not seem necessary. You want to call her? The House is presiding at this time, so decide what you think, but you cannot evade the issue, because you would take a pretext. Our request to proceed immediately is very clear. Would you like to speak to the Conference of Leaders? You decide: for us it is not necessary, but you can not pretend nothing and now go to the bar; this absolutely cannot be done. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u112	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I have full respect for your role at this time, which I understand to be delicate, in the face of a constitutional bill of not slight impact on the reality of our country. I think he is right about the need to convene the Conference of Leaders, because, beyond the regulatory interpretation, the precedents go in this direction, but it would also be wrong to pretend that nothing has happened. In order to confirm the positions that everyone has already expressed at the Conference of the Leaders, I would therefore ask you to convene it immediately, also because an hour's speaking time must be there: in this way, depending on what the Conference of the Leaders decides, you can also ask for a vote or not. As you said that no one has formally asked for it, we, who have clearly expressed our position on this bill, cannot pretend that everything that has happened in this last half hour is nothing. I believe that you are right and therefore, unless the leaders of the other political forces want to express a clear position on the question that has emerged, I would ask you to convene the Conference of the Leaders immediately.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u115	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, it seems to me that the whistles are confusing with the fiascos. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] One thing is the early closure of the debate, on which I think its interpretation is absolutely correct, because it can be done when there has not been an organization of the times. I say that because I read yesterday in the Chamber that speech, according to which the general debate would take place today, starting at 9.30 a.m., and would have ended on a day-to-day basis, which has taken place. There have also been the replies, or the non-answers, of the rapporteur and of the government and at this point, for me, the day is closed. What is different is the attempt to anticipate the vote. It is clear to everyone that the organisation given by the Conference of Group Leaders yesterday - and voted in this House because, by rejecting the proposed amendments, a timetable was adopted - that is, our proposal, which was then accepted by the Group Leader and the House, was, precisely because a particular quorum was required for the adoption of a constitutional bill (i.e. an absolute majority), to provide for a certain time for explanations of vote and for the final vote. So if anyone proposes that there is no such certainty, I am sorry, but it is only to see that they do not reach a majority which is required for tomorrow. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] It seems pretty obvious to me that someone is aiming for grapes. All right, everything's allowed. As far as I am concerned, it is not enough for someone to ask for the Conference of Leaders to be convened. In any case, it is the President who may have to decide that. Mr Laus (PD). We're paid today too! Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). I do not understand how we can decide, in the face of a constitutional change... Let's not throw those beautiful little books into the baskets: let's read them, so we learn some Constitution and Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] There are singing gifts in this House that I did not know I had. There's an echo. [[Comments of Senator Lucidi]] As far as my position is concerned, having read that agenda, if nothing has changed in relation to it, I do not think that there is a need for the majority to change a decision that was voted on yesterday. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u117	President Gasparri, your Group has already spoken on this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u118	Gasparri (FI-BP). I'm asking you for 30 seconds, ma'am. Thank you for your patience, which I will not abuse. President Calderoli said something right. The issue, Mr Calderoli and colleagues, is whether or not we are acting under the Rules of Procedure and we are acting under the Rules of Procedure. Floridia (M5S). No! Gasparri (FI-BP). Rule 99 - Mr Calderoli, you know - provides for a vote on our proposal. If the majority of the House yesterday arranged the work in a certain way, it will probably reject the request to anticipate the vote because our proposal would not be implemented. Therefore, it is not clear why the majority would like to arrange the order of business - as it is up to it - to postpone the vote until tomorrow and prevent a minority, opposition group from asking, after the closure of the general debate, to anticipate the vote by a vote of the House on our request. There's no automatism. We are even denying - and it is paradoxical that an expert in regulations is doing so, certainly more than many of us like President Calderoli - that we should vote on our request that, probably having spent some time, it will also be rejected, looking at the presences in this House. Therefore, it would be an unheard of prevarication to prevent us from putting to the vote a legitimate request made pursuant to Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure. You are the majority and prove it, but do not prevent the opposition from using the Rules of Procedure, otherwise those who put it elsewhere are right. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u119	Senator Gasparri, the question you have returned to is over because the general debate has been closed. After consultation with the President Casellati, the Conference of Leaders shall be convened at 3 p.m. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 2.10 p.m. and resumed at 3.45 p.m.) The session is resumed. The Conference of Leaders confirmed by a majority the calendar of the Assembly approved yesterday. Therefore, the agenda for tomorrow's sitting provides, starting at 9.30 a.m., explanations of vote and the final vote by an absolute majority of the members of the Senate of the draft Constitutional Act on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. The discussion of ratifications of international agreements will follow until 2 p.m. The question time will be held at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u122	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I clearly take note of the decisions of the Conference of Leaders and also note that the majority are so convinced of this measure that they are not willing to vote on it by appointment, i.e. tomorrow, while today they have left the whole afternoon that had been planned (and also the evening), because they have nothing to say about this bill. We take note of that. And if this is the model of Parliament that we want to propose, I think we are on the right track. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u125	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, I take note of the decision of the Conference of Leaders, but I would like this to not constitute a precedent. Today, it has occurred that the Conference of Leaders has exappropriated the powers of this House. I am not interested in the interpretation of that article; I am interested in the fact that only this House had the opportunity to decide. And the Conference of Leaders cannot replace the Assembly. Never. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u126	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u129	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I take advantage of these few moments at the end of today's work to ask the answer to question 3-00972, which we had submitted after the meeting between the Ministry, the Regions and Grancasa had ended negatively at the Ministry of Labour on 7 June, on the redundancies that this undertaking intended to carry out. We basically ask the Ministry of Labour to move quickly on this issue, also because - it is news of these hours - it would seem that the letters of dismissal to workers are beginning to arrive again. We are talking about more than 110 workers, who seem to have been reduced to a hundred. In the territory of Ceva alone, there are seven of 31 employees who could receive the letter of dismissal, plus four others between Cairo and Carmagnola. We ask the Ministry for a strong attention to this enterprise, because it is located in territorial areas in which too many companies have already been affected by redundancies and closures. We believe that more attention is needed, also because it would appear that, at the meeting at the Ministry in which the company has announced that it does not want to withdraw from the orientation to dismissal, only the responsible official was present for the Ministry, who - for goodness sake - will also have done everything possible; however, we believe that this procedure cannot be traced back to a bureaucratic observance of the commitments made on this occasion. Therefore, we ask the Minister to pay more attention to the problem, because for territories like our 100 layoffs there are so many; they concern people and families who are really at risk of being put on the road. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u132	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to draw attention to an issue raised by Mr Panorama on 15 May last, with an eloquent title: The golden men of Bankitalia, signed by Francesco Bonazzi, with a disturbing picture. We talk about the trustees of Bankitalia paid by banks in crisis and called to resolve the crisis of banks, which operate arbitrarily, questionable and harmful to users, such as in the cases of Igea Banca (formerly Banca Nuova), Banca Popolare di Spoleto, CariChieti, Cassa di risparimento di Ferrara, Banca Carige, Bene Banca, Banca Tercas, Banca Popolare di Vicenza, Gruppo Delta di San Marino. Extraordinary Commissioners are always the same trustees, acting in the shadows, ignoring the rights of savers and citizens to protect the exclusive interests of friends of the system. Their remuneration, fixed by the Bank of Italy, is always secret, even if the banks are supervised, so the poor currentists, often cheated and looted. I mention some names, such as Gianluca Brancadoro, former commissioner of the Popular Bank of Spoleto, former advisor of Isvap and promoter of the unfortunate Bank of the Mezzogiorno or Bruno Inzitari, former commissioner of CariFerrara, Banca Marche, etc. - I remember that in the study Inzitari works Anna Maria Paradiso, who led the commissioner of the Banco Emiliano Romagna and who now deals with the banks of San Marino - whose consort, Tiziana Togna, is head of the division Consob, who supervises the financial intermediaries: one vigilant, the other resolves. I then quote Giambattista Duso, former Monte dei paschi di Siena and Marzotto Sim, a subsidiary of the Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Nicola Stabile, a former inspector of supervision, who participated in one of the many unnecessary inspections at the Banca Popolare di Vicenza. In 2013, Stabile was sent to commission the Banca Popolare di Spoleto, together with Brancadoro and Giovanni Boccolini, to deliver the bank to Banco Desio, performing the desired of Bankitalia. I remember again Francesco Bochicchio and Salvatore Immordino, trustees of Bankitalia, sent to Carichieti and investigated for bankruptcy by the Public Prosecutor's Office of Chieti, for having devalued and sold credits at balance prices and Riccardo Sora, former commissioner of the Savings Bank of Rimini (Carim) and the Savings Bank of Teramo (Tercas), etc. Mr President, it is necessary for Bankitalia to clarify and clean up its internal affairs, since it is intolerable that it does not respond to any of its activities. We owe it to the thousands of savers cheated and expropriated with the competition of Consob and Bankitalia, that the Government of Movimento 5 Stars and League will compensate with 1.5 billion euros. In conclusion, Mr President, there cannot be a country without a transparent and virtuous central bank. Politics, which has delegated enormous powers to cleptocrats and oligarchs, must resume its sovereignty and give a strong signal, sending the leaders of the cracs and their collusive accomplices to jail. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u133	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-131.ana.u134	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 11 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.54 p.m.
