ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 214, 515 and 805.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u5	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, here we are again: the systematic work of demolition, scientifically designed by a few subjects, of the democratic system that we have lived up to this parliamentary term, which has been built hard and at the prices that we know well paid by our parents, with all the principles consecrated in our Constitution, by many considered the most beautiful in the world. Our Charter certainly had and needs to be developed, revised, but the fundamental cornerstones of our democracy, our democratic system, cannot be affected. The measure under discussion, on the other hand, is merely a confirmation of the intentions pursued by those who lead this devoutly silent majority. We had a clear signal at the time of the adoption of the budget law, which was laid down in the House after a period of exhausting delays and deepenings, approved by a majority which did not even have direct knowledge of the content. On the other hand, many other measures have been approved with the same system: packaged by the Government, delivered for the approval of the majority incapable of any comparison, with the only task of asserting the force of numbers, private as it is of the faculty to discuss the orders proposed from above; little professionalism, scarce skills, with the ill-concealed will to arid management of power, masked by the alleged need to comply with the popular will. This is yet another demagogic operation, with at least a questionable measure, which will bring disastrous effects to the detriment of the fundamental principles of our democracy. The people call for a reduction in the number of parliamentarians - this is true - who make up the caste they earn so much to produce nothing, who think only of themselves and never of the common good: this is the imagination that has been consciously fed. Here this majority responds once again to the belly of the people and puts on a measure that apodittically cuts the number of parliamentarians with a blow of machete, settling a very hard blow to our parliamentary system based essentially on the principle of representation, which ensures the democratic management of our country. The intention is now dramatically clear, although it had already been openly declined by the summits of that silent majority: the aim is to dismantle Parliament, the institution which represents the highest expression of the democratic principles on which our Republic is founded, since it is made up of representatives of the people who elected them to carry out that function. The anti-parliamentaryism which animates the measure under consideration is based precisely on the desire to achieve the objective of completely demolishing the parliamentary system, the democratic parliamentary system which - as I said - is the place of the greatest expression of democracy. This government therefore gives vent to populism and demagogy and proposes a measure to be used in the next election campaign for the European elections. He does so by appealing also to another laughable argument, that of the containment of the expenditures of politics. This is another demagogic issue because, beyond the figures that this majority is filling its mouth with, saying that it will save the considerable figure of about EUR 40 million, it fails to say that the costs of the institution of Parliament are many others. Parliament is a complex institution, as it is normal for it to be an institution which is the garrison of democracy, which - as is well known - has high costs. That of Members, however, is very little compared to the cost - indeed high - of Parliament's structures that will remain unchanged, will not be affected and are more than ten times higher than would be saved by the cut-off of Members proposed by the measure under consideration. The Democratic Party and I myself - as is well known - were not and are not opposed to the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, but only on condition that the fundamental values of the system and, in particular, the principle of representation are not affected. It is therefore clear that it is necessary to put hand to the fundamental anomaly of our parliamentary system, based on equal bicameralism, which is now anachronistic and an objective reason for slowing down parliamentary activity. In this respect, the amendments tabled by the Democratic Party, which, while providing for a reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, also include the revision of the bicameralism of equality, while at the same time allowing the principle of representation to be safeguarded. I am sure that the majority's attitude towards these amendments will be significant in revealing the true objectives of the reform. It is undeniable that the reduction in the number of Members raises a number of problems. Let us start by saying that the number of our Members tends to be in line with that of the parliaments of the rest of Europe and, indeed, in the United States, we are even trying to increase it. In Europe there are very few, mostly far-right tendencies, and the reduction is being made considering that the representatives of the people should not affect the democratic life of the country. I think it is pointless to recall that the prime idea of reducing parliamentarians was sadly known P2: the programme was to reduce the number of representatives, and this was done in such a way that it would be easier to control Parliament by political secretariats, leading, precisely, to the formation of a Parliament made up of sole directors, thus preventing any extra-party opportunities and experience. This is in clear antinomy with the fundamental principles of political formation which has gained greater consensus in the last parliamentary elections and which is now sitting in Parliament. Yet, they are approving this sad reform. On the other hand, the reduction proposed today would create serious problems of representation of the small Regions: Valle d'Aosta, Umbria, Molise, Basilicata and Sardinia, my Region. These regions, in fact, would run the serious risk of not seeing any candidate elected, especially to the Senate. On the contrary, let's say that from the facts, considering that the candidates are elected on a regional basis, Sardinia certainly would not have any representative in the Senate, taking into account the small number of parliamentarians: only the elected of the Regions with the highest number of inhabitants would be part of this Assembly. This would be the case with the situation that Sardinia already lives with the European elections: having a college combined with Sicily, you can never or almost never - unless you can find specific agreements - send a representative of our island to Europe. In this sense I appeal to my colleague, Mr Solinas, who is a candidate for the presidency of the Region - and I am sorry that he is not here today - to ensure, however, that it is also because of the fact that he is here representing the Sardinian people, that he protects the need to maintain the democratic system. I would like to address my Sardinian colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars sitting in this House, who remain silent and fail to make their voices heard, although they are aware that the effects of this reform will be those I have just described, and we will see that. Above all they are unable to oppose the destruction of the democratic system with which - thank God - we have managed to reach today. They remain silent because the orders, once again, come from above. In this way, all we do is confirm what the real objectives of the reform are. On the other hand, with regard to the destruction of the parliamentary system, some of the big ones - let me say this - have already pointed out that Parliament is absolutely useless. We are not talking about the conduct of parliamentary activities and, in particular, about the functioning of the Commissions. Have you raised the question of how the Commissions can work? Even today we have difficulties in making them work in a dignified way; imagine what will happen when there are 200 parliamentarians in this Senate, or those who will be. How will the work be carried out in the Commissions? Each Member of Parliament will have to be a member of at least five, six, seven Commissions. We are moving towards the paralysis of Parliament, which is the objective of the reform in fact. It is therefore clear that the reduction in the number of senators and Members, as designed by this measure, if not accompanied by a revision of the bicameral system, would only lead to obstacles to the smooth running of parliamentary activity. The king would be naked; one would understand the real intent pursued by this Government, that is, a progressive break-up of Parliament, of the democratic system, until it was eliminated to allow few to govern the country. The address is now clear, but the Democratic Party will strongly oppose this design: it will oppose the violation of the fundamental values of our democratic system. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Fantetti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u6	Senator Maiorino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me just read you the following words for a moment: It is necessary to start with the drastic reduction in the number of Members: 400 Members and 200 Senators. In this way it will be easier to organize the work of the Chambers and it will become more efficient the process of approval of the laws, without affecting in any way the supreme principle of representation........................................................................ These words come from the government contract, and we, today, are in the Assembly for the first vote on the bill which translates those words into deeds, confirming that we, if we say so, do so. It took the Movimento 5 Stars and it required this Government, supported by this majority - the first in the history of the Republic to be born on the basis of a real government contract, written black on white and in full transparency - to bring to the Chamber and Senate Assemblies an overall plan of punctual proposals for revision of the Constitution. Take good care, though: these are not the usual plans to dismantle the fundamental Charter - as the old left and right parties have done - but slender and targeted measures. The measure under consideration only provides for a cut in the number of Members, so that it will be easy for people to decide whether to vote yes or no. It took the 5 Star Movimento to the Government to realize not only the points of the contract, but our dreams, the dreams of so many people who have been waiting for years answers from politics. This, today, is certainly the realization of a dream: to cut the number of parliamentarians. How many years have we been talking about this at banquets, meetings and squares? From 1985 to the present day, seven attempts have been repeated, all stranded in nothingness. Why is it necessary to cut the number of Members? For a mere question of savings? The savings are certainly not small, as we are talking about about about EUR 500 million per legislature and EUR 300,000 per day. But is it really just for accounting that we want it? I'd say no, there's a lot more. The reduction in the number of Members will contribute to greater efficiency in the functioning of the Chambers and, contrary to what the opponents continue to support, the measure under consideration will make the proportion between the number of elected and the number of voters more balanced. In fact, I would like to remind you that almost everywhere the numbers are quite different from ours: for example, there are 650 MPs elected in the United Kingdom, in Spain there are 558, in France 577, in Germany about 700. Therefore, this argument is absolutely unfounded. There is, however, a third reason behind the genesis of this draft constitutional revision, which in my opinion is the most important one. In this House we are legislators, but we in the Movimento 5 Stars are also spokesmen, which means that we directly collect citizens' demands. This measure responds to a deep need expressed by civil society, aimed at seizing the gap between politics and citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The measure under consideration is in fact only a part of a broader and more ambitious framework of political and regulatory actions aimed at restoring a relationship of trust between Italians and institutions; a relationship that has worn out over the decades. The deepest rift between the political palaces and Italy, which toil every day with dignity, took place with the scandal of Tangentopoli in 1992. Since then, however, he has not sewn up. He certainly did not sew himself up with that operetta policy that we saw during the Second Republic. In fact, mistrust and disaffection towards republican institutions have become chronic, leading many citizens to disamoration and separation from political commitment. One of our highest ambitions is to give citizens a new interest in politics and the desire to participate; this can only be achieved by showing that we are not selfish, that we do not hide behind fictitious objections of diminished representativeness, to conceal the fact that politicians are not willing to make sacrifices and also to put their position at risk, if this is in the interests of the community. We are not here to do our own interests or those of the privileged few. We're here to do the real interests of the country. Rethinking the number of Members therefore represents a step in this direction and is part of a broader action, which includes the reduction of the vitality of former Members, already carried out [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; the reduction of the salaries of the MPs in office, on which we will work very soon; the introduction of the proposed referendum and many other actions which aim - on the one hand - to restore confidence in politics with capital P and, on the other hand, to encourage the active participation of citizens in the decision-making and legislative process; sober and efficient representative democracy, which one step at a time prepares the ground for direct democracy, where all citizens can participate without delegate others. This is how we want to reconstruct the sense of belonging to the Constitution and the institutions. The tools are there and the times are ripe. Direct democracy is a necessary way forward; it is the necessary development to gather the message that comes loud and clear not only from Italy, but from the whole of Europe: the citizens ask us to participate and to be able to do so, to decide on their future. These are historical battles of the Movimento 5 Stars, but not by whim and not by populism, now abused expression with which you label anything different from the usual recipes of a faded and tired partyism. No, they are battles in which we believe, because only through the reconstruction of the lost trust can social cohesion, which is so necessary in a true democracy, be re-founded. What the citizens are asking of politics counts, is heard and understood: today we show, once again, and do so precisely in the supreme name of democracy; a word that for too long has sounded empty to the ears of the citizens and to which we, with pride, want to give back weight, meaning and value. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Pirovano]] A final appeal to colleagues in the opposition: all your parties have made proposals over time to reduce the number of MPs and all your parties have failed to complete them. [[Comments of Senator Malpezzi]] Today you have the opportunity to show that you are serious and to take a step forward towards the Italians who look at us with renewed hope. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Pirovano. Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u8	Senator D'Arienzo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u9	Mr President, listening to the previous speech, I can think of what I sometimes say to my children: it is as if the world was born the day before yesterday; they arrived and there was nothing else before. It's really sickening. [[Applause from the PD Group]] On the other hand, the draft law before us, my dear colleague, has an important limit, because it deals with reform not as a whole, but only a small piece of it, a part of it, that of the reduction of parliamentarians, as if the obstacle to our democracy and the efficiency of the institutions were the number of those who sit in the parliamentary classrooms. However, as is well known, although it is pompously presented as the panacea of all evils, the proposal does not really affect our electoral system of 2017, neither the proportions, nor the colleges, nor the allocation of parliamentarians. So - to put it briefly, ladies and gentlemen - it seems to me that the present majority, particularly those who have opposed that reform in the past, the much-vilified Rosatellum, is more than well. Not the protests of the past! With this proposal you change only the numbers that that system produces, but not the mechanism. I believe, therefore, that it is a legislative artifice in order not to pursue the true reforms necessary to change our country. Imagine or even claim - as you do with this proposal - that your criterion of determining the number of parliamentarians is perennially applicable, regardless of the number fixed by the Constitution and, above all, without the necessary changes to adapt this system to the electoral law, the country and the democratic moment in which you live, means living on the moon. No electoral system lives perennially, for obvious reasons; it proves that it is the last years of our political life. To further illuminate the limits of this proposal, there is also the fact that it does not modify the districts: this strengthens our conviction that the process you have begun is absolutely inadequate. And I am strengthened in this awareness - I listened to it just as I did in the past - for two reasons: first of all we talk only about money. The Italian democracy of decisions has become an economic ornament and someone does nothing but blabulate - as has been done even a while ago - on the savings that would result: this is the first conviction. The second conviction - I say this to my colleague who mentioned only absolute numbers - is that our number of parliamentarians, compared to those of other European countries, is rather low: we take over the twentieth place in the ranking. It is not the total number that makes the difference, but it is the relationship between that number and the voters. In Italy we have an average of 63,644 voters per Member of Parliament, while the European average is 46,515: 20,000 fewer voters. When reference is made to the absolute number, a mistake is made which is the result of that negative analysis which led to the proposal being examined. The debate is not new - you are right - because seven times in the past we have tried to change the number of Members, but never disconnected it from everything else, that is from all the other reforms that would be needed to adapt our democracy to the current needs. Now we try again, but there is no debate in the country, there is no bicameral Commission and not even a parliamentary debate or a full-bodied reform: there is only the accounting aspect. And the source of this change is not, precisely, the answer to a concrete requirement that exists in the country and in the institutions - we experienced a referendum a few months ago in this regard - but it is a principle established in what they call a government contract and which is repeatedly mentioned as the Bible. It will also be true that the current government is the first government that is born with a contract, but we hope it is also the last one, if these are the results! Therefore, on the basis of that very authoritative source of life and law, it is believed that the speed of Parliament's work is linked to the number of Members: a nonsense, a conceptual nonsense of departure that derails everything else, until the final choice you have reached. I can reasonally say, based on what you are doing in these months, that money does not set reforms; indeed, a man of common sense would never have approved slot measures like yours on citizenship income. You say that the number of Members causes costs, you raise the problem of reducing the costs of politics and then you spend billions of euros to finance nothing. That the proposal has the short breath of those who have decided with the calculator will be understood very well at the time when it will have to be implemented. The current number of parliamentarians guarantees a proportional balance between large and small regions: with this proposal you will break that balance; on the contrary, you will reduce the smaller regions to no representation, which is the height of the peaks. What about the fact that we will have gigantic electoral colleges, which will have distorting effects? The first is certainly the direct relationship between the candidate and the voters. Many times we have said that the voter must choose the candidate he recognizes and knows, rewarding precisely the best. In a boarding school like that, I want to see how they're gonna pick the best. The second aspect is equal opportunities: it is obvious that in a much larger college, such as the one you are producing with this reform, the one with more resources will be stronger than those who do not have it. You will, therefore, reward those who have the most and harm those who have the least; and this, all the more so, by virtue of the fact that - as is known - from 2000 to 2017 voters have grown by two million people. This aspect, as far as we are concerned, is very critical. In essence, this proposal is untied by a genuine institutional and constitutional reform, which depresses the representation of the smaller territories, benefits the rich, does not bring benefits in terms of efficiency in parliamentary work and does not improve the electoral-elected relationship which - in my view - is already good. What is your purpose and purpose in this reform? The first is the mass distraction: to bring back the reduction of parliamentarians in view, moreover, of the next electoral campaign for Europeans, to distract Italians from your poor economic results and the real scope of measures such as 100 quota or citizenship income, from your firm opposition to investments for the growth and development of the country and from the difficulties that you can no longer support. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is only the best opportunity to seek a cross-based appreciation among voters, a weapon of distraction, in fact. This is the usual argument you use, because it is good for all seasons: it was good yesterday, it is good today and it will be good tomorrow. But it is only the slice of ham that you put before the eyes of the Italians because you will not solve any problem with this proposal. Those who think that the problem is reforming our democracy of decisions through these reforms are wrong; that is not what is needed. The theme is, in fact, what democracy we want for the future of our country and how we want it to guarantee the basic principle of every democracy, the governance, efficiency and effectiveness of decision-making organisations. And this decision will always be faster and more efficient the more and sooner we will overcome - in my view - the perfect and equal bicameralism, but always keeping the pillars of representative democracy firm. That of direct democracy that goes through the reduction of Members is just a lie, because it will change absolutely nothing compared to that objective. I should like to conclude by saying that the proposal - as I have already pointed out - does not deal with the real problem, namely the overcoming of the perfect and equal bicameralism. Of course, there has been a referendum which obviously cannot be ignored. However, it is precisely because of that referendum that it would have been useful to start a debate in the country, everywhere, to reflect on what are however the opportunities for debate between us, to see what to improve and what to take from that referendum, which obviously cannot be overcome. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There is nothing to take away, however, that the fact that you only point to that aspect makes reform short-sighted and not adequate for what is needed. As a result, Mr President, any other road other than that main objective is a waste of time. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u10	Senator Berutti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the story that we are lucky enough to breathe every time we are going to perform an important part of the tasks entrusted to us in this House could lead us to the gross mistake of thinking that the Senate, Parliament and, more generally, the institutions are always equal to themselves. In truth, certainly and fortunately, the institutions stand out in order to be subject to a continuous evolution that is declined in the sign of continuity, and this happens in a system so to speak dual, in which the component of evolution involves continuous changes in the characteristics and structure embodied by the institutions themselves to be as functional as possible to their main objective: to be at the service of the citizens. The institutional changes that have characterized the history of our country are difficult to synthesize. They inevitably dealt with the many aspects on which the institutions are based, enabling them to function. If we look at this multiplicity of changes or possibilities for change, there are two characteristics that emerge clearly: complexity and, in it, the continuing propensity to adapt the institutions and among them, first and foremost, parliamentary ones, to the outside world, to the country and its demands. Management of complexity and willingness to adapt institutions to the characteristics and needs of the country are two issues that Forza Italia has no need to learn from anyone. History testifies to that. On the front of the desire to adapt the institutions to the country suffice to recall and reiterate that, as early as 2005, with the approval of the constitutional bill of amendments to Part II of the Constitution, Forza Italia had intervened, approving also a significant reduction in the number of parliamentarians. For complex reasons, which I will not retrace, the proposal was not confirmed in the referendary; however, it is undeniable that we were also at the forefront on that front. So, as I said, the proposal to reduce the number of parliamentarians contained in our 2005 draft Constitutional Law was one of the ambitious elements, and to a good extent still current, of a much broader intervention that had to do with the way in which the country and its institutions understood it. This brings us to the other element which I have mentioned as characteristic of the speech on the institutions: the management of complexity, a capacity which the contents of our 2005 text bear witness to, given that there were together interventions on the front of the actors called to compose the Chambers, on the environmental or structural one of Parliament, or on its mode of operation. I do not go further in this historical analysis, because it is evident that in perspective the contribution of Forza Italia on these matches has always been virtuous and consistent. I'm coming to the present. We have often heard in these days, and we will hear it again, that the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament is contained in the Government contract. All right, good. Before your contract, however, the reduction in the number of parliamentarians is contained in the programme backed tirelessly by Forza Italia for the elections that have given rise to this Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In our programme, however, that reference is accompanied by the reference to other important interventions on the institutional front: from the direct election of the President of the Republic to the strengthening of the autonomy of the intermediate and local authorities. We are once again faced with the issue of managing complexity. A complexity that Mr Quagliarello does not forget to reiterate in his draft law, reminding us that, however, it is increasingly urgent to avoid the need to resort to easy alibis, such as the one on the electoral law, on which to discharge all the responsibility of an unstable system. This premise, as I said, follows the observation of the need to keep together in the reasoning the awareness that a broader reform is necessary which respectfully invests Parliament and, above all, the form of government. At this point, however, the proposal from the Forza Italia files combines a broad assessment with a consideration of sound political realism, proposing to intervene with a reduction in the number of parliamentarians, but also considering the opportunity to rationalise the timing of the bicameral system and the functioning of the legislative procedure. The reduction in the number of parliamentarians is one of the elements of a broader and more comprehensive vision of the institutions and their way of serving the country. So let me say that the conscious view expressed by Mr Quagliarello in his proposal does not emerge from the texts put forward on this subject by the majority, and that is clearly a problem. It is clear to everyone that in some ways it is time for the policy to be reduced, and the intervention on Articles 56 and 57 of the Constitution is a possible step in this direction. The issue, however, is how that step is taken. As I have already said, the proposal born between the benches of Forza Italia includes the reduction of parliamentarians as one of the elements of a plan that is virtuously complex and that in its decline would protect and protect the functions and dignity of Parliament, representation, weights and counterweights indispensable in a democratic system. The majority's draft legislation and its proposals, on the other hand, appeared and appear to be reductionist; so much reductionist that even the rapporteur has decided to reduce, rather than cancel, his contribution to this House. I would like to say a few words on this point. We are, once again, faced with an intervention which, as presented, appears to be a permanent campaign commercial, which does not look at the complexity, which does not look at the inlay between the constitutional arrangement and the political system, the electoral system, the Regulations, the internal functioning of the Chambers and so on. But basically this is what you can do: good commercials for social networks, which can be summarized with a few words of impact without thinking about the consequences and complexity. The risk, removed the complexity, is that, instead of putting in place an intervention that helps to adapt, as right, the institutions to the country, is merely propaganda. The deepest fear, however, is that an intervention designed in the terms in which you have thought of it is included in a broader and more fraudulent project, which aims to attack the functions and dignity of Parliament. That Parliament that your mentor would like to turn into a Parliament of drawers. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] On this front, as in the case of the monstrous referendum without quorum that you insist on proposing, sooner or later - I hope more sooner than later - you will have to explain to us what your aversion to drivers and your natural propensity to take it out on those who should be responsible. But you don't know what the responsibility is, because you put everything back to the technicians, the cost-benefit analyses and the so-called hands. On the contrary, politics is the opposite of your continuing flight from reality and of your willingness to take it - as I said - with those who should have the responsibility to lead the country towards better growth. It is obvious - as the history of Forza Italia says - that for us the goal is to start a path that makes politics closer, agile, effective, efficient and useful to those who work and create work. Forza Italia will not back down. But know that our favor is not based on the same reasons that some algorithm has thought for you. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators, representatives of the government, the rank of constitutional law that concerns the bill under consideration today in the Senate calls us to be as free as possible from any faction and to place ourselves above any outrage (sine ira et studio, someone would say). At first glance, the measure would seem to facilitate our task, as it consists of a short articulation, so much - perhaps too much - dry and with few numerical modifications. This text seems to ratify the triumph of the deductive process, in spite of the plurality and the different arguments contained in the different texts related to the draft law under consideration. This numerical reduction hides - instead - a complex and articulated matter. I am thinking, for example, of the representation of our political system and of the representativeness of the elected, of the role and weight of the representative assemblies, and of the importance of our representative democracy. I have repeated the concepts of representation and representativeness several times, because the measure under consideration, which reduces the number of senators and deputies, cannot be associated - as it is formally - with the Act of the Senate 881, concerning the applicability of electoral laws regardless of the number of parliamentarians. I'll explain. You cannot liquidate the measure as a simple size-seater, as in the graphic postcard that some colleague of the Movimento 5 Stars, or rather, the city spokesperson has already shown on social media. The real arrangement that accompanies the bill under consideration is the vision of Davide Casaleggio, who bullies our representative democracy as a fetish that will soon be overcome. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Then there is the statement by Alessandro Di Battista, deputy shadow premier, who judges our democratic system obsolete as the monarchy. It is therefore with the law of the Associate House that you must read and understand the deep sense of your initiative and the hidden design that this arrangement traces. At the end of the day, Minister Fraccaro's words last June were sibile in announcing that the institutional updating measures would be adopted through separate and autonomous constitutional initiatives, thus giving up a comprehensive and comprehensive reform programme. It would therefore be appropriate for the Government to clarify more clearly your concept - as a majority - of institutional updates. We must remember that our Constitution is not a software produced in Cupertino, which is updated automatically from time to time. Our Constitution is much more than your Rousseau platform. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, today you are bringing the number of Members to 400 and the number of senators to 200 to the House. I wonder: can this - and this is right - be the point of fall in the path of innovation of the top institutions of our system? Are you sure that it is not yet necessary to intervene first on the characteristics of our undifferentiated bicameralism? Are you really convinced that you will still be able to bluff the citizens by saying that with this reduction you have reformed Parliament? I personally believe that the answer to all these questions is and will be: no. I say more: what I am criticizing today in this House is the approach to representative democracy as if it were a simple voice of current spending and the desire to feed the anti-politics, with which you have so far inflated your percentages with the instruments proper to democratic representation. Nor do I have any difficulty in declaring here in this House that at first I had general concerns about this draft law that, through a serene debate and a targeted amending activity, I thought could also find an easy solution. Today, however, listening to you these days and looking at the walls you have erected for discussion, perplexities have become concerns before your irreducible will to do everything by yourself. In the text you say that every 150,000 inhabitants will have one elected Member and every 300,000 a senator. In short, expand considerably the scissors between the elected and the inhabitants, but without wishing to consider that the number of the electoral corps is constantly growing. I ask you: how do you think it is possible to follow up the actual exercise of the representative function? How do you plan to help ensure the effective capacity for presence on the territory of an elected person, to reduce the distance between elected and elected? Do you really think that Facebook or Instagram stories will be enough? That's crazy. The short circuit, which more and more often occurs in the choices of the yellow-green government, is that you of the Movimento 5 Stars, elected in Parliament, call yourselves spokesperson of the citizens, while you others of the League - I say "Lega" because today, perhaps for reasons of proxy, you call yourself - that you have made so far of the territories of the North, of Padania and their representation a flag today in fact plot a fracture no longer recomposable with the logic that has accompanied you so far. [[Applause from the PD Group]] To be clear, I would not be against the reduction in the number of Members; I am against a simple cut in Members, and that is enough, without a reform plan that redistributes and re-assigns powers and prerogatives. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This bill reveals your underlying error, your fatal blunder in managing with the logic of the little accountants what has nothing to do with the accounting. Most of the academic auditors in the Commission have made this clear to you, the same academics that you used to take as a manifesto and that you do not even consider today. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The mere arithmetical choice of reducing parliamentarians without a more complex and choral intervention of the aspects that affect the representation system, in addition to not producing improvement, in fact triggers a number of further problems, which you blamefully continue to ignore. The decision to make our amendments inadmissible only exacerbates this responsibility. I would also ask the presidency of the Senate to consider this. You insist on believing that the effects of this law will be contained by the association with the electoral law, but I ask you: how do you intend to reduce the problem of the implicit barrier thresholds that are created by lowering the number of seats? In the Senate, in fact, access thresholds could exceed 10% and this percentage is the same maximum measure tolerated by the European Court of Human Rights in proportional systems. How are you going to make up for this vulnus? And on the issue of the active electorate for the Senate, does the 25-year threshold still make sense to elect the Upper House? Again, no answer from you. I would also have made it easy to remember how the relations between Chamber and Senate members were significantly altered with the representation of regional delegates during the election of the Head of State: have you considered this aspect? In short, I think it is in no way a good service for the country to adopt a constitutional bill quickly, with such a set of inescapable questions. It is not from the legislators, it will not be from the spokesmen of the citizens, as you still love to continue to define yourself. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is a particular moment that we are living in this House today because the constitutional reform measure that we have been waiting for very long has finally arrived and on some points we believe there may be a sharing. I will divide my speech in two moments, one "hot" and one "cold." The first part inevitably from the silence of the rapporteur: he came to the Chamber without explaining the reasons why this measure can be founded and I do not believe that this is due solely to the intention to save time, as I will say at the end of my speech. In fact, I believe that his elusive words, in fact, are very explanatory to the feelings and contrasts that this majority lives. The intention is probably to have the measure passed quickly, without a hit and without a big debate, and I must say that I absolutely do not agree with that. This morning I listened very carefully to the speeches made by the Senators of the majority and the Movimento 5 Stars: perhaps, colleagues, you talked about these constitutional issues in banquets, social media and other suitable environments. I remember, however, that in 1979, when, at the age of nineteen - for me it was the time of the university - the professors, held their concisions in class, let us discuss and the discussions continued even after, in all subjects. We were talking about presidential reform and all aspects of the Constitution, but I have to say frankly that Articles 56 and 57 did not attract so much attention from us students, because the Constitution, although it is a "living" matter, is also a "cold" matter and therefore hardly excites. At the beginning of the 1980s, however, there was a great attempt at constitutional reform: there was then an attempt to lead to a new Republic, particularly of a presidential nature, which we would still like to support in this House. Reforms cannot be done simply by the sound of a reduction in the number of Members of Parliament. We would have expected something different and we would have liked a reform of the entire state system: we tried in previous legislation, because for forty years there has been an attempt to change the institutional system to make the legislative system more fluid; there are many governments that have tried to do this reform, but not simply to reduce a number, but considering an overall system. I still remember Berlusconi in the 14th legislature, but I could go back: the number that is indicated today is essentially in line with that indicated by the Commission De Mita-Iotti, i.e. 200 senators and 400 Members, is not that it is a great novelty. I must also say that the failures that have occurred cannot be compensated simply by the presentation and the obtaining of a vote in favour that we may be able to register in this House. My impression is that with the European elections approaching, someone wants to go to the streets and flag a result. Actually, if we don't think about cum wheat salt, we risk throwing the baby away with dirty water. So let us be very careful: we can reduce the number of Members of Parliament, let alone agree, so much so that in the 14th legislature we ourselves were the advocates of a bill in this respect, but today we are simply inside this niche and it seems to me frankly a little bit less. So if anyone wants to flag this attempt to reform our Constitutional Charter in the next election, I have to say that the fascination process does not involve us completely: we would have wanted something different. We naturally accept the reduction because it is an important point of reference, as I said, but the new face of the State does not go through this simple measure. I've seen that someone has already used aural social themes, very strong ways of expressing themselves, but I think that in this case the mountain has given birth to the mouse. Well, we can stand on the side of the mouse, we can give legitimacy and recognize that there are good reasons to support the reduction in the number of Members, but this reform had to be accompanied by something more serious. Of course, the reduction of expenditure is a good thing, but that cannot be the only reason why we should vote in favour or perhaps abstain on this measure. Action must also be reduced and rationalised in order to facilitate the legislative process. I believe that this establishment of the Constitution is flawed in many other respects, in many other respects. We are not, in essence, able to legislate correctly for a very simple reason relating to the various passages that must pass through a measure, which enters the Commission written in a certain way, is modified, after which it faces the dual passage of Chamber and Senate and, finally, if it should ever be passed as a law, it could be disenforced in some cases by the judiciary and in some other cases challenged before the Constitutional Court. I therefore believe that we should look very carefully at these aspects as well. We recognize that this measure was in the Government contract - let alone - but it was even earlier, as we had indicated, in the ropes and in the heart of Forza Italia, it was in the ropes and in the heart of those who wanted and want an organic reform of the State. These are the reasons. This measure does not serve to poison someone's low instincts, it does not serve to go to the electoral campaign to do anything else, to pin down a badge that, in fact, belongs to others. The most true testimony we can see is that when a political movement enters into crisis it immediately throws itself headlong in an attempt to reduce expenditure and to lower the number of parliamentarians. What has Macron done in France these days in the face of the crisis that has struck him? The first answer he gave was to reduce the number of Members. Well, that's the hot thing about this. I would not like the measure before our examination, in fact, to be the fig leaf on the entrepreneurial nudity represented by this Government, on its contradictions on the TAV, on the TAP, on the foreign policy positions on Venezuela. There are obvious contradictions and something had to mask this situation. These are the reasons why I believe that the measure we are considering has arrived in this House at the moment. In conclusion, I would like to point out that maintaining this system will hardly succeed, even with the reduction of Members, in achieving a complete reform. In fact, we should rather think about the differentiation of competences. I wonder if 200 senators will be enough to cover all the work of the Commissions. I still wonder whether it is not appropriate to envisage a differentiation in the powers of the Chambers. These are the aspects, which are also critical, which we allow ourselves to point out to this House, although of course we are in favour of rationalizing expenditure and reducing the number of Members. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about a crucial issue for Parliament. This issue has been dealt with many times in these classrooms over the past thirty years and is therefore not frightening, but fascinating and at the heart of our political reflection. In our view, however, the majority's bill stems from excessive simplification of the political framework and political-institutional reasoning. This is not surprising, because if we go to see some statements last summer, especially those of the leader of the 5 Star Cricket and the reference figure of the Movement, that is Casalegio, we notice your point of view, your idea about representative democracy. In July last year Casaleggio said that overcoming representative democracy is inevitable: today thanks to the Network and technology there are instruments of participation decidedly more democratic and effective in terms of popular representativeness of any model of twentieth century government. Beppe Grillo, with regard to the draw of parliamentarians, said that the greatest deception of politics is to make us believe that politicians are needed; it seems absurd, but think about it for a moment: the selection (that of the draw) should be fair and representative of the country, it would be a microcosm of society. 10:34 a.m. (Follows GRIMANI). In view of these assumptions, it is no surprise for us to have such a narrow bill, which deals with the institutional issue only from the point of view of reducing the number of Members. As I said before, this theme does not frighten us. In the past years we have been interpreters of attempts at reform. Over the last thirty years, Parliament has been the protagonist of several attempts: there have been about seven, all of which have been empty. We therefore have no difficulty in talking about these issues; moreover, the history of the Italian left has been characterized by very strong currents of thought regarding the issue of institutional reform. I watched a book, which has been reprinted in recent years, written in 1985 by the President of the Ingrao Chamber (President in the years 1976 to 1979) with Norberto Bobbio precisely on the crisis of Parliament. In that text (we are already talking about 1985) there was the theme of institutional reform, of a Parliament which was losing its capacity to be the centre of representative democracy, which was in a phase of decay of public ethics; yet already in those years there was the issue of institutional reform, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the strengthening of Parliament's powers on the control side, the greater link between Parliament's institutions and European and regional institutions. So the issue of reform is central to us, but it is not only about reducing the running costs of the institutions. Using terms of comparison of this nature is too small and we who are the ruling class (and even more so you who are in the government today) have to ask ourselves the question of how institutions must function better and how they respond to the needs and questions of citizens. I believe that representative democracy is not out of date, and I consider it a mistake to think of it as a blur or a worn-out instrument. Representation is the backbone of modern democracies, where the need to compose spaces of social freedom prevails. This is the task of the political parties: the Constitution provides for this in Article 49, which must not be cleared. I address above all to the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars: instead of bringing out your contradictions with regard to being a party or not, you prefer to dump this doubt on the institutions and not face it for what it really is. And then you think that the structure of democracy must be directed, without mediation, without synthesis or cohesion. If, on the other hand, you really want to interpret the mission of change - which is so much praised - you have to set a higher objective, that is to think of a more complete institutional reform, and then treat issues such as the balance between the legislative and the executive power; equal bicameralism; the excessive use of the decree of urgency, and the need to perhaps rethink this branch of Parliament as a Chamber of autonomy and guarantees. In this sense we had started a reform process, rejected by the voters - we would miss it, the real country decides - and you at that stage, where these issues were put to the attention of Parliament and the citizens, preferred to conduct a political battle against those who proposed that reform rather than looking at the general interest contemplated in the contents of the reform. That is why, in my opinion, Parliament is now facing this transition with maturity. The continuous denigration of the institutions leads nowhere, but only to the death of democracy. Today you who are in the government can no longer play the battle against the establishment: it is you establishment. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This battle no longer holds up; you must have the responsibility to deal with the issues because you are a force of government, and this task is yours because the voters have attributed it to you. We do not shy away from confrontation; you will have our contribution, as you did in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but we ask that the reform of the institutions be addressed in a thorough way. The reduction of Members of Parliament can only go hand in hand with other issues if the amendments we have proposed are seen as central to a reform process. I am thinking of the issue of the passive electorate of the Senate, allowing those who have turned twenty-five years to run, the possibility of the Senate as Chamber of Autonomies, of the Chamber of Regions, perhaps by ensuring that the Presidents of the Region can participate in the discussion of the topics falling within the regional competences according to Articles 116 et seq.; and I could continue with other aspects that we have put to the attention of Parliament with our amendments. What I ask of you is to interrupt - because we would do a service to democracy - the short circuit between the functioning of the institutions and financial savings. If you care about these issues, the problem of the costs of politics is not solved only by looking at the reduction of parliamentarians. You have made choices - I am referring to the Movimento 5 Stars - in which I do not think that that of saving was the polar star: you have brought to Palazzo Chigi a spokesman (Casalino) who earns more than the President of the Council [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Nugnes]] ; in these hours you have kicked out of the Ministry of Economic Development a leading professional (Castano) - who for eleven years has been following the crisis disputes of Italian companies - to put in his place the deputy head of cabinet Sorial, who is a trumpet in the elections of 4 March [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mallegni.]] These things the country needs to know and you can't keep hiding behind slogans and commercials. We are willing to take part in a reform process, but in a serious way. We will be on this path if Parliament tackles the issue of reform in a thorough and organic way, otherwise we will not be willing to participate in a little more than electoral commercial, which will add nothing to the strengthening of the central role of Parliament and representative democracy in our country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mallegni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u17	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that our country needs institutional and constitutional reforms is before everyone's eyes. To tell the truth, our constituent Fathers also had him present, so much so that some of them, in writing a wonderful and fundamental Constitution, which has governed our democracy for all these decades, from the moment of the exit from the darkness of the dictatorship of the twentieth century, have reiterated from the beginning that there would still be the need to put hand back to the Constitution itself. In particular, some of them already identified the route and themes in which to propose such changes, such as the issue of the two rooms with the same functions. In fact, a single - which is also the case today - institutional systems of Western countries had been created. There is therefore a need for constitutional, institutional, economic and social reforms in our country. There is a need for a real struggle against corporations, which are objectively part parasitic and aim at a self-protection, which conflicts with the general interest of the country and therefore citizens. There is a need for a reformist culture, conscious of the fact that in order to maintain the values and rights of people the State and all organizations must constantly reform themselves, because a state that remains identical to itself, paradoxically denies precisely the values that it wants to follow, protect and bring out. Therefore, the culture of reform and also of the amendment of the Constitution is in the DNA of the reformists and democrats of our country and it is also in the DNA of the democrats and reformists at European level. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party has not been firm, but it has also proposed in recent years a much debated constitutional reform, which has not had the vote of the majority of Italians, but which has had the courage to take the "toro per le anno". Certainly, even with all its defects (everything is perfectible in this world), it had the courage to propose to the country a change of system. The majority forces of the present Parliament have hurled against that reform and won that battle, but they risk losing the war against what I was talking about before, namely the need for structural reform of our country. They propose easier, more demagogic and more propagandist ways of escape, including that of cutting the number of Members of Parliament. We must be careful: the reduction in the number of Members was also in the reform proposed by the Democratic Party, which strongly believes that there should be a recalibrate between the number of Members and the tasks assigned to them. So the Democratic Party is not against it, but rather for a perspective that goes in this direction. The underlying theme, however, is what I said before, namely the ability to insert this operation within a general vision. The second issue that puts with great emphasis the majority, that is colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars and of the League, is that of the referendum. We must be careful, however, because the cost cut and therefore the efficiency, and therefore the effectiveness, of a system are important issues for every organization and also for parliamentary democracies. If, however, the question is only that of cutting costs, one risks taking a sound slap, precisely in the direction of denying the result that is expected to be achieved. If democracy has costs, and to control these costs we all have to be careful and fair, it is quite clear that the absence of democracy and therefore demagogy (to use classic categories) has far greater costs; that is exactly the risk that Parliament runs. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, it would be interesting to see what the cost of this government's discharge on citizens is, with the ballets on President Mattarella's impeachment request for betrayal of the Constitution a few months ago, and the budget law, which downloads on the taxes of Italians and on the public debt of future generations billions and billions of euros. These are real costs for democracy, to which the Italians will ask for answers. The question of the referendum is an important issue; we believe that it is an institution absolutely to be consolidated and we do not see it as opposed to the question of parliamentary democracy. On the contrary, it is an institution that enriches, strengthens, accompanies, involves significantly, when it is properly exercised. It is clear, however, that if the referendum becomes the way out of Parliament's inability to decide and assume its responsibilities, it is a problem. When the referendum becomes a way out because Members do not have the competence and the ability to deepen the issues and the political capacity to assume the responsibilities and get to the synthesis, this becomes a problem. Maybe the referendum will lead to an online platform (why not?) and maybe it will be a private platform, where it is said that one is worth one and instead the one controls the many, because this is what happens in the logic of things, this is the destiny already written in this demagogy. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, because every veiled authoritarian system always begins with Parliament's delegitimacy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This tells the story of the twentieth century and this tells the contemporary story, just see Maduro; but obviously to someone in this Chamber Maduro is nice, as can be seen from the public statements also by Vice Prime Minister Di Maio. Attention once again, colleagues, because the so-called general feeling, as history teaches, always finds a general who interprets it; democracy, on the other hand, is the ability to escape simplifications and to give real and effective answers. Now, of course, we are aware that there is a problem linked to the times, to the slowness of Parliament, there is a problem, as I said earlier, linked to the need for a 360 degree constitutional reform, to the speed of the world of economy, society and culture, which requires speed of response. Therefore, in this perspective, there is a need for a rethinking of the relationship of power, even within the institutional and political world, between the executive power and the legislative power; on this track you will always find us at your side, when there is to reason for the good of the country beyond the easy slogans and simplifications. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party has not been with its hands in hand. We, Mr President, were a little disappointed yesterday when the rapporteur for this important measure did not even want to present it to the House. You see, it is not only a matter of disrespect, it is a matter of substance, because a majority proposing such a measure presents it to the House, presents it to the Commission and puts the House and the Commission in a position to discuss it and evaluate it. There have been events in the Commission which create a dangerous precedent; they have been called inadmissible by our amendments which, in our view, are not inadmissible at all. We have tabled - and I conclude, Mr President - issues of extraordinary importance with our amendments: we have talked about passive and active electorate to be standardized between the two chambers, we have talked about a remodulation of the audience that elects the President of the Republic and, above all, we have talked about the need to overcome the perfect bicameralism, to differentiate it, as happens in all contemporary countries. Because every day we are witnessing the fact that two Chambers that do exactly the same thing do not make any sense and slow down every decision-making process, when instead the world wants speed in the sensible decision. Then, the theme of the different functions of the Chamber and Senate is very important and the Senate must play a role of safeguarding the guarantees and representing the autonomy. We cannot talk in vain of federalism and autonomy and then draw every measure on the concept of a centralist state that does not at all respond to the real needs of our population. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u20	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, constitutional reforms are an important moment in the life of Parliament and in political life in general. The current Constitution has already imposed complex limits and procedures, with weights and balances, and it has done so deliberately, given the object and influence that constitutional reforms can have on the functioning system of all politics and the state. There are balances that are - it is true - affected by the politics of the moment, but others that go even beyond the level of constitutional doctrine, which, by its nature, is slower and deepens the processes. The reduction in the number of parliamentarians, as has already been said, has been under discussion for years and corresponds to a common feeling of public opinion, urged by the press and the talk shows and perhaps it is also a fashion, so today those who oppose it would be condemned to ostracism. However, constitutionalists who have been audited by the 1st Commission and broadly agree on the reform raise a number of relevant objections. According to constitutionalists, the electoral process has a pre-election phase (the electoral system, the selection of nominations and the electoral campaign), a real electoral phase (the exercise of the vote and the election of representatives) and then a post-election phase (the report and the summary to voters by the elected). Depending on the prevalence at each stage of these meters of judgment and these methods can prevail systems more centered on the party or on the candidate from which it derives, once elected, the responsibility towards the voters: that of collecting the demands of the electorate and the party, exercising without mandate (I hope it is not one of the next reforms scheduled, because the absence of a bond of mandate guarantees the freedom of the elected) and then account for the activity carried out. In the system that is proposed and that will probably be approved there will be 200 senators, three octaves of which elected according to the single system: 60 million Italians about divided by 75 senators of the union correspond to about 800,000 inhabitants. With enormous proportional colleges, which correspond to whole regions or at least half of the region, it is a situation that is changing and that is difficult to sustain, because the further increase to 800,000 inhabitants also results in an increase in direct and indirect costs, beyond the budget, of the electoral campaign. It also changes the type of vote, because sometimes it affects more regions and certainly more provinces, so it changes the mindset and the type of vote of exchange, not in the criminalistic and forcaiola meaning that has been mentioned sometimes in this Assembly, but in the sense of a promise and a way of achieving something, as well as changing the vote of opinion or political belonging. In addition, the relationship between voters, elected and parties changes, because 800,000 inhabitants distort and can also make the elected one more independent. As far as the electoral system is concerned - but it is a provocation what I am saying - probably with the dry unitary the reference would be to 300,000 inhabitants (60,000 million divided by 200 senators), which is still a dimension to measure of the electoral man and woman, so the elected one can gradually know his college. However, constitutionalists wonder whether reducing the number of parliamentarians without changing the perfect bicameralism will give more efficiency and more political weight to the elected and taxpayers' voters. My speech will end with a voice of hope, despite everything. Although at this moment we cannot talk about changing the perfect bicameralism, because when we tried to do so we ended up badly, I believe that, while a smaller number of senators on the level of efficiency may perhaps lead to some difficulties in the management of the Commissions - but perhaps they will be grouped - will give the elected one greater political weight. Then there are some minor issues that are raised by the constitutionalists, including, first of all, that of the 58 regional delegates for the election of the President of the Republic who would have a different weight on the total number of those entitled to vote. Then there is the question of the active and passive electorate according to the constitutionalists: according to some schools, twenty-five years to vote in the Senate are too many, as well as forty to be elected. Personally, I think they are fine, because maturity is reached even further. The reform also provides for a maximum number of five senators for life, which I believe is the maximum that can be set, because otherwise the total of 200 could become a particular group, which can affect the results. In conclusion, moving from constitutional law, which is a bit difficult for me, to reality, what is the figure, what is the function and what are the powers of the Member of Parliament? Who's he answering? Does a Member of Parliament today answer the people of his constituency, the voters, the taxpayers, all or only those of his condominium and those who have expressed a certain type of vote? Does it respond to freely constituted associations and organized interests? I think it's legitimate. Or do you just answer, I repeat, to the voters of your party? Here is the difference: once elected - as well as the mayor, the President of the Province when elected by the people, or the President of the Region - you are representatives of everyone. Is it in the general interest? But how does the general interest of the chosen one form? Based on your personal life, your studies, your experiences? The Member of Parliament - and I repeat this in order to remain in the proceedings - must be without a mandate. How is the candidate and then elected Member chosen? From party secretariats? According to a political cursus honorum that the parties take into account? I want to think so. They tell me that in France this happens without any law, so we start as mayor, as president of a superior body, as president of a region, of a department and then we become deputies and senators. I believe that a little political cursus honorum is needed, also because, if the parties took these elements into account, they would choose from people who have accomplished something in life. Once elected, what can you do? Do you know the administrative, economic and social problems of your college and Italy, if you want, why should you mediate with what may be a contingent or particular situation? I also think that there is a difference between being elected in a large city and being elected actually smaller, up to the mountain realities, where there are vast colleges with many kilometers of roads and surface, but completely different problems and objective difficulties to be faced. I wonder: does the elected one have any experience of public administration? Do you know how this works? Do you also have a life experience? That's why I said that forty years to become a senator seem fair to me: because in life one learns perhaps at forty years of age. Even without a degree, are you at least a little self-taught in these subjects? Do you know what you're doing? Does he live political boarding school on Saturdays and Sundays, or does he go by boat? How can you hack it once you're here? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Perosino. PEROSIN (FI-BP). I'm finishing, Mr. President. There is a system for which the Government is necessarily in the hands of the majority and the decree-laws have preferential paths to be converted within sixty days. But the bill often remains in the drawers and when, after one, two or three years, they are lucky enough to be approved, they pass to the other House and while the legislature ends. Sometimes I feel a little swampy, but I believe, despite everything, that those who elected us have put more trust in us than in our parties. And constitutional reform, which is as dry as the one we are going to approve, should create a positive political tension to give us and our citizens some hope. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u21	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u22	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, if this debate took place in an aseptic context, the reduction of Members would be a very simple matter to address. Moreover, as many colleagues have pointed out before me, basically all the groups have raised this problem. However, I am struck by the fact that we are faced with a constitutional change and there is great lightness in this debate. Yes, there is the government contract, there is an election campaign to be carried out, and it will be said: we have reduced the parliamentarians. But, in truth, we are discussing and debating another point, and it is the crisis of representative democracy: a crisis that is finding answers not only in Italy, but also in many other countries of the West. Can we really have this discussion without thinking about these elements? The technological revolution, the dynamics of information, the platforms, the crisis of intermediate bodies, the speed of decisions basically push democracy, in fact, to become a burden. I would like to discuss this, not just the reduction of Members: it is too easy. On the contrary, I want to say this, Minister, since you are going to go hand in hand on this matter: I am going against the tide and I claim that democracy is not a cost. [[Applause from Senator Begin.]] Of course, we need rigour and sobriety, but democracy is not a cost. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] From this point of view, so many mistakes have been made in recent years, on which we should all have the courage to reflect. I try to move forward on this reflection with examples. I'd like some answers. Let us think about the part of the democratic and developed world (I do not think you are interested in Orbán, Erdoğan and the so-called democratizations, but we must be careful because this is coming forward seriously). What is the alternative to representative democracy? I took both Casaleggio's and Grillo's statements seriously because I understand that there is an attempt to give an answer - from my point of view, alas simplistic and not acceptable - to a problem that exists. I would like to understand what is this system of representative democracy that is being called into question and what is the direct democracy that you are thinking of. What is the idea of state and institutions? Let us take a few examples, which we are living in this House on our own. We voted on a budget law without even having time to read the maxi amendment. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]] D'ALFONSO (PD). Bravo! Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). It's a serious problem. Why is this happening? Because - and that is what I fear - you are building a new format of politics and - I would like to say to all the colleagues of the opposition - it is a problem that concerns us. There is a new format of politics. This government makes both majority and opposition, as it makes opposition to itself. The Commissions do not work, not because there is an opposition or there are too many senators, but because you do not make them work and reduce the democratic dialectic within you - it is a problem, Minister - in the name of the fact that you, however, represent the people. But we also represent the people, because we have been elected, like you, by the Italian people. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]] When the government expresses its orientations because it is the people, we have to look back, in history, because there is something that does not work. You are not the spokesmen of the people, but the representatives, just as we are. I am deeply concerned about this cultural, constitutional and democratic confusion. Do you want some more examples? But how, aren't you the ones who decided to make a centralized structure, centralizing the functions of the territory, local administrations and regions? Is it not Maio's vice-premier who talks about sabotage by the Regions because they have posed the problem on the application of citizenship income? And then, Minister, at the same time take away from the parliamentary debate the issue of the application of Article 116 of the Constitution, which you want to bring into a law and can only be said yes or no. All this should take place without the institutional framework and without any attention to the essential levels of performance referred to in point (m), paragraph 2, of Article 117 of the Constitution. But how, the reform of Title V of the Constitution was not enough? Did we not see that, without a reference framework, you do-it-yourself federalism is a serious problem that calls into question the unity of this country? Will you let us discuss this issue? Minister, can we discuss this before that law comes along that has those characteristics? Can we discuss how resources will be managed? Can we discuss what the picture is to prevent your own federalism from producing a given? Attention because it has already happened: there has been Parliament's expropriation that has not been able to legislate and the Constitutional Court has had to replace Parliament in order to define the content of federalism. These are the problems we need to discuss and reason for building. What's your idea of state? How do we want to organise the public service and the exercise of public administration? How do you plan to do that? That's not clear. You make commercials and propaganda, but it is a serious mistake to act in this way on constitutional choices and on the quality of democracy. That's what I'm worried about. In the other branch of Parliament you are discussing the proposal for a referendum, but the report - as the President of the Fico Chamber himself put it - of Parliament's legislation with the popular initiative is not yet resolved. It's not solved yet. It's a very delicate subject. You are rightly concerned about the crisis in the relationship between politics and citizens; I am also concerned, but you are rowing in the opposite direction. You are rowing in the direction in which there will be strong powers. The platforms and organisational forms of consensus will prevail over representation. At least let's talk about it. Let us discuss this; give value to this Parliament and to this House. I come to the last point. There is a problem of representation. You with this reform, in view of the current electoral law, radically change the relationship between voters and elected. Are you aware of this? Are we sure that at this critical stage in the relationship between institutions and citizens the problem of the relationship between elected and electorate can be resolved in these terms? I have doubts. National minorities such as Slovenia, linguistic minorities and, finally, the political minority are very sensitive issues. With this measure in its relationship with the electoral law you bring the real threshold to about 10%. Is it a problem for you or do you settle for your dialectic between majority and opposition among you? Do you recognize the opposition? You want the voice to be in this country? Minister, to date democracy is made up of weights and counterweights, balances, power and counterpower, of the Accounting Office which has legislative functions that must be protected. No one can say: you have not been elected General Accountant, so obey. No, that is not the quality of democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You must raise this problem for the future of this country and also for your future. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU and PD Groups and Senator Saccone. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u23	Senator Causin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, in addressing the issue of constitutional reforms, there is a question of whether we are doing the usual rite or whether we are trying to do something authentic this time: if that were the case, in the opinion of Forza Italia and myself, it would certainly be worthy of proper attention. We have a very beautiful Constitution and it could not be otherwise: its genesis and its protagonists have meant that, after the Second World War, Italy had a Constitutional Charter of the highest level and quality, certainly superior to those of many other countries. It is also true, however, that the Constitution is not a totem and Parliament has the right and duty to try to change, especially because times change. It is clear that the country is much worse than it was ten to fifteen years ago and that there is certainly a direct responsibility, in some cases linked to the ineffectiveness of our democracy. Subjective errors have been made and attributable to the political forces, but certainly also system errors, in the functioning of our democracy, which in recent years has proved too slow in reading problems and articulating answers, but also inconsistent in verifying whether the responses it had given to the new social issues were effective and capable of improving the lives of citizens or not. 40% of Italian citizens are not well: you know that, because you won the election for it; you have ridden this situation, stirring up their fears and difficulties. I am thinking of the issues of security, youth unemployment, individual income prospects or families, and the greater inefficiency and ineffectiveness of public services linked to municipalities or health services. In this respect, Parliament and the legislative function have a responsibility and, if you do not give the answers, it means that they did not work. When a constitutional reform is introduced, then, it is done with the aim of improving the situation. Salvador Giner, Brazilian politician, a few years ago, scandalizing the free West, wrote that democracy is not the best form of government ever, but it is certainly the one that guarantees the best compromise between individual freedoms and the security of the citizen. Democratic and liberal Europe is founded on this democratic model, so there is a duty to deepen the issue in Parliament. I ask you and I whether this is just an exercise or a real attempt this time, because the context, ladies and gentlemen, is absolutely different. It is clear that citizens today are at the limit: they have not forgiven and will not forgive a further failure in their ability to articulate answers on major emerging social issues. I am thinking of security, youth unemployment, the degradation of cities and the governance of migratory flows, on which all political forces - including us who have ruled over these twenty years - have a very serious responsibility. In 1992 in Italy there were 52,000 immigrants: today, in 2019, we have 6 million regulars and 700,000 of irregulars. This is an epochal phenomenon, which politics has not been able to govern and on which answers must certainly be given. We are also following the sound rejection of a constitutional referendum, which has shown that citizens do not have a ring in their noses. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] : We cannot wave the reduction of parliamentarians like a sausage in front of the cat; citizens want reforms to be functional and politics and democracy to respond to emerging social issues. The reduction of parliamentarians, therefore, is fine, but the problem that laws do not and do not work, colleagues, as we know, is due to archaic parliamentary regulations. When I go to school to explain to the fifth year high school kids how Parliament and the legislative process work, I am ashamed. Then I ask myself, and I ask you, whether the problem is the number of Members of Parliament or whether we are legalizing with a perfect, archaic bicameral system, whereby, for example, an amendment can be tabled to the House in the Commission which is rejected and then can be discussed; there is an agenda that is rejected and then can be discussed. There are 24 hours of trust. Basically, months go by to give people a response. Moreover, this attempt to reform falls in a season in which everyone has done everything to delegitimize the parliamentary body: I think of journalists, newspapers, great publishing groups, I think of the Movimento 5 Stars that entered denouncing the malfunctioning of politics, except then to approve itself to it and to make own all the worst practices typical of the malfunctioning of democracy. I am not talking about legal or illegal things. I am talking, for example, about the continued use of the question of trust or the fact that we are talking about international missions in the newspapers and we are not coming to the Commission to report. I am talking, for example, about the fact that the draft stability law is being presented - which is the most important law because it allocates the resources to finance the actions envisaged by Parliament - and no one has seen it, neither have you of the majority seen the rules you have adopted. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That's the point. This is the malfunction of democracy. Forza Italia is undoubtedly, without whether or not but, in favour of reforms. We are for reforms, we have always been for overcoming the perfect bicameralism - which is an archaic form of government - we are in favour of the possibility of democracy becoming faster and more effective because in an West hit by the economic crisis and the demographic crisis, time is no longer a gift that is granted to us, it is no longer an independent variable. Deciding on something today or deciding on it in six months is not the same thing, so democracy must become faster. We are also in favour of the centrality of Parliament, this archaic and old-fashioned thing called the centrality of Parliament, because I remind myself and you, ladies and gentlemen, that until proven otherwise, we are and remain a parliamentary democracy, until you change the rules. Therefore, foreign policy, economic policy and the most important decisions concerning the life of this country must pass through Parliament, even if I understand that you do not like this, dear colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars and the League. When it comes to constitutional reform and parliamentary institutions, I think - and I really hope that we all agree - that we have a moral obligation and a civil duty to do so in a shared way. We can't slap it, otherwise what happened to poor friend Renzi that tearing it apart, this reform, then the citizens... [[The microphone is switched off due to a malfunction]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u25	Your microphone doesn't work well, Senator Causin. You can finish your speech, because the time at your disposal is not over.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u26	CAUSIN (FI-BP). Thank you, President. I will conclude, however, so that we give some of this time to this House, which behind my back shows that it is a bit noisy and probably distracted on issues that will affect it in a few months' time or in a few years' time. As a colleague of the PD said, the risk is that this attempt to reform is really yet another instrument of mass distraction, while you have two issues that will be on your neck in a few months' time, two issues that you will not be able to subtract from: firstly, the gross domestic product of this country is negative. I am not saying that it is your fault, I do not want to speculate on this, but we must start from the principle of reality: our country is a country in decline demographic, with a negative gross domestic product, which retires one million active workers with a 100 quota and leaves another million at home with the income of citizenship. I'm not good at math, but you have to explain to me how you can deal with economic issues in the coming months. You must speak a word of truth about this. This doesn't add up. It does not return to remove active workers from the work cycle and to think that gross domestic product grows, perhaps blocking all public works because you have made commitments in the electoral campaign, so the yards are blocked and neither is it given the possibility to private companies to develop activities. Dear friends of the League, there is the show down on the issue of the decree-law security. Four months have passed, there are already implementing decrees, but nothing has changed. Take a tour of Rome tonight: there are thousands of toxic fires around Rome, the abusive occupations are still there, the illegal economy on the part of immigrants is still there; the dealers are still arrested with quantities under threshold that commit the forces of order and then are released free after twenty-four hours, maybe wasting time on the carabiniere who has to be a planter. Nothing has changed on security and in a few months people will notice and you will have to explain. If you want to make a serious attempt at reform Forza Italia there is. But, ladies and gentlemen, remember that we will not be complicit in yet another clown and we will call you back to your responsibilities. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u27	Senator Causin, however, I had her retrieved the lost minute for the disguido.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u28	Senator Pittella is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u29	Mr President, as many of my colleagues in the PD Group have said, starting with Vice-President Malpezzi, I too think it is right to reduce the number of Members, too large a number that does not favour the efficiency or representativeness of the institutions, but we are not hypocrites and you, Senator Calderoli, are certainly not. The problem of the state of health of our democracy is not simply solved by reducing the number of Members of Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Otherwise, we make fun of ourselves as well as fool citizens. The centrality of Parliament must be firmly re-launched, and I would like to make a few points here, hoping that this will be a joint reflection. First, as Senator Errani said before, we have all seen how in recent weeks the Senate has remained hostage to the Government both in the preparation of the budget law and on the decree-simplifications: 315 senators have spent weeks, before Christmas and in January, waiting to be able to vote and debate in the Chamber, with calls being moved from hour to hour. I say things that all of us have lived. I do not want to make the emphasis of the European Parliament, but there is one fact: in the European Parliament we know a year earlier when the sitting of the Commission will take place the following year, when the sitting of the European Parliament will take place, this film does not take place with always delayed times that are here in the Senate. Secondly, the recourse to trust (also a refrain that always repeats itself) is certainly not a responsibility only of this Government, but also of all the Executives of the Republic probably, but that does not mean that it should also be of this Government, which is supported by parliamentarians who have made a very strong campaign against the recurring vote of confidence. Thirdly, to give the institutions functionality, we need to overcome the perfect bicameralism. [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi.]] The world changes, colleagues and colleagues, and it does so quickly, it is not possible to do ping pong, the shuttle between the two institutions that do the exact same thing. Do we at least agree on that? If we are, let's do it together. This would be a great and real reform, long awaited by our citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Let's do it together with the reconstruction of a relationship with the Regions, based on the principle of solidarity: any federalism without the principle of solidarity does not make our country hold together. We know that before we take a dangerous road to an unsolicited federalism. And again, in order to raise the quality of our democracy, the resources that are spared by the reduction of parliamentarians are destined to employ more technical staff in the Senate. Each political group has only a handful of legal experts; ours are very good - and I want to thank them officially in this House - but they have to study everything: an incredible amount of legislative material and we senators too have a great difficulty hiring qualified staff. Why, then, not to provide our assistants with financial resources directly, not through the senators, but directly into their current account, as does the European Parliament, which makes available to each Member of Parliament two, three, four assistants, so that that Member can properly carry out the task to which he is called? [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] It is not a question of increasing the salary of the Member of Parliament - no euro must pass through the pocket of the Member of Parliament - but of money that must go directly to our assistants. If we want to do our job well, let us take the status of the European assistant: the European Parliament has given itself a statute for parliamentary assistants. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It would be right, then, to reduce the age of the right to vote actively and passively in the Senate: to limit the right to vote actively for the Senate to twenty-five years and the passive one to forty has the effect of limiting the democratic right of 4.5 million people: young members of an already numerically small generation, who would instead have the right to a greater voice, also because in here we should legislate for the present, but above all for the future of the new generations. Finally, I would like to make a final brief comment on the role of Members of Parliament, of ourselves. Who are we? Are we simply individuals without a free thought or a critical culture, regardless of the party we belong to, a number with a mandatory mandate? If that is the case, then those who say they are going to delete Parliament are right, because if Parliament is composed of numbers with mandatory mandates, it is better to abolish it and turn representative democracy into a plebiscite democracy. I am totally opposed to this hypothesis; I think that the role that the constituent Fathers have thought of Parliament is not this: the constituent Fathers have thought of an institution where there is a clear division of powers and the competences of the Government are distinct from those of Parliament and it is Parliament that controls the Government, not the other way around. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u30	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u31	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in particular to point out to the intelligence of the rapporteur and the proposers of this constitutional reform what I can only consider to be a material error in the drafting of the text. I am referring to including the foreign constituency in the proportional reduction in the number of Members. As many of you know, the foreign constituency is an institutional conquest of Italians abroad and Italians all, which brought six senators to this branch of Parliament and to the Lower House, in Montecitorio, 12 MPs: an extremely small number compared to the total number of Italians living abroad, therefore with a very discriminatory relationship with us. I have a few numbers: compared with 60 million Italians, we currently have 945 MEPs, of whom only 18 are from the foreign constituency. With the effect of this new reform, we would have 600 parliamentarians, but only 12 parliamentarians representing Italians abroad, including 8 in the Chamber of Deputies and 4 in the Senate. With a normal conversion report, these parliamentarians would instead be 52, including 35 in the Chamber of Deputies and 17 in the Senate. I would point out that four senators representing 5.5 million Italians enrolled in the Anagraphe of Italians living abroad (AIRE) represent an aberration, which is further exasperated by the fact that the foreign constituency is divided into 4 divisions. For the Europe distribution, in which 3.3 million Italians registered at AIRE are registered, there would be only one representative in the Senate. I would point out to you that, in international doctrine, there is no criterion, no formula worthy of this name that allows a relationship of this kind. Having only one parliamentary representative in the Senate of the Republic, in a bicameral system, representing 3.3 million Italians in Europe or one senator every 1.4 million citizens, considering the total of the four senators who would represent the 5.5 million Italians enrolled in AIRE, constitutes a democratic aberration. I believe that the Constitutional Court could in no way validate the democratic nature of such a measure. There is a substantial violation of the principle of equality set out in Article 3 of the Constitution, but I also point to a substantial violation of Article 1 of the Constitution, which states that Italy is a democratic Republic. How does a Republic define itself as democratic if it brings a representative of its citizens to Parliament for every 3.3 million people? I would point out that the Italian Constitution does not discriminate against citizens depending on where they are resident: Italian citizens abroad are 100% Italian citizens. I also appeal to the exasperated use of the term "citizens" which makes an important part of this majority: we are citizens and you, who have as your priority the defence of the constitutional, civil and political rights of citizens, are effectively abolishing those of citizens living abroad. [[Applause from Senator Alderisi]] Italy is not made up of 60 million people, it is made up of 60 million people living in Italy and 5.5 million people, officially registered, living abroad. They are also citizens. I would also point out that the figure of 5.5 million Italians residing abroad, recorded by AIRE, has exploded in recent years. In 2006 it was about 3 million and now we have reached 5.5 million. In 2017, according to the official data of AIRE, 250,000 Italian citizens emigrated. There is a lot of talk here about migration, but we always talk about those who come to Italy. Let me tell you that the Italian citizens who go outside Italy are many more, there have been many in history and there are so many in the present. The migratory phenomenon has exploded and is a problem of our days and our territories. There is no Italian territory in which this escape is not present: they emigrate from the North, the Centre and the South, they emigrate young people, men, women, elderly, fifty years old; in short, they all escape. This is not the time to analyze why they run away, since the motivations are many and serious, but it is the time to analyze the fact that, at the moment when this phenomenon has reexploded, this majority cuts the political rights and institutional representation of Italians abroad. It took decades of struggles, which culminated in the Italian Parliament with a victory, the establishment of the foreign constituency, which you are now putting at risk. You are also jeopardising it with a non-action in this area of Parliament, which we continue to denounce repeatedly, but which nothing seems to be able to happen: I am referring to the failure to re-establish the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad. [[Applause from Senator Alderisi]] A Committee which, from five successive legislatures, has the priority of studying, analysing and proposing the issues of Italians abroad and which this political majority, in this legislature, has the responsibility of not having reconstituted yet. Even so, we have reached the point where the Foreign Commission intends to manage the issue of Italians abroad, that is 10% of the Italian population, with an investigation, as are the investigations on the facts of Forteto (with all due respect) and as are other very specific investigations. We want to include 10% of the population in a survey by the Foreign Commission, not by re-establishing the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad. It is a scandal, it is a serious thing; and it is particularly serious that we do not make a different policy, even institutionally, than different things. I repeat that 3,300,000 Italians residing in Europe and 5,500,000 Italians residing abroad are an extremely underestimated figure. In London we are registered at the Consulate General in 380,000, but the English have told us that we are more than 600,000; the same thing happens in Germany, where there are about 850,000 Italians resident, but the Germans turn out to be one and a half million, on the basis of VAT and contracts, i.e. data impossible (here is the whole issue of why we do not subscribe to AIRE). The data are extremely underestimated, so we are definitely talking about more than 10% of the Italian population. These are Italian citizens who cannot be discriminated against further with this reform, compared to what is already in place. I repeat that the constitutionality of this draft reform is, in my opinion, absolutely doubtful, because, by reducing the representation of the foreign constituency, it violates the principle of equality and the principle of democratic intervention. I refer to the principle of proportionality, adequacy and appropriateness between means and ends: there can be no appropriateness between the political representation of the interests of a community of 3,800,000 people with only one representative in Parliament. It's not democratic. I appeal to the intelligence of the rapporteur and those who are pursuing this constitutional reform, which we share in the general principles and have also partly already voted, in the past (the reduction in the number of Members): the foreign constituency, which has exploded and needs urgent attention, cannot be affected in this way. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u32	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education in Acre, in the province of Cosenza, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law that we are called upon to debate comes in an area which only apparently concerns one aspect of detail of our constitutional system. The reduction in the number of Members and senators directly invests in the quality of our parliamentary democracy in terms of the representativeness of the Chambers and their full functionality. In the Constitution - Mortati recalled from the introductory report in the second Sub-Committee of the constituent assembly - everything is held: the form of State with the form of Government, the protection of rights with the guarantee of the fulfilment of duties, freedom with equality and justice. I want to repeat it to you: freedom with equality and justice. Every technical detail is part of a broader plan, which frames our coexistence and the organization of our democracy within very precise values and principles, which are equal social dignity, the protection of minorities, the guarantee in the face of the excesses of the majority. I want to repeat this: the guarantee in front of the majority's accesses. [[Applause from the PD Group]] All the values that you put at risk every day with statements and attitudes of your various ministers, attitudes of filth and ridicule, even with a leap that founded a party and suggests choosing Members by lot. [[Comments of Senator Pellegrini Marco]] You will be chosen by lot, certainly not us! [[Applause from the PD Group]] Therefore, even a seemingly marginal intervention, if not adequately included in a broader awareness of constitutional principles and values, risks having a major impact on the preservation of our fundamental Charter. I have already reminded you several times a song that I love very much and that says "the truth hurts me": the truth hurts you, it always hurts, and it is always up to me to remind you the truth. All of this has been mentioned several times in the past parliamentary term. I remember well, I have been in this House for five years, the cries of colleagues and colleagues who are sitting today in the benches of the government and the majority, ready to denounce the risks of democratic breakup, even of slipping towards dictatorship, in relation to our proposal for reform of Part II of the Constitution. An ambitious reform, of course, with its limits, of course, but undoubtedly technically valid and above all fully integrated into a broader plan, aimed at ensuring democracy, representativeness and efficiency of the constitutional system. If Parliament were efficient, no one, not even you who built our political fortune on it, could speak of caste; if Parliament were efficient and could work in the fullness of its mandate, no one could do so. Yet, then you were shouting at the democratic involution, describing us as the pickers of the Constitution and the guarantees: good times, I would say, if I think of how you betrayed that interest and that concern today. You show this every day, by putting under your shoes the protection of the fundamental rights of the weakest, the guarantee of minorities and the respect of the institutions. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You have humiliated them, even showing military uniforms inside the Chambers and there is a question to President Conte, who is still waiting for an answer. This, unfortunately, is no surprise to me. It was not the love of the Constitution that moved you, but only your miserable electoral gain, and that is why, in a hurry, you incardinate this terrible text. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You will recall, ladies and gentlemen, that nothing was written by chance in the Constitution, not even the numbers: the fixing of the number of deputies in 630 and of senators in 315 was the result of careful and meditated work in the Constitutional Assembly, which ended with the adoption of the constitutional law in 1963. The second sub-committee and the Assembly, then, long wondered about the most appropriate criteria for identifying the appropriate number of Members and senators, setting out a path that, even today, must inspire us. The mothers and the constituent fathers were not guided by financial concerns, nor by the need to pursue consent, although even at the time they did not lack in the country and in the current palaces of power strong anti-politics and anti-parliamentaryism. The only concern that guided our constituents was to provide the country with a Parliament that can function effectively, ensuring maximum representativeness and maximum efficiency. Those chosen were not random numbers, but based on the findings of the last census available at the time, that of 1936. They are not numbers thrown there at random, but structural elements of a democratic political culture, a sign of the deep care that those who preceded us wanted to put in the construction of the institutional architecture of the Republic. The search for adequate proportionality to the population is an instrument that ensures the representativeness of the Chambers, their effective responsibility - responsibility for all of us, elected and elected - and proximity to the electricians and voters: in times of crisis of legitimacy of politics and representative institutions, we should not forget these fundamental teachings. What happens, however, with the reform that the majority are proposing to us today? Members would be reduced to 400 and senators to 200: a far greater reduction than all those proposed by the various proposals for revision that have followed over the years and that stood at around 500 Members and 250 Senators. Our proposal for reform in the last parliamentary term also reduced the number of senators to 95, but it did so in the framework of a comprehensive reform of bicameralism and above all, precisely because of the reduction in the number of senators, it did not affect the number of Members, who remained fixed at 630. With the reduction to 400 Members and 200 Senators, the proportionality ratio is exaggerated: according to Eurostat data, we will end up with one Member per 151,000 inhabitants and one Senator per 302,000 inhabitants. I am ready to listen when you tell us that all this does not matter, in the time of the Network and, on the other hand, you are the same people who, not later than a few weeks ago, declared the objective of overcoming Parliament itself within a few years. That is why, and it is to this end, your concern must be read about the proposed referendum of popular initiative, the real way to break down representative democracy. Here, everything is held, as the Mothers and the constituent Fathers knew. Your plan to dismantle parliamentary democracy in this country is linked to your unconfessed desire to repeal the mandatory mandate ban, to your indecent parliamentary practice. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Just remember, as Mr Errani did earlier, what you have combined on the budget law and recently on the simplification decree. You want a parliament of puppets, remote-controlled puppets. We cannot ignore this when we reflect on a proposal for a constitutional revision which, on the surface, may seem reasonable, but it is not. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Pellegrini Marco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u34	Thank you, Senator Cirinna. Colleagues, it is not mandatory to stay in the Chamber, but it is very advisable, instead, to listen to the speeches of colleagues, because the buzz at some moments covers and disturbs very much those who speak and those who listen. BELLANOVA (PD). It's intolerance! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u35	Mr President, I have to tell you the truth: I have great difficulty in intervening this morning on the draft law under discussion. I would like to thank all my colleagues who took part in the debate, which was very interesting, but I have to tell you the truth: they don't give a damn about anyone, maybe not even ourselves. I thank the Undersecretary for the kindness and grace with which he listens, but frankly it is a completely out of place theme. It seems like centuries have passed since colleagues 5 Stars made direct Facebook here to denigrate and reproach this House: today, they don't give a damn about what we're talking about either. They are little present, many will be at the bar, at the buvette to have a coffee, because they know that this is an argument that has no institutional meaning. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u36	Colleagues! SACCONE (FI-BP). He who speaks shows that he is there, but the presence does not mean an interest in the debate. You yourself, Mr President, have just asked us to leave if you are not interested.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u37	[[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Nobody cares about the reduction in the number of Members here. He will forgive me those who listen to us, especially the students and the audience, but this is yet another... On the contrary, I do not say this at this point, turning my eyes to the public, of which I have even more respect: this is yet another electoral manoeuvre according to consensus. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I don't know how to call the gentleman who was here before: spokesperson, chief of voices, minister for relations? I don't know, because we are working to cancel Parliament, and then there is a minister who comes here every now and then and then and worthy of his presence: Minister Fraccaro. All the interviews related to this great measure of the reduction of parliamentarians, which the Italian people look forward to, begin with: "We will reduce by 80 million euros." First, when we were in opposition, it was EUR 300 million; then it became EUR 100 million during the election campaign; now we have discovered that the reduction of parliamentarians is reduced to a saving of EUR 60 million. When all the incipits of a Minister of the Republic's interviews begin with this stuff, it means that Parliament no longer makes sense. The constituent Fathers gave their lives for this Assembly. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] I repeat: they gave their lives, their hopes, their battles. Imagine if the first problem had arisen, not what Parliament should have done, not what it thought about democratic participation, but how much democracy cost. Imagine if those young people had this in mind. This is the political class we have, dear fellow citizens: the first problem is how to cut costs, because they don't give a damn what Parliament has to do. If they had a rag of idea of what a senator should do, how he should best represent his sovereign people, they would have to start from an organic project of what should be the development of democracy in this country. And instead they leave, as usual, from the shortcuts. Attention, you're in the government today. This stuff doesn't work anymore. On the speech of the trusts, I remember my colleague Taverna - who I don't know where she is - when she was doing the live show: "Confidence!" That stuff today, if she had to do it again - I don't know if she had the same dignity as when she was in the opposition - and if she had to repeat it, she and her mother would probably follow it. Because this stuff does not affect the Italian people anymore: Italian citizens would like concrete answers on their daily lives. We are discussing this issue today, this debate. There is a master, who is Vice President Calderoli, who I have known for many years for his political battles. He was Minister of simplification and I still remember when he set fire to hundreds and hundreds of laws, if I'm not mistaken, in the courtyard of Palazzo Chigi; maybe there was a sense there, there was an organic project: there was devolution, a federal state that had to manage relationships in a different way. There's nothing here, there's nothing. Let's go to the public, show them we're good, cut some costs. But look, we can also be reduced to ten MPs, five in the Senate and five in the House, and we're done. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The first party in Italy will no longer be such, this is a bet I make: in the next European elections, I am sure that that party will no longer be the first. But already Monday I think we'll have some twists, because this stuff doesn't affect. I say this quite frankly: let's move on, let's reduce ourselves, if the first party in Italy is run by a society. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Let's not fool ourselves: it's run by a company. They have no power of parliamentary initiative; there are four or five people who decide among themselves, then give the directive and pay the Associate House and every year the turnover of the Associate House grows. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Ten years ago the Associate House did not exist, like many, while today it is a great company that does lobbying and big conventions and how does it do this? On your merits or because you hold a parliamentary group representing 30% of Parliament? Obviously because it has a parliamentary group representing 30%. Dear friends of the public, I advise you to buy noble titles, because we are returning to Parliament voted for census. If you have the money, you get elected. If you have no money, there are those who command you, and you, sovereign people, think and deceive yourself to count more, while you count less and less. When democracy comes down to a debate related to what it costs or does not cost, it is over and it no longer makes sense that it exists. That's what my colleague Errani said before. If there is no draft vision and participation and an idea of the Democratic Republic, neither does Parliament make sense and that is missing. Mr President, I can tell you that they will be the first to realize this, because this Manichaean vision of democratic participation will eventually turn against them. They're gonna pick them up from the house, I promise. We are faced with craps, which may have the vestal of an aesthetic essence, but in the substance there is nothing. Let's reduce ourselves then, we do well to reduce ourselves, but - I repeat - I do not want to be governed and I prefer to return to work in the company, with my salary and my professionalism matured in many years in the field. But I am afraid for my children, because when you trigger a culture in which representativeness is mediated no longer by an intermediate body, which is politics, but by a company, my children will find themselves living worse than we are raising them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u38	(at 12.04 p.m.) Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u39	Mr President, I must confess a certain dismay in the face of this debate. I come from the last parliamentary term, during which we proposed a comprehensive and articulated reform of the Constitution, which was approved by Parliament and then rejected, in the referendum, by the people. We have experienced that reform as a serious attempt to modernise our democracy, but with the clear will to reverse the values contained in our Constitution, making them real and as current as possible and implemented in the concrete life of citizens. Coming from that experience and finding myself now in front of a completely different scenario - I must say upset - I try to understand, in this disarray, what are the elements and contributions that I can and can lead to this debate. You see, as we examine some of the changes that seem untidy - the House of Deputies is discussing the proposed referendum, while here we are considering the measure to reduce the number of parliamentarians - other things happen that are going to change the fundamental relations within our State. Only a few days ago, during the examination of the so-called simplification decree, we approved an amendment that, in the matter of energy, made the regions of the North exactly like the Regions with special statute. The management, in fact, of the hydroelectric power stations that until yesterday had only the Regions under special statute has been extended also to the other Regions. Have we changed the Constitution? Have we discussed differentiated regionalism? Did we go into the form of the state? Did we say any of this? No: we have made an amendment and the power stations in Veneto are now managed exactly like those in Bolzano. All this happens with good peace of the Southern Legists, who see in rage of people passing resources centrally managed directly to the North Regions. The League is making proselytes. I see a natural and, perhaps, just and justified push. Mr Calderoli was mentioned earlier, and I wanted to do so when he first approached. The drive to simplify and rebel against the complexity of today's world is natural. At the time there were no social media and, therefore, it was necessary to set fire to cubic meters of paper and to say that we removed tens of thousands of useless laws that made us and make life difficult. We, however, are going in a direction where the world becomes complex, increasingly complex and compared to this complexity we are not putting forward solutions that try to deal with it in the right way. We are trying to rebel against this complexity by putting in place simplifications that are not solutions. This is the subject we are dealing with today, in my opinion. It is true that there are problems that we have to face today. Last legislature, with our reforms, we were still in the wake of a reflection that has been made in our country for decades to try to modernise democracy. Today, after the elections, we are in another world where, compared to the evolution of our democracy on the basis of the content, concepts and values of our Constitution, we propose a path of simplification that cannot lead to solutions. This is the theme. Let us address these problems with a thorough reflection. The issue of the crisis of democracy has already been addressed in the debate. It is true and we want to face it. I think it's a good theme, and I agree with Senator Errani. We need to understand how to deal with this debate. I wonder where the constitutionalists are. Are you under the tables? [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Conzatti]] You put yourself under the tables because the procedure, when an earthquake comes, is hiding under the table right away? Is an earthquake coming into our democracy and hiding under the tables? No, I think we need to put some thinking into it because the answer to the simplification push is the de-responsibility of the political class. You don't want to take the responsibility to decide anymore. You say that you will do things, but then the people, whom you will ask and express themselves, will decide. In a complex world we are seeing in England the people who decide. And it wasn't even a complicated question: "inside or out." But behind it or beyond, there was the complexity of the world, of political and economic relations, of geopolitics and of decades of history made in Europe between states, cultures, religions and peoples. And the result is what we know and still doesn't find a solution. Let us then face the complexity that the world proposes to us, but let us make sure that the institutions are able to cope with it with new instruments, by inverting the concepts and values of our Constitution and giving our children the opportunity to have a better future. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Conzatti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u40	Senator Biasotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u41	Mr President, today we are talking about a subject that has already been discussed over the last 40 years: almost all the legislation has tried to change the constitutional system and, above all, to reduce the number of Members. All the unnecessary reforms that have been attempted over the years, however, had at the heart, above all, the democratic centrality of Parliament, which - as Mr Saccone said, of which I subscribe every word - is what we have waged wars and had blood and martyrs. Now, on the other hand, I have the strong personal conviction that this majority in fact does not want to cancel, but certainly to water down the centrality of Parliament very much. This is not my hypothesis, but it is concrete and in fact: I believe it will go to history that for the first time the budget law has not been discussed in this Parliament, and - in my opinion - this is a fact of a disconcerting gravity, passed in the silence of the majority. However, not only this has been mentioned, but also the infinite number of appeals to the question of trust. As some of my colleagues have already said, I too remember the verbal and substantive intemperances in the Chamber and the assaults on the government bench, especially by the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars, who shouted at the scandal in direct streaming with reference to the number of appeals to the question of trust by the Government. But I believe that in the first seven months we have witnessed a record in this respect. Let us come to the savings, on which I ask the government a question. Over the last three weeks, virtually all of us Members of Parliament have come to Parliament to vote on the timetable. Isn't that an abuse of savings? Over the past month, the only thing we have discussed has been the bill of conversion of the Decree-Law simplifications: why have we not discussed important matters, Mr President? We tried to discuss the political situation in Venezuela, the decree-law on security and the decree-law on citizenship income, and I repeat that we could not discuss the financial law. Today we are discussing the reduction in the number of Members, who are fake, because it is easy, demagogic and populist: who does not want to reduce the number of Members? To any question we ask any citizen about it, we would be answered 'of course'; but, if we did a real survey, to ask the Italians what their needs are, they would answer us: work, security, immigration, health, environment, public transport and so on; there would be no trace of the reduction in the number of parliamentarians. Then why are we talking about it? This is a commercial, because we are also well placed at European level: we are the 20th country with regard to the relationship between the population and the number of parliamentarians, also in relation to the number of regional councillors. Today we have 1 111 regional advisers, while France has 1,880, Germany 1,890 and Spain 1,218; all of them have more than we do. Then I wonder what is the logic for which - for example - Friuli-Venezia Giulia can have 70 or 80 regional councillors and the Senate should have 200. Where is democratic logic? And where is the democratic logic of a Senate with 200 members that would have entire territories without representation? Is there any logic other than that of the commercial? Is there any logic in the fact that we could elect the President of the Republic by a small majority of a party when, instead, he is also elected today by regional councillors and by two thirds of Parliament? But does this seem democratic to you? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Then why didn't you talk about a different electoral system? A colleague who preceded me was shocked because some of you, or Grillo himself, proposed drawing lots. On this point I would be right because I would prefer, perhaps, an extraction by lot to the platform Rousseau, of which I sincerely do not know the origins - let us forget the economic fortunes that have already been remembered - and I do not even know where democracy lies. When I spoke to Mr Toninelli, I asked him why he had been appointed Minister, because when he found himself counting the votes of the citizens, he was rejected. I remember that in his country he was nominated city councilman and took nine votes. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And with nine votes he became Minister of an area in which he had no competence, because in the last parliamentary term he dealt with constitutional reforms. So we chose any person. At this point I prefer to draw lots, at least the chance to find one that engages and studies we might have. Toninelli doesn't even study, but let's forget about Toninelli. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I repeat - I am not saying it, other colleagues have said it and a famous agency, AGI, has said it - that these are subjects of mass distraction. Do you think, in fact, that this reform to reduce the number of Members will never see the light, never! And, even if you see the light, I would remind you of some facts: it will have to be submitted to a referendum. The referendums led badly to Berlusconi, who had done a reform, yes, organic, and led badly especially to Renzi who had also made an organic reform. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The referendum then becomes yes or no Berlusconi, yes or no Renzi, yes or no Grillo, yes or no Casaleggio. So, look out! In fact, let's hope it happens so you can go home as soon as possible. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] So, he said who preceded me that the constitutionalists were all quiet. One has spoken and I share his words. His name is Marco Olivetti and, even if it is not my area, I believe he is one of the most established constitutionalists, since he is ordinary of constitutional law at the LUMSA in Rome. Marco Olivetti wrote: "Introduce the proposed referendum, abolish the quorum and exclude limits to subjects that can be submitted to referendum (...) betrays the idea of a reversal of the relationship between representative democracy and direct democracy. (...) The risk is that power is actually exercised by politically active minorities and this is very undemocratic. That is what I said before and which many colleagues support: we risk being ruled by a society, the Rousseau platform, which leaves me incredibly perplexed, but also by a party that is a minority, a close minority. So I wonder - and some of my colleagues have also been reminded - what you think of it, if it is democratic in your opinion the representation of Italian citizens living abroad. Mr Fantetti said well: they increase by 150,000 a year and we are going to reduce their representation, that is to say we want to weaken representative democracy. I was saying before that some regions will not have any kind of relationship. I conclude by saying that this Government would not call it either yellow - green, or government of change. I'd call it the Carousel Government, because he lives on commercials. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But while in the historical carousel, commercials were paid by businesses, these commercials are paid by citizens. People need work; they need concrete things; they need security; they need health; they do not need to reduce the number of Members of Parliament, which is something we share, but it is not an urgent matter. We are in a moment of frightening economic crisis and we are going to fight with all our neighbors. It is a demencial policy that you are pursuing: we have quarreled with Tunisia, Algeria, France, Germany and Austria. Then, however, when we have to go to Europe to ask, we go with the hat in our hands. So, what policy are we doing? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You've launched citizenship income, but have you seen the data? Fixed-term contracts have fallen by 12%, because they do not want to be transformed into permanent contracts, and they have only increased by 2%; we have lost 120,000 jobs. That's the data. The spread increases and the citizens pay for it. The income of citizenship, which we will talk about shortly, is another announced commercial maneuver, which will then create a huge disparity in our territory. Mr President, I shall end my speech by asking, if there is still a minimum of dignity, to reason on more concrete things. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u42	Senator Rojc is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very important that we give a thorough thought to the impact of the constitutional change that this House is debating. The one proposed by the majority is a merely seemingly limited intervention, presented as a simplification or a reduction in policy costs, but that is not the case. Your reform, colleagues in the majority, has nothing to do with the overcoming of the bicameral system; nothing to do with the constitutional reform of the centre-left - as has already been widely said yesterday and today - which was intended instead to overcome a mechanism that has become cumbersome, in order instead to introduce a more efficient system. The way in which it is proposed to follow the majority reform affects a number of important constitutional values and is such that the squeeze of parliamentary representation is excessive. Political pluralism is the essence of democracy, as it expresses the different orientations of the electoral body. The difficult balance between the different needs requires attention, not least because fragmentation, which reduces governance, certainly does not depend on the institutions, while the reduction of about one third of the members of Parliament - as proposed - has very strong repercussions. The current composition of Parliament does not hinder the possibility of developing the instruments of direct democracy already present in the constitutional order, while intervention of this magnitude risks impoverishing the democratic system and, in particular, making some voices such as those of indigenous national minorities recognized and protected by the Constitution and the Statutes of autonomy disappear. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I have to express my deep concern on the basis of something that deserves at least to be corrected. I would like to focus on the political representation of the indigenous Slovenian-speaking national minority which insists in the Region under the special statute of Friuli-Venezia Giulia. The constituent legislator wisely considered to protect this reality. You want to crush minorities: you started with the press and now you want to take away our right to stand. The recognition of special autonomy on the one hand and the inclusion of this principle among the fundamental principles of the Republic are expressed in Article 6, according to which the Republic protects linguistic minorities with appropriate rules. It is a programmatic commitment that has led to the adoption of positive protection measures in the special statutes and in the laws implementing the Constitution, such as Law No. 38 of 2001, on the norms to protect the Slovenian linguistic minority of the Region Friuli-Venezia Giulia which, in Article 26, expressly commits the legislator providing that: The electoral laws for the election of the Senate of the Republic and of the Chamber of Deputies lay down rules to facilitate access to the representation of candidates belonging to the Slovenian minority. The approval of the constitutional changes, with the reduction of one third of the number of parliamentarians, is such as to compress the forms of protection of linguistic minorities recognized in the Regions with special autonomy, according to Articles 2, 3 and 6 of the Constitution, and for the Slovenian minority by Article 3 of Constitutional Law No 1 of 31 January 1963 of adoption of the Special Statute of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. With the proposed modification - according to the projections reported by the Senate Studies Service in the dossier dedicated to the proposals in question - Friuli-Venezia Giulia would have, in proportion to the population resident in the Chamber of Deputies, a reduction of 38.5%, going from the 13 seats currently held to 8 seats. The Senate would be reduced by 28.6 percent, from the current 7 to 5 seats. In this way, taking into account the territorial context, the basic requirement would be to allow the Slovenian linguistic and national minority to participate freely and autonomously in electoral competitions and to contribute, in accordance with the constitutional principles - as translated in a positive form by the aforementioned Article 26 of Law 38 of 2001 - to elect a representative in Parliament that can bring into the democratic debate the need of the indigenous community to maintain and enhance social relations, life and minority culture, expression of cultural diversity, integral part of the nation, also the Italian one - of the country, therefore - and universal heritage to be preserved. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that, as it stands, the text risks creating an unbalanced situation with regard to the fundamental principles of the Republic contained in the first 12 articles of the Constitution, on which the other rules of law are based: the principle of equality, enshrined in Article 3, and the pluralist principle, enshrined in Article 2, combined with Article 6, which - as I have just mentioned - is committed in particular to protecting linguistic minorities. The opportunity to introduce corrective measures to ensure that there is a guarantee of a destination in the territories where the minority - in my Slovenian case - traditionally insists on an elected senator responds to a principle of substantial equality that does not affect the principle of equality of voting, but makes it effective, taking into account inter alia the internationalistic framework that concerned the territory in question, in particular the London Memorandum in 1954 between Italy, Great Britain and the United States, and the 1975 Osimo Treaty, whose ratification was authorised by Law No 73 of 1977; provisions that would also be consistent with the international instruments and principles of the Council of Europe on the right to vote of ethnic minorities. I therefore hope that the debate will offer scope for these aspects, allowing a serene evaluation of the proposals I have made, partly because the speed of the debate in the Commission has not allowed the necessary insights into these issues. I believe that this House has the opportunity to review the matter and to consider the impact of a much more incisive constitutional reform than it appears for the important repercussions on the constitutional order, also in the light of the international constraints that protect the indigenous minorities, allowing them to pay attention to the cultural value they express. Ladies and gentlemen, the conditions must be introduced to allow the Slovenian minority to participate freely and autonomously in electoral competitions and to contribute, in accordance with constitutional principles, as translated in a positive form by the aforementioned Article 26 of Law No 38 of 2001, and in coherence with the obligations assumed by our country at international level, to elect a representative by reviewing the text in question. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u44	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Statale delle Scienze umani ed economico sociale "Giuseppe Maria Galanti" in Campobasso, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u47	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, since the Conference of Group Leaders is under way, I expect, although I do not want to invade the area of the Presidency, which is sovereign, as is the practice of the sitting being suspended, since the President of our Group, like that of all the other Groups, is also meeting to determine the continuation of our work. I would also like to add another question to you, Mr President: since there are no time limits at this stage and the Group of the Party of European Socialists has made a request for a series of speeches, which I understand has raised a number of concerns about being accepted, I would like to reiterate the need for those who have asked to speak to be heard, because we are talking about an extremely important subject. I say this because yesterday Minister Fraccaro, without being here to listen to our requests, defined the amendments of the Democratic Party of diversions. Since we would like to explain to him that they are not diversionary - he is not present, but perhaps we are giving him time to reach us - we hope that, after the suspension of the work, the Minister will be in the Chamber and all the speeches, even the subsequent ones, will have space. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u48	Senator Malpezzi, since the Conference of Group Presidents is scheduled for 12.30 p.m. and I therefore assume that it has already begun or is about to begin, I believe that your correct question - or if it is possible to continue, for the reasons you have put forward - can be promptly examined at the opening of the Conference itself and, if necessary, we will suspend the outcome of the evaluation made. MALPEZZI (PD). No, ma'am! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malpezzi, you just finished talking. You yourself said that this is an assessment for the Presidency. FADELI (PD). There's a practice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Anyone who wants to speak can do so by intervening on the order of business. I have said that the question can be put at the opening of the meeting of the Conference of Leaders - it is already on time - and so I will stick to it carefully and, meanwhile, I will give the floor to the next member to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u51	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I am only speaking to inform you that I do not think that is exactly the case. I will not attend the meeting of the group leaders, because I am engaged in this Assembly. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I therefore expect you to suspend the sitting of this House, and then I will speak at the meeting of the group leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u52	Senator Marcucci, as you know, this is an assessment that, no matter how high my ego may be, is up to the President of the Senate. Therefore, I believe that my consideration, with good peace of mind, can be accepted as a sign of recognition of the possibility of the request being accepted and I invite you, if you can, to address the President directly at the opening of the meeting. If you cannot, I shall briefly suspend the sitting, in order to have time to consult with the President of the Senate. VALENT (PD). But you're the President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The sitting was suspended briefly. (The sitting was suspended at 12.36 p.m. and resumed at 12.39 p.m.) Colleagues, the session is resumed. We have listened together to the request of the Leader of the Democratic Party and also to Senator Malpezzi's proposal, which deserves consideration. I have consulted the President of the Senate and, having examined the precedents, it is quite clear that there are many people in which the sitting continued during the Conference of the Leaders, especially when it was a general debate or speeches which, as in this case, do not seem to me to have the comfort of a very careful and full Chamber. I must therefore continue with the work. VALENT (PD). What about the Commissions? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let me finish, partner. It does not seem to me to be such an important problem. I am not talking about intervening, but about getting upset about this issue. BELLANOVA (PD). It's not a matter of getting excited. You're the one who's upset. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I will continue according to the pre-arranged order. The President of the PD Group has kindly told me that if anyone is absent, I will see, as far as possible, that his speech is postponed; but, if this is systematic, I will have to understand that those speeches have fallen. This is the President's assessment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u55	FADELI (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask for clarification of what you have just said. Since the Commissions are convened at 1 p.m., I would just like to know what time we are holding in this House, since the sitting was still to be suspended at 1 p.m. I'm just gonna tell you, keeping one request and the other together.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u56	It is quite clear that, if the sitting continues, the Commissions are despondent. We cannot expect them to remain convened unless otherwise agreed between the groups of course.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u58	Senator, you have already spoken and I think I have answered your question. In any case, he has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u59	MALPEZZI (PD). You said that the Commissions will be offended, too. The problem is that on the agenda of many Commissions there are hearings and there are people waiting for us. Do you find it respectful for those who are coming to these Palaces to be auditioned for the session to be offended? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I understand and thank you. MALPEZZI (PD). What I'm saying is, there were some pre-arranged jobs. If the Commissions were summoned at 1:30 p.m...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u60	Senator Malpezzi, I have to ask you to stop your surgery. It is not respectful and the remedy is there: inside the Commissions you can ask for the derogation and move on with the works.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk. I've been raising my hand for an hour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u62	You know that raising your hand is dangerous in today's Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u63	CIRINNA' (PD). Depends on which hand and how you get it up, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's true. Please, Senator Cirinna. CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, with regard to what you have said about the Commissions - and I am pleased to take the floor at the time that Senator Pucciarelli has returned to the Chamber - it has been since 6 January that I have asked the Bureau of the Commission for Human Rights, which is finally convened, after a month of my request, today at 1 p.m. If you or President Alberti Casellati were to grant a derogation, I would ask that it be done for the Commission on human rights, because I have been calling the Bureau for a month.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u64	I have anticipated them, Senator Cirinna, without having to listen to President Alberti Casellati, because on this - I am sure - would agree with me that, where the members of the Commission decide, on the slope of the sitting of this House without interruption, to continue their work, there is no objection on my part. As long as they make it known and there are no objections.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u65	Senator De Poli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u66	I'm quitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u67	The Presidency takes note of this. Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u68	Mr President, I have to say that speaking to a semi-empty Chamber is never a good feeling, but we still try. Today we enter into the merit of a law - the classic flag law of a perennial electoral campaign that is continuing - and of a rule that has been flagrant for a long time, which can only be the linear cut of parliamentarians, senators and parliamentarians: a cut that does not come into the substance - we have heard so many speeches this morning and yesterday - of a vision and a reformer project of the whole constitutional system, but is limited, as proposed in the text that we have read, to a simple abolition of parliamentarians. A true reformism should enter into the merit of perfect bicameralism, just as we did with our reform of the center-left: a reformism that has been sought for many years, but unfortunately has never come to completion. Here there is no trace of a more complex and comprehensive reform; we are talking only of reaching 200 senators and 400 Members. Nor is there any trace of the diversification of the roles of the two chambers - as we had proposed - by providing for the House of Deputies to legislate and the House of Senators instead to listen to the territories, because they had to be heard differently. There's a mere cut here. There is no idea of speeding up, as another colleague has already said. Do you think speeding up means cutting off senators and MPs? This is not a system. You certainly need to review the system, but not just by cutting it. Do you want to signal populism? That's the most important thing you've ever done. It is an answer to the anger against the caste, as you have always said. Unfortunately around there is a very different design, a design that sees behind a progressive departure from politics. The progressive removal and dismantling of representative democracy is a plan that is now being pursued by this Government in particular, with the idea that parliamentarians have become a more, a harp for those who want to decide. We have seen it well with the budget law, when there was no opportunity to discuss it. A very large amendment has been tabled, on which we have not even been able to incorporate further amendments, because we have been prevented from doing so. The same possibility has also been denied to the majority Members who, although they have prerogatives, have given up on it, leaving the Commission to work undisturbedly. Thanks to the intervention we made as a Democratic Party there was an important reminder, followed by a very important intervention in the decree simplifications by the President of the Senate: if we had not had this initiative, no one could have said anything and would have gone on without any kind of intervention. The measure under consideration does not change the bicameral system or the perfect bicameralism - as we have said - by distinguishing it, to give life also to the voice of the territories. No, none of this, and even more of the self-governments - we heard the speaker earlier - who have a right of voice. Instead, the most important representations are cut, as are the high representations of our citizens abroad, with an important measure that sees them move away from their state, from their nation. A more organic form therefore there is no, it does not exist. Unfortunately - I must say - even from this point of view it is a drawing that comes from afar. I remember cuts to a participatory democracy that came even from 2010 (there was still the Government with the League): at that time - I remember it well, because at that time I was an administrator - they even cut the districts, with a participatory democracy and close to the citizens. You see, so, how long has this drawing been coming? I hope that the society outside will wake up, even if it is not interested at this time in the important speech we are making, because we are intervening on the Constitution. Unfortunately, what matters to people outside is just giving up against Members, giving up, because we are simply seen as a cost of politics. The society at this moment is silent, poisoned by the hatred perpetrated against everyone: we are at a time when everyone is against everyone and nobody cares about what we are doing, let alone the parliamentarians, who have always been considered a caste: moreover, those who are now part of the government have always considered the parliamentarians a caste, giving them up. Now you're in the government. Are you happy when you hear yourself calling yourself lame? I have never been happy to be called idle, not least because those who know well the work of the parliamentarians know that it is not a dull job at all: we start the morning with the Commissions, we arrive here in the Chamber, we try to be always present and to be on the territory. Those who do this work with satisfaction and a sense of service towards their citizens know it and do not believe it is a useless job, as you have always thought it was and how you are making people think about it outside of here: this is the big problem. There is no need, therefore, to call oneself or to speak out as a spokesperson for the citizens: we have always been. This is representative democracy. This means being elected and, as you have been elected by the people, we too have been elected. I have my own area of reference, my citizens waiting for me to ask a question and for that question to be answered, although unfortunately this is happening with ever longer times and enormous delays. Know that there was no need, because before you were there we had already done things too. Unfortunately, they have been rejected; the people have rightly decided. But know that we too have done a reform and we wanted to do it altogether, really putting the "i" on the mark. I am also referring to the fact that I have thought of a more national and less fragmented health care; a health care that could have been listening to the whole of the national territory, and not in a heterogeneous way as is now done in full autonomy by the Regions. So we are not seeing our Parliament being deported. And we are not seeing that, only by consensus, this Parliament is being emptied of what is, on the other hand, its most important prerogative, namely to bring the demands of our citizens to this House. Democracy has been paid dearly, and history teaches us that. The constituent Fathers had not by chance made such a complex plant, so that there would be a management of the State and the nation that could support and support itself. There is no taboo saying that we have to cut the parliamentarians. But cut like this, in a linear way, like when you cut expenses in a linear way without intervening, it doesn't make sense, it's sterile. It really is always a matter of electoral consensus. I hope that this time will end - it will have to end - because it is not possible to manage a state in this way, i.e. only with electoral ads like those we have seen these days, opening up as if there were a magical bulletin board, or pulling out a card. Know, among other things, that it had already been done by previous governments, and it was not done for the first time. I must say that at this point we are not simply reducing the number of Members. We have tabled amendments which intervene in a much more complex form, for a reform that really would create a faster plant. But on a precious asset, what democracy is, we are not with you on this path. We have too great a value, and the value of democracy is too precious and must be preserved for the future of our children as well. So, either you listen to us or we're not. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u69	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen - for those few who listen to me - the draft law before us allows us to have a very important debate and, for those who have attended this morning, it is certainly a confirmation; one of the many debates on a subject that has been distorted in the past from every point of view, but which does not lose its importance in the current situation. We feel it is our duty to make our contribution, certainly aware that first of all it is the policy that must represent the hope of democracy. I want to begin by highlighting this point, precisely because I believe that politics is the answer that we owe to all those who have to renew and renew themselves: politics as hope. Of course, in Italy this aspect is particularly important because, while elsewhere, in the other countries, in those which have already been involved - and for some time - in the democracy of alternation, politics is based on a development policy, but not on the need for a policy of reform of the system, unfortunately the renewal of the policy goes from the renewal of the system to the renewal of the system. And on the concept of the renewal of the system it seems important to me to say some things, even if politics is under fire today, precisely because the renewal of the Italian political system has failed. Of course, the reduction in the number of Members cannot but be discussed well, but within the framework of a system revolution. No political force has spoken of this in the last 40 years. On the other hand, we were the first to complete, thanks to the tenacity of our President Berlusconi, a true and serious reform that reviewed and unified our political-institutional system. Italy had and needs a reduction in the number of parliamentarians, bringing their numbers back to the level of other democracies. Above all, there was the need for a more sober policy, particularly in behaviour, which every day we see being exaggerated by Members of Parliament and the Government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Above all, the data tell us that it was necessary and necessary to avoid that the excessive number of Members of Parliament, together with the age-old question of bicameralism, continues to make the process of approving the draft laws cumbersome, complex and extremely fragmented. We, as parliamentarians, every day living in parliamentary activity, however, know perfectly well that, when a law has a rapid process, it is because the Government proposes it is in agreement with all the passages. Therefore, despite the debate in the Commission, the tabling of amendments and other passages, it is well known that, despite bicameralism, a measure can be adopted within 30 or 60 days at most. It is when things have happened in this legislature too, and before that, that the process of examining the measures goes on two or two and a half years, because of a constant rebound, because there is no single voice in the Government. With regard to the reduction of the fantastic costs of politics, I hope that not only the lowest cost of reducing the number of Members of Parliament has been assessed, but also the possible higher burdens that could be incurred as a result of the changes that the legislative machinery will have to face. On the other hand, it is easy to believe that the savings resulting from the reduction of the so-called political class (the caste) are automatic. Has anyone, however, verified what has been spared in the past as a result of the reforms that have led to the reduction of the members of the various representative collegial bodies, both regional and local? Maybe not. Furthermore, was it not necessary to imagine that, if a reduced legislative body could acquire greater authority, the choice of citizens' representatives should be made with greater selection capacity? However, we know that this is certainly not the intention of the Rousseau platform. I imagine that we all want a more authoritative Parliament and a better-chosen political class, especially in these times of rampant ignorance. But, beyond the doubts raised in the Commission during the hearings, I would like to say with the same sincerity to those who think, here and outside, that just a tweet - practically this is being talked about and not a reform - is enough to strengthen the political institutions and the feeling of our people and the people, who are out of reality. It is also out of reality in demonstrating that it cannot speak and listen to the thousands of people we have the honor, the venture, the pleasure and the duty to meet every day. We need more, ladies and gentlemen. We need more politicians - and fewer showmen and millantators - than we know how to motivate a people that is largely distrusted, disoriented and indefatigable. We need new, courageous and revolutionary criteria, channels and methods of democratic representation and pluralism in a complex nature and in an evolved nation like ours. And when I talk about new criteria for democratic representation, I am certainly not talking about online voting. In this respect, I believe that, rather than talking about referendums, it would have been better to discuss the direct election of the heads of state - I am referring to the Head of State or the Head of Government - which are courageous and not propaganda choices. This is what would be useful and what the whole centre-right had proposed in its programme; decisions that can break the rules to make citizens - yes - decide who is called to play top roles and who has been good and who is not. Forza Italia has always been in favour of giving the floor to citizens, when citizens are really motivated to ask for it. Too bad that the other branch of Parliament is discussing a constitutional reform that does not respond at all to the announced spirit. I fear rather that this is a prelude to propaganda at the Casaleggio, where it is hoped that, one day, referendums will only be made via the Net, without quorum, even if the quorum - thank God - has been introduced, even if not in the forms that we - for the truth - would have wanted and should have been. We do not want the Network referendums and we continue to prefer ordinary people, possibly prepared, to the trolls. The illusion of the creation of a distorted democracy with direct participation has led to the establishment of an instrument that would create a perfectly contrary effect to the principles that have been put in place by our constituent Fathers. This is the difference between a piece of paper full of clichés and useless goodness and a Constitutional Charter. The Constitution can be written or rewritten in whole or in part, but only those who have great ideas or, possibly, ideas - perhaps that too - can do so. Who has great ideas meets with the great opposing ideas of those who think differently - this is democracy - and not with those who are devoid of thought or bearer of weak thought. Colleagues, without great ideas and a great and uncontrollable love for our homeland I have the feeling that we are talking about nothing or, of course, very little, perhaps at the level of some propaganda tweets with written "made" and - I would add, however - hurt. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u71	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today we are debating a reform which has been awaited for many decades and which has been discussed so much in past legislation, including in the debate on the revision of the constitutional structure. It is a reform in which we believe a lot and, in fact, it was one of the points of the electoral program of the Movimento 5 Stars, as well as of the government contract. We in Movimento 5 Stars have a serious flaw in someone's eyes: we put into practice what we promise to do in the election campaign. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have the utmost respect for the citizens' vote and we do not invent electoral reforms in party secretariats or party leadership, as others do. The reduction we are dealing with today stems from the desire to make the legislative process more rational, simpler and more effective and, at the same time, to respond to the strong demand of citizens - it is the sovereign people and, I always remind everyone - to reduce the costs of politics. The savings resulting from the reduction in the number of Members will be around EUR 500 million per legislature. It is, therefore, an important sum. And the demand for cost reduction today seems even more unavoidable, because the decade just past has been characterized by a long and terrible crisis. It has been years of austerity, of indiscriminate cuts in health care, school, public services, wages and pensions. It is also time for politics to play its part, as has happened in recent months with the cancellation of the absurd privilege of the vitality of former Members of Parliament who do not compare to the social security contributions paid. The abolition was strongly desired by the Movimento 5 Stars because - as I said before - we do what we promise in the electoral campaign. As far as cost reduction is concerned, Movimento has played its part - as you know - since our entry into the institutions, because all of us elected in Parliament and in the Regional Councils give back and donate part of our salary to the citizens. In all these years we have donated it to the Guarantee Fund for micro-credit to small and medium-sized enterprises and since July 2018 we have been pouring it to Civil Protection on a fund intended for people affected by floods in recent months. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that today we are celebrating our restitution day, which is in progress before the House of Deputies. Today we return EUR 2 million to citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is the sum for a single quarter. I invite you too to do so and perhaps you will feel better about yourself and your consciences. At the moment Italy, in the European ranking of the number of MPs in absolute terms, is third in terms of both the House, after Germany and the United Kingdom, and as regards the Senate, or our equivalent, behind the United Kingdom and France. Moreover, in France, too, there is a proposal for a law to reduce the number of Members and senators by about 30%. With this reform, the number of elected members of both Chambers is significantly reduced, but the equal bicameralism in which we firmly believe remains unchanged. And the Italian citizens who have rejected Renzi's counter-reform and acolytes firmly believed in it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] 60% of the voters told you no: make it up to them. MALPEZZI (PD). But 40 said yes! PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). I know it's hard to recover after such a blow, but if you need psychological help, we're at your disposal. MALPEZZI (PD). But consent has reached 40%! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malpezzi, his voice is a kind of background soundtrack. PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). The House will be composed of 400 MPs, eight of whom elected abroad, and the Senate will be composed of 200 senators, four of whom elected abroad: with this reform, therefore, each Member will represent 150,000 Italians and every Senator 300,000 citizens. The reduction in the number of Members will result in greater efficiency in the legislative process - and this is our wish and our conviction - but also potentially a stronger role for the whole of Parliament and for the individual elected, with a consequent greater prestige for our democratic institutions. For Members and senators, responsibility will increase, but also the importance and weight of the work they do in a small number of Parliaments. This reform aligns Italy with many countries of the European Union, which have a much smaller number of elected than our current one. In addition, this reform proposal definitively overcomes the interpretative problems that arose in the past years for the appointment of life senators, since Article 3 provides that the total number of presidential senators in office may not in any case exceed the number of five. I remind myself that someone, in the last legislature, wanted to bring the Senate to 100 senators, "chosen" - it is said - from municipalities and regions, 25 of which - that is a quarter of the Senate - indicated by the President of the Republic. And today someone in this House tells me that we are carrying out a reform that upsets constitutional architecture, weights and counterweights? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] MALPEZZI (PD). It turns them upside down and how! PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). All right, nice consistency. I have heard some of the opposition colleagues speak of an attack on democracy and it is quite strange to hear these arrogant and antithetical phrases from the factual reality, as we of the Movimento 5 Stars have the popular mandate to present this reform. [[Comments from Senator Malpezzi and Senator Stefano.]] Because on this reform, whether you like it or not, we took the vote on March 4th, but here obviously there is someone who hates who takes the votes, preferring the living rooms where to decide who should be parliamentary, which law to approve and which lobby to favor. [[Repented comments from Senator Malpezzi and Senator Stefano.]] A few years ago I heard of excessive recourse to the matter of trust by this Government and of course it was a Senator of the Group who authorised it a hundred times in the last parliamentary term: the usual hypocrisy. MALPEZZI (PD). You're above average! PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). I heard Senator Cirinna, a few minutes ago, calling the founder of our Movimento a political force, a political force, I remind you, voted by 11 million voters. These insults qualify those who pronounce them, certainly not those who receive them and, in any case, I remind Senator Cirinna that it is better to be a voluntary jumper than an involuntary comedian, arrogant and suburban bully, like your former secretary. [[Protests from Senator Malpezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u73	I'll call you back to order, Senator Malpezzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u74	[[Senator Bellanova and Senator Stefano are protesting.]] MALPEZZI (PD). No, Mr. President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll call you back to order for the second time, Senator Malpezzi. STEFANO (PD). How do you call her back to order, ma'am? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Pilgrims. PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). I have heard hypocritically of the excessive reduction in the number of Members, censorship from those who, of course, had put forward similar or even more reductive proposals. In these minutes, while I was listening to these speeches, I did a little research and found a dossier from the Office of Studies of the Senate that summarized the bills of the 16th legislature. Well, hear: Zanda and others, with the Act of the Senate 1178, proposed a reduction to 400 MPs for the Chamber and 200 senators for the Senate (just like in our proposal); not all of them, but Peterlini proposed a Chamber of 300 MPs and a Senate of 150 senators; Bodega and others proposed 250 MPs and 150 senators, and I do not go any further. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It will not go on because your time is up. PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). I'm really done, Mr. President. For us at Movimento 5 Stars, which we propose direct democracy, the relationship between institutions and parliamentarians... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u75	You took eight minutes, not ten: respect the time.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u76	I call on everyone to consider that every Member of Parliament can express his or her thoughts freely and it is up to the Presidency, if necessary, to censor it. Just as I did not do so with the previous speeches considered acceptable within the parliamentary dialectic (I don't say elegant, I say acceptable), in the same way I censored the attempt to interrupt the colleague who was speaking in a tone not necessarily elegant, but still acceptable. At this point Mr Sbrollini should speak and then Mr Rampi, who are not here. In this case I make the last exception and do not make them decay. However, I note that from now on those who will not be present in this Chamber at the time when they have to intervene will lose the opportunity to intervene. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-BP groups.]] In the Capigroup - I tell you for the sake of fairness - the possibility of further interventions was also given, so there is no reason to be rude to colleagues who come after, who do not know that there is someone who is not present and postpones their intervention, find themselves in difficulty in intervening. So my fellow Members, Mr Bollini and Mr Rampi, will soon be called; warn them because when I call them, they will have to be present.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u77	She is registered to speak Senator Gallone, whom I thank for coming promptly. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr President, as long as we still have the power to speak, it is right to be there. Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament is not a club service to be applied for: Parliament is the most sacred place of a rule of law. It is the place where the laws are born, the place where it affects the lives of citizens, the place of democratic representation. Having said that, we are here today to deal for the umpteenth time - the eighth, to be precise, starting with the Bozzi Commission of the so-called first Republic - with the same issue: the reduction in the number of parliamentarians. A choice that we are generally in favour of since it was made, as has already been said many times during the debate and with almost identical points of view, also by the Berlusconi Government in 2005, although in a very different way. The reduction in the number of Members and senators is therefore a subject that has been addressed many times in this House, with choices which are similar to the number each time (in this case, respectively, from 630 to 400 and from 315 to 200). But the numbers are not the problem or the issue on which there is to discuss, as long as we can still discuss, as I said before. This is a delicate decision in any case, because it involves the basic criteria on which our democratic system is based: the parliamentary representativeness and the balance of the powers of our rule of law, criteria which cannot be overcome by direct representation experiments, such as the elimination of the quorum referendary or anything else. We are in favour of a reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, but within the framework of a broader, more organic, overall, rational and constitutional reform of the state system. In fact, to limit itself to reducing the number of Members of Parliament tout court, will simply mean to unbalance a fundamental balance in order to guarantee democracy and, above all, popular sovereignty and will simply mean to create macro-colleges which, by force of things, will create dispersity and distance between the elector and elected, thus to the detriment of popular sovereignty and representation. In fact, if it is true, as my colleague Mr Biasotti also mentioned in a speech that preceded me that our country has one of the most numerous parliaments in Europe, it is equally true that it is placed in the twentieth place by criteria of representativeness, precisely for the relationship between elected and voters; therefore, the reduction of parliamentarians should be accompanied at the same time by a series of fundamental actions of organic and balanced modification of the state system as a whole. First, the strengthening of local autonomy, mortified by PD-led governments, first of all the Renzi Government, restoring, first of all to the Provinces, the role of subsidiary intermediate body, mortified by the blows of laws that little citizenship finds in our constitutional system. The second is the strengthening of the regional autonomy, endowed - I remember - with legislative autonomy, which recalls all the local realities to the responsibility of the government of their territories, without it being possible this unworthy dischargebarile between South and North and vice versa. The third and most delicate point is a revisiting of the role of the judiciary, especially in the civil field, with an increased role of the supreme court, through legislation that provides a binding nomophilachia for the lower grades close to the common law, that allows to find, to those who want to invest in our country, a legal and regulatory framework of reasonable certainty. In addition, fundamental to maintaining the balance of the rule of law is the fact that parliamentary relief must be matched by a lightening of the size and pervasiveness of the Executive and its structures, also providing for a rigid correlation between the number of Ministers, Vice-Ministers, Undersecretaries and the number of parliamentarians and a consequent reduction of the central bureaucratic apparatuses that stifle citizens. All this without renouncing the unmistakable role of representation that is guaranteed to Parliament. I repeat that we are in favour of reducing the number of parliamentarians, because when the constituent legislator defined the composition of Parliament he had a different country, in which the Regions were entities on paper and other problems had to find citizenship in the Constitutional Charter: think of Austrian pressures for the protection of ethnic minorities in South Tyrol. Today, with a changed and changing state in which the Regions, in homage to the principle of subsidiarity, operate with legislative autonomy, it is possible to think of a reduction of the legislative weight of the Parliament and the central government. Ça va sans say that such a reform cannot and must not take place for the sake of economic savings, even if important, because democracy is too important a tool to be subjected to purely mercantile choices; in the same way it cannot be a functional choice to an increase in the power of the Executive that goes to the detriment of the role that the representatives of the people called to represent it in this in the other House are called to play. A government of the Executive has the bad taste of the dictatorship, whether it be monocratic or that kind of diarchy with a social mediator that we are living in: a government in which the two leaders of the parties decide everything and proceed by decree-laws and trusts, imposing on the country their will, making succube and non-existent the role of Parliament. Remember that taking away dignity and role in Parliament means taking away dignity and voice from the people. I think of that freedom that Lincoln spoke of in the famous Gettysburg speech: May this nation (...) have a rebirth of freedom and that the idea of a People's Government, from the people, for the people should not perish from the earth. Freedom passes through a democratic government: of people through universal suffrage, from the people through elective representation and for the people and therefore free from choices guided by propagandistic logics aimed at the self-preservation of power. In this context of renewed or restored freedom and autonomy of society from a central state, in too many nineteenth-century ways, it is not only opportune but even fair to think of a reduction of Parliament in numerical terms and an overall reform of the state system. There are many reasons why direct democracy cannot operate rebus sic statibus and for which it is absurd to think of the referendum without quorum. The first and most important is that a referendum without quorum deeply and irreparablely undermines the majority democratic principle. If the majority principle, i.e. the reason why the minority should be subject to the will of the majority, has already been a concern for lawyers (Ruffini for all), the transition to a minority model in which the majority must comply with the will of a minority, whatever it may be, even appears perverse. To participate or not in a referendum is not an act of disinterest with regard to a topic, but a manifestation of freedom with respect to a subject promoted by a minority, to which I cannot, as a citizen, be called to express an opinion forcefully, even if I think that it is absurd or of no interest. In order to make a reduction to absurd, so useful when it comes to simplifying, if any minority were to promote a referendum to make yellow shoes mandatory for all citizens, it would be absurd to expect me to vote in running, otherwise I would run the risk of having to adapt to the choices of the minority that promoted the referendum. To this reason an even more important one is added, that of informational asymmetry. The reason why the institution of parliamentary delegation exists or in local authorities is due to the fact that the elector entrusts his/her electorate with the task of carrying out diligently, and bearing in mind the reasons of the person who elected him/her, the necessary insights on a subject, while he/she continues to do his/her work and therefore does not have the time or the desire to do so continuously. What the voter expects from his representatives is precisely that they, dedicating their time and their civil passion to it, represent him in the choices. It is an indisputable fact that opens up the issue of the quality of representation, an ancient theme such as Greek philosophy, but that cannot be tackled, unfortunately, if we want - as we want - to remain in the democratic sphere. If a citizen feels, freely and in full consciousness, that he is represented by an unprepared person, or that he has never given anything to society before, he is free to do so knowing that the consequences of the choices that will be made by those who represent him will be first and foremost his own. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u79	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u80	Mr President, as many of my colleagues have said, with great regret we were unable to hear Senator Calderoli's report yesterday: it would have been important because this is the Senate Assembly, in which we will have to confront ourselves (majority and minority) on such an important measure for the very life of democracy. We really want to understand to the full what model of state and democracy you want to build, because we were sincerely accustomed - even in the past legislation - to confront ourselves in a democratic dialectic where the centrality of Parliament was a fundamental point. Now - I must say with great regret - we are witnessing a drift that worries us very much: an increasingly authoritarian government, which wants to dismantle the confrontation, the dialectic, the mediation - fundamental parts of democracy - and no longer even witness a debate, not only in the Chamber, but not even devoting the necessary time to it within the Commissions, where even more the work of each individual Member of Parliament takes place. [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi.]] It is obvious that you have a clear idea in mind, namely to remove the prerogatives of representative democracy, hence of Parliament. Continue to make vicious propaganda, reducing the whole debate to a mere decrease in the number of parliamentarians, and this is truly humiliating and humiliating, but it should also humiliate you of the majority that you no longer feel the responsibility for the role you have and that you should exercise every day in the parliamentary classrooms, and not just on social media. Each of us does our job and knows very well what the prerogatives of the Member of Parliament are. We know well what constitutional structures and reforms - in previous legislation - have been tried to carry forward, with governments both right-wing and centre-left, but there was an idea: the idea of organic reform; there was not only propaganda, demagogy. We would have wanted to do this; we would have wanted to build a model of efficiency: a differentiated bicameralism where finally the roles of Chamber and Senate were clearer, with more streamlined procedures, with a daily work of the parliamentarians able to give faster answers to a society that grows and demands speed. None of this has been found in your words and documents. Here we only want to implement a strategy: that of the Rousseau platform. On the other hand, you have been used to arguing only on social media, thinking that the whole world runs out there. Yet democracy is something different: it is a daily exercise of a confrontation between the parties, of mediation, for which so many measures presented by the majority are discussed, they are faced, perhaps sometimes they are improved, as we have tried to do in the past. There is none of this here, but certainly in these nine months of government you have produced a result, namely that you have torn the country, that you have made it more fragile, that you have undermined the institutions that you yourself should represent. [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi]] with the pride of belonging to this country. But no: you have led us to permanent conflicts even in the rest of Europe, not only within our country, putting them against each other, thinking thus to make everything easier and maybe also to manipulate the consciences and good faith of citizens and to be able to control them better. This is a plan and it is a strategy which I believe has also been clarified during the examination of the budget law, approved without a confrontation between the parties and without even having a moment of discussion in the relevant Commissions. But look at the fact that Italy is something else and, sooner or later, you too will deal with this reality. Our country is a great country, made up of skills, intelligence, professionalism and important responsibilities. You have not even felt the need to confront the constitutionalists and to try in every way to start a debate, not only within the parliamentary classrooms - which would have been the least - but also in the country, because you were only interested in maintaining a constant commitment in the permanent electoral campaign and demonstrate every day that the country does not need to build credibility and dignity, but only propaganda and demagogy. Of course you have achieved this result, but I think that sooner or later, even in a very short time, someone will ask you for the bill. You will be asked by all those citizens who are used to thinking with their own heads, who are accustomed to confront each other and who go around the territories, because many colleagues in the majority are not even used to seeing them in the territories, when we come back from the weeks of parliamentary work. I think we will continue to play our role proactively, because we believe that this is a serious and fundamental issue for democracy. We also want greater efficiency and we had included in the constitutional reform the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, but precisely by distinguishing the role of the Chamber of Deputies from that of the Senate. Mr President, I am sorry to have to speak in an almost empty Chamber, because it has preferred to move on. I hope, however, that this day will at least help us not to repeat such a poor, miserable and humiliating debate for this House. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u81	Thank you, Senator, but I do not know whether this House is empty because we have moved forward or because we have been doing less physiologically during the general debate. He's enlisted to speak Senator Rampi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u82	Mr President, I do not think it is conceivable that the vacuum is physiological, because I am sure that the majority Members who have decided to take up this constitutional debate are going to lend all their time, all their intelligence and all their depths to this subject. It seems to me that there is no rush to adopt this measure, so we want to deepen it. I am sure that in these weeks my colleagues will have deepened it and for this reason I am sure that in these hours and even in the sleepless nights, thinking of touching the Italian Constitution, they will have returned in their readings to those passages of Plato, of the "Politicus" and the "Reads" which spoke of demagogy and of how democracy risks easily decaying into demagogy. You see, that's what's happening in Italy, and not since today; it's happening at least since the early '90s and it's happening as a cultural consequence of the '80s. But then everyone, from time to time, takes on a piece of responsibility and each contributes in his own way to this decay. I am also sure that in these hours they are rethinking their readings of Cicero and those songs of the "De re publica" in which Cicero spoke of the Senate, that Roman Senate that was so important that it had given the name to all the tall Chambers of the world and that we still incarnate to some extent, even if not far away, despite having changed in the structure: for the world we are the Senate of Rome and bear that responsibility. In De re publica Cicero reflected on the authority that the Senate had to have and how such authority was a guarantee for all citizens, while the risk of the strong man in command was a danger. Here, as you all know, as that story ended; how can this story end today in modern democracies is something that we risk experiencing in the coming years and I hope that each of you, in your free conscience, in the free exercise of your parliamentary mandate (according to what the Constitution provides, without any bond of mandate, without having to respond to any external society, without having to depend on any leader), will certainly evaluate in the vote whether what you are doing is something that goes in the direction of giving citizens a demagogic result or of making institutions better, more effective and more efficient. You see, the debate on deciding democracy has been going on in Italy for many years and it is a serious and important debate. I have dealt with people of my political part with whom we have been hard divided and clashed on this point, because it does not belong to my nature and it does not belong to my political part to the fact that we keep things as they are. Therefore, a reflection on democracy and its functioning, on the relationship with the time of democracy and its decision-making capacity, on the fact that these classrooms are not places of pure form and become places of confrontation and true substance is a current and real theme. This may have to do with the number of Members in one direction or another. My fellow Members have mentioned so many times how many reforms have been planned for this reduction. I do not know whether it is right or wrong; Members may be too many, but there may also be too many in your proposal, whether this is a matter of numbers, or even few; it depends on how we organize these institutions. Surely today there is something that does not work, because if there is no such authority, if there is no such credibility, if there is no such ability to respond to people's problems, something does not work. It is a problem and we must deal with it. But how do we want to deal with it? Do we want to choose a demagogic route? Do we want to choose a shortcut? Do we want to choose a path that does not include a thorough discussion? I believe that this is a great responsibility, because, you see, there is no doubt that today the leaders of the political movements that govern the country are at the apex and may even rise in consensus. Look, it's happened to everyone. But the great classical mythology, which is eternal and concerns everyone, reminds us that when Icarus rises, at a certain point, if he does not have the ability to stop, he arrives a little 'too close to the sun, the wax wings melt and precipitate. Of these precipices, in the post-1990s demagogic era, we have seen many of them and I fear that there are some coming. So, as to say, by giving good advice, no longer being able to set a bad example, I suggest the present Icarus stop before they also fall, because it is collective interest. This succession of precipices is not good for democracy and does nothing but indulge the people in the idea that what happens in here no longer affects anyone and no longer serves anything. And if this speech is said, it won't be 200, it won't be 100, it won't be 50, because it will always be too many, even if there are three people in here, because the idea that has passed is that our discussion doesn't serve anything and doesn't solve a problem of people either. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I ask you then to be courageous: we can or could - I do not know what verbal form to use - in this House (and I come to say more: even in the other, if we cannot convince ourselves in these hours, or perhaps in the further passage in this House, if there will be) find a point of contact on the subject and decide to make this reform together. We have proposed amendments to you. These may not be good, then. Let's rewrite them. Have you witnessed the debate in the British Parliament in recent weeks? Did you see what she looks like? What forms does it have and what freedom and reality of comparison is there? Let's get this shape in here. I am not saying that British colleagues are better placed than we are, they have enormous problems and difficulties in decision-making, but that old democracy, even in its present difficulty, still works in its capacity for real confrontation and contamination. I think that's our goal. The rapporteur for this measure, who has a long parliamentary history and has seen so many changes, knows very well that what I am saying is not a speech that we make in the alternation of events, today by majority, tomorrow to the opposition. This intervention could have been done by a minority colleague, the same and contrary to me, in the last parliamentary term. Let us then try to overcome this opposition, because otherwise what you will achieve is only an immediate and easy consensus. It is clear that today, if we were to go to a referendum on reducing the number of Members, this would probably get surprising numbers. Of course, then we will have to see - if this referendum ever takes place - whether that vote will be about reducing the number of Members or maybe it will become a vote on those who govern at that time. If it were to be a judgment on those who govern at that time, in fact, there could also be surprises and it could end unexpectedly even with respect to those who propose it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] So let's focus on this. None of us are alone bearers of the people's judgment. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The people in representative democracies have a single form that is that of their representatives, to whom they have given a trust that must be earned every day, and this confidence is the ability to meet with each other and build the common good. The common good is not something that exists somewhere; the common good is the object and result of comparison. Those who thought of parliamentary assemblies, whatever form they may have, thought of this. Some time ago I was talking to a young constitutionalist who explained to me, rightly, that representative democracy arises when communities become too big and you can no longer stand around a fire discussing one with the other and then you decide that someone around the fire is there and someone else stands a few meters behind, but it is represented by someone among those who are around the fire. He told me that today with these tools we can all stand around the fire, because we have the opportunity to participate. Attention, because that is not true: with these instruments you can express your opinions, with these instruments you can vote, but you can't argue and you can't compare. Being around the fire is different than being away from the fire and sending a message without contaminating. Let us then take the risk of contamination. Let us do something surprising: let us bring the Senate of the Republic up to its role in history and its role in the present. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u83	Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak, who, in the order of interventions, replaces Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so. LONARDO (FI-BP). How come there's no alternation? PRESIDENT. - The debate is In these cases there is no alternation. The order of interventions follows the order of registration. It is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u84	Mr President, I would like to make my little contribution to this process of constitutional reform, which risks, as it has progressed and as we are dealing with it, to pass as a obvious act of ordinary administration, in a framework of substantial general indifference. I will say straight away that I am not prejudiced against this, although we are in a critical position to this measure, to a reduction in the number of Members and senators, and I say this despite the papers that have been given to us by the Office of Studies show us that the Italian situation is not so far away from most European situations, but is basically in line with the number of Members in relation to the number of inhabitants. It can be said that this proposal for a reduction, in itself, is not inadmissible, but is unacceptable if we think we are only dealing with the issue of the numerical reduction of Members. The subject we are talking about is not so much about what is in this proposal, but what is not in this proposal. The subject that leaves us very perplexed is the total absence of a reference framework. I believe - as many colleagues have already said before - that Italy needs a reform of its country-system, but above all of its institutional system: a more streamlined, more effective system is needed, capable of making all those rights that the Constitution grants to citizens, businesses, civil communities and their forms of organisation truly enforceable, and that is also why in the past legislature there has been a strongly reformist push that followed many attempts already made in other legislatures to put hand in a profitable way to the institutional structure of the country. What we sombrely allow ourselves to say is that in this path we would need an accomplished plan that would guide the individual steps and that is what we are asking for at this moment, believing that we can be interpreters of many who are asking for it; that is, we want to understand how this constitutional change, aimed at the reduction of parliamentarians, is placed within a general plan of reform. The drawing, as I said, is not there, although some facts that are happening a drawing let me guess. In fact, if we put together this reform with the reform of the referendum that is taking place in the House and with the statements of leaders of this majority that to some extent allow the idea of a de facto overcoming of parliamentaryism and which suggest a change in order to draw lots - it would be worth saying on the web - the idea of democracy of the future, what we can see is a plan to overcome parliamentary democracy, which then means substantially overcoming democracy. We, in Italy, of dukes who spoke directly to the people have already seen others and have never brought good to this country. [[Senator Rampi's applause.]] I say this above all out of personal conviction, but also of course of interpreting the first voices of constitutionalists who are beginning to bring out, although from our point of view in a completely different way than other pronouncements on other reforms, some observations that show perplexity. We have already tabled to the House a few - very few - amendments, without any instrumental or obstructionist approach, which raised certain issues which this reform, in practice, is turning to the institutional system. First of all, we would like to understand whether there is a willingness to try to reason even if the objective is to make institutions more effective and efficient, on the functions of the House and on those of the Senate. If we really want to address the issue of the efficiency of the institutions, we believe that this is an absolutely central issue. We have put the subject of a reflection on the current adequacy of age limits for the passive and active electorate for the Senate; we have also put a question that arises as a result of the reduction in the number of Members and senators, namely the reasoning on the distribution of colleges and the distribution of elected reformers completed. We shall see what will be the eligibility of these amendments in this House. The fact that these amendments have been considered inadmissible in the Commission raises great concerns that the real aim is to give greater efficiency, effectiveness and capacity to respond to the institutions, and that we do not want to simply offer the citizens something that can easily achieve consensus. I believe that in this House, especially when we talk about constitutional matters, we should be aware that the heart and the centre of our commitment should be the common good of the country. It may seem like an out-of-time statement, far from these classrooms, but I believe that debating and confronting in this House still has a meaning, a meaning, and a concern if the effort on the part of all is to try to put at the centre what is in the perspective of the good of this country. If we were to lose this awareness we could pass any reform, but I think we would set out on a path that surely could not bring good to the future of this country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u85	She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so. The precise fact is that the alternation, when it is thought to do so, is between majority and opposition. In this case, there is no member to the general discussion of the League Group and relatively few members of the Movimento dei 5 Stars, so the alternation is not, even if you want, possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u86	Mr President, I do not insist, but the list was so made. Anyway, there's no problem. I thank all those who are in this House: there are not so many of them, but our democratic exercise will explode in any case. Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, at this very confusing moment in history, what was a need for considerable consideration, the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, becomes an almost secondary fact in the current institutional context in which we have to live. I'll explain. I do not dispute that the number of parliamentarians in Italy is high, nor can it be underestimated that the Chambers are two and that they perform the same function. Needless to refer to the reasons that prompted the Constituents in the post-war period to give themselves such an institutional structure. However, I would like to stress that today we are faced with a Parliament, which has also joined us in these decades of democracy and growth in our country, which today is in danger of seeing the very cornerstones of the constitutional system blown away. I am referring first of all to Article 67 of our Constitutional Charter, which reads: Each Member of Parliament shall represent the Nation and shall perform his duties without a mandate. The relationship between free parliamentary mandate and political representation is considered in all countries of the democratic West a real discrimination between the premodern state and the state of our day. On the other hand, we observe a political movement, now a majority in Italy, which breaks into Parliament explicitly stating that every member of it cannot fail to obey an imperative mandate that would come to this House from an external platform, run by a private society. Constitutional reforms cannot be done by exercising the arbitrariness of the dictatorship of the majority: the reforms must be done by agreeing with the oppositions, to define the places where everyone can feel at ease in the alternation of power. Unfortunately, this dictatorship of the majority, which some pretend not to see, is taking shape more and more, and others accept it with indifference, but so we can enter the shadow cone of our republican democracy. Those who speak to you do not teach constitutional law in some university in our country. Nevertheless, I ask myself and ask you too, perhaps with an excess of candor: who professes such a confiscating line with our Constitutional Charter can enter Parliament and carry out his mandate? I don't think so, but I may be wrong. Correct me if I am wrong, as the Pope said - we all remember him -. The second highly controversial point of this Government's programme is the interpretation of Article 116 of the Constitution, the so-called autonomy. At the end of 2017 Lombardy and Veneto and - after - Emilia-Romagna held an advisory referendum in their respective regions to ask their citizens if they were interested in greater autonomy in certain matters. The response of the ballot boxes, as expected, was plebiscytic. Zaia, the president of Veneto, a strong man of the League of that Region, tried a few years ago to transform its Region into a Region with a special Statute, as one of the five that, for historical reasons, enjoyed in the post-war period such specialty. Mr President, there is a buzz in this House that makes it difficult for me to speak. Please intervene. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lonardo, I assure you that the buzz is well below average, but I welcome your request. LONARDO (FI-BP). It's an average I obviously don't agree with. PRESIDENT. - The debate is One thing is lower than average, but turning your back to the speaker is not nice, colleagues. LONARDO (FI-BP). I was saying that this is a specialty that generally allows a higher standard of living than that of ordinary-status regions. Therefore, as President Zaia noted that the enterprise appeared too complicated (because the Constitution for amendment needs a long and difficult procedure, with the final snare of the referendum), he turned to a less complicated formula. I remember that the last two referendums - the one on Renzi's reform and the one on Bossi's reform (which the Italians, simplifying, had defined the referendum on devolution) - had an unfortunate outcome for both promoters. What does this sudden retreat consist of? He asked to use paragraph 3 of Article 116 of the Constitution, which allows him to obtain more special forms and conditions of This parliamentary procedure allows the purpose to be achieved by means of an ordinary law to be adopted by an absolute majority of the parliamentarians. This is an instrument that no one knows about. In any case, this institutional mechanism allows him to acquire direct management of as many as 23 subjects (many asked for them), of course with relative resources to be retained directly from the tax revenue of his own Region, known to be very high. Only that this enterprise goes into port - and the conditions are all there - and if the Regions of the North unilaterally appropriated the loot of the tax revenue produced in its territory, would skip the equalization fund that keeps alive the weak areas. In a word, it would skip the Mezzogiorno. It would skip the point (m) of paragraph 2 of Article 117 of the Constitution, relating to the determination of the essential levels of benefits relating to civil and social rights to be guaranteed throughout the national territory. As paradoxical as it may seem, the conditions for the success of the political operation are all there. Despite the 5 Star Movimento has obtained 47 percent of the approval in the South, it is possible that, because of the famous contract, it votes a terrifying law for the entire Mezzogiorno, which would annihilate any possibility of development, making it peripheral and foreign to the rest of the country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] For these reasons, while I would like to give the greatest importance to the number of Members of Parliament, also in the light of the last two electoral laws that have stripped voters of their right to choose their elected members, I believe that the two constitutional issues that I have indicated acquire a priority value in the historical climate of underestimation - often indifference or, worse, incompetence - that we record before our eyes. With the avoidance of Article 67 of the Constitution, the concept of freedom in a free Parliament skips; with the application of paragraph 3 of Article 116 of the Constitution, in the form requested by President Zaia, the unity of the country skips. His reasons may seem understandable, but for us in the South it would be frankly the end of all hope and dream (and I take the opportunity to address a greeting to the university representatives, businessmen, trade unions and the world of associations that, gathered in Naples just yesterday, have identified seven points to send to the Government and Parliament). It would therefore, as I said, be the end of every hope and dream for us in the South. It would skip Nation's very idea. With differentiated autonomy we would see a radical rift of being together with the citizens differently Italian. Autonomy is a sanction of differences and makes differences and imbalances definitive. It is unacceptable to us in the South. Finally, I would like to see a way of representing every Italian Province in the new parliamentary context, giving the smallest of them a guaranteed minimum of one senator and two MPs. After all, this is the case in the United States by legitimizing a parliamentary presence in the Senate, which prescinds from the preponderance of the numbers that are given by the population. If this element of constitutional balance does not exist, the areas of the country that are already suffering from considerable depopulation would be reduced to mere geographical expressions and would be expropriated of their ownership. We would have the populous areas of the country to occupy parliamentary spaces in an increasingly brutalized Parliament in recent times in its constitutional functions. If there is no such balance, if the smaller realities do not find their democratic and constitutional legitimacy, then I am very sorry but the battle becomes of a constitutional nature here and above all out of here. I would not want this design to lead to forms of geographical mutilation, expressions of freedom of areas mutilated for reasons of electoral convenience. No, that just doesn't work. Either there is, as far as I am concerned, a way of contemplating these requirements or, vice versa, I express my reservations about a plant that ends up offending the dignity of the pivotal place of the institution. I should like to ask myself: is the plan aimed at reducing parliamentarians or reducing the functions of parliamentarians, given the way in which the Government, in excess of its power and prerogatives, as the Constitutional Court recently pointed out, marginalized and raped Parliament, trying to delegitimize it? It almost seems that Parliament appears to the present majority as an obstacle, an inconvenience and a rhetorical and baroque constitutional expression. When institutional structures are changed, there needs to be a close dialogue between majority and opposition because institutions are the sacred place of neutrality. That is not the case here. That is why I will make my assessments and decide according to conscience and freedom. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u87	Mr President, I am speaking in this debate on constitutional reform with the fear and reverence that those who have the awareness that the Constitution defines the rules of our civil and democratic coexistence by establishing our civil liturgy, where the word "liturgy" in ancient Greece meant action for the people. We are discussing the proposal to reduce the number of Members. It is a proposal that has been put forward by several parties over the last thirty years, which, in principle, I am not opposed to. It is a proposal, however, which has always been part of a broader analysis of the need for reform of our fundamental Charter. If we look at the history of the attempts to reform our Constitution (from the Commission Bozzi of 1983 to the Commission De Mita-Iotti of 1993, from the Committee Speroni in 1994 to the Commission D'Alema in 1997, from the reform Berlusconi in 2005 to the Commission of Wise Men in 2013, to the bill Renzi-Boschi in 2014), all the attempts put in place were developed with an overall view of the constitutional structure. Regardless of whether or not the political aspects were shared, they were solid and clear formulations. All included changes to the functioning of Parliament, as well as the number of Members. These proposals have been rejected because of contingent facts, such as an early end to the legislature, political disagreements or rejections of popular referendums have taken place. What is the vision behind this proposal? The reduction of the costs of the policy, by the same admission of the proposers. It cannot be said that this is a vision, because we cannot see how our democracy can work better, by limiting ourselves to a reduction in the number of Members. It is enough to see him at this time in this House, and we are a few hundred senators who are talking about an important issue. Does it seem to you that this small number of presences allow us to dialogue better and seriously discuss the constitutional functioning of our democracy? I don't think so. I said that the reduction in the costs of politics is behind this reform proposal, but the cost of the operation of Parliament is not related to the costs of politics, but to those of democracy: if this difference is not clear and is distorted and hidden from the citizens, what is it aiming at? The costs of politics - like those you are supporting, after having filled Palazzo Chigi with a large number of collaborators dedicated to communication, never seen before - will not decrease due to the possible approval of this constitutional reform. So what's the goal? The costs of politics that are incurred by foraging a private company, which gives political input and suggests to some Members, with a daily prontuary, what to say and what to do, will not diminish as a result of the possible approval of this constitutional reform. The costs of politics are different from those of democracy, this is really demagogy. If we relate this proposal for constitutional reform to the one under discussion in the House of Members on referendums to amend the quorum for repealing the quorum, we cannot but wonder how we can achieve the objective of reducing costs - according to your will - as the inevitable increase in referendum proposals will lead to a logical increase in costs for citizens to express themselves. And beware: if you think that it is enough to have citizens express electronically to claim that the costs will decrease, you are mistaken; net of the investment costs to have the necessary tools to express themselves electronically, the bulk of the cost of any democratic consultation would not be given by the paper to print the ballots, which would be spared, but by the staff involved. In fact, as experienced in Lombardy, with the first electronic vote in Italy concerning the consultative referendum for autonomy, one cannot avoid to bear the costs for the staff who manage the seat (president, surveyors, secretaries), the Forces of the order called to ensure that the voting operations take place in the seats in a correct manner and without accidents of any kind or the hours of overtime to be reimbursed to the municipalities for the work carried out by the staff in charge of the electoral offices. In Lombardy, a Legist guide, who boasts to be the most efficient Region of Italy, the electronic vote for the referendum on autonomy, net of the investment of 23 million euros for the purchase of 24,000 tablets necessary for the vote, has cost 24 million euros: a considerable amount, if we take into account that the Lombardy Region itself spends 50 million euros in the three years 2017-2019 to finance the rates of public transport. If we measure the costs of the efficient Lombardy to the entire country, we draw from it that an electronic referendum - always net of the investment costs for the necessary machinery and software - would cost the country about 140 million euros for each consultation, which would multiply due to the reform being discussed in the House. But what savings in the costs of politics or democracy are you talking about, then? What you propose is pure demagogy, the word of which the dictionary Treccani gives the following definition: The political practice tending to obtain the consent of the masses by flattering their aspirations, especially economic ones, with promises that are difficult to achieve. This is a method, concludes the Treccani, which represents the corrupted form of democracy or a simulation of this deed. A simulation: here's the goal, simulating democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, President, in my public experience... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u88	I would ask you to listen to my colleague's speech, please, or at any rate to speak with a low voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u89	COMINANCES (PD). Thank you, President. In my public experience I come from a significant administrative commitment as mayor of my city - Cernusco sul Naviglio - and as vice mayor of the metropolitan city of Milan, a concrete experience that allows to measure the effects and consequences of the norms. When, in 1993, the reform introduced into our system the direct election of the mayor and the president of the Province, that important reform, perhaps the best success on the institutional structures of our country, also involved a substantial revision of the number of members of the municipal councils and of the functions assigned to council, junta and mayor. It was therefore an organic reform and if, as said, the reform works is due to this organicity. There was no intervention to reduce the members of the municipal councils for a financial, cash issue. Moreover, let me say that what is still recognized today as an allowance of office to the mayors with respect to the responsibilities that each of them bears every day, in the face of its own citizens and in the face of the law, does not compare with what is perceived by other institutional levels, it does not really compare, but we must have the courage to recognize these differences and these responsibilities and to value them properly, not to keep them for convenience because they are not heard by the masses. This is also demagogy. I shall end by addressing the Presidency and the Government to consider the amendments that the Democratic Party has tabled, which are intended to accompany the reduction in the number of parliamentarians with a change in other aspects, in a specific way of undifferentiated bicameralism. I would like to recall the words of Dossetti, one of the constituent Fathers, who had participated in the Resistance and who, speaking in 1988 of the Charter that he had helped to write, argued: We have done the Constitution in a spirit of renewal, of modernity, at least in some points, at least in some parts. (...) Certain structures such as absolute bicameralism, such as the referendum, such as the configuration of the Constitutional Court were undoubtedly structures of which one could already, to some extent, see then that they would have slowed down much and weakened much the decision-making possibilities that even modern times impose on those who have political responsibility. These, spoken by a constituent Father, are the nodes on which to intervene, not the number of parliamentarians. Therefore, for the sake of our democracy and of concrete and effective action, I would ask the Presidency and the Government to proceed also by accepting the amendments which, by broadening the debate, do not only consider the reduction in the number of Members, but take overall the aspects that allow our democracy to function better and the constitutional arrangements. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u90	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u91	Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, you want to reduce the number of Members by a third. We have told you that on this point we are prepared to deal with a pact: that from here we come out with a reform that strengthens Parliament, which strengthens, with the prerogatives and functions of Members, the capacity of democracy to respond to the expectations and needs of citizens. In the last parliamentary term, we in the Democratic Party not only have not escaped this issue, but we have made an essential point, because we are convinced that social crisis and institutional crisis are tangled together, are two thorns of the same Italian and European issue that for too long cause fragmentation and exclusion, downloading the costs of this crisis on the weakest, in particular on the new generations, making fragile our Republic because there is a crisis of legitimacy that happens when it is hard to recognize itself in a country, in our country, if you can not find a job, if my family, for how many efforts and sacrifices it makes, cannot make me study, if wrong policies like those you are doing, make Italy rush into recession as it is happening. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They take out export quotas, as it is happening, and I am forced to disassemble my manufacturing company. When this happens, my frustration, my resentment makes democracy appear like an empty shell and I wonder where the promise that our children would be better than our fathers ended. It is in this short circuit, in this darkness, that words of hatred such as those which you, Lords in the Government, have used and used to put against one another the weak and those who are even weaker. Qualunquism, nationalism, authoritarian attempts that misuse in a distorted and dangerous way the need for protection, for emancipation that only democracy can achieve. You have won, yes, because you have channeled social hardship against parties, against politics and even against Parliament, but your victory is shameful because it is dangerous, destructive and it is for you a victory for Pirro, because only inclusion, integration and rights create security; only work, knowledge and citizenship create security; only a stronger democracy can counter inequalities that undermine our societies. We know that, but you government gentlemen, you know that? Do you want to solve problems or do you want to amplify them, make them explode, play "so much worse, so much better"? There is no greater harm, there is no worse deception than anti-politics, but not for us who are here, for those who are out and every day fights to realize their own life plan. In fact, in these twenty-five years of democratic crisis, in which the so-called Second Republic has been consumed, anti-politics has been the nourishment of Berlusconism, Legism and Grillism in the same way. And there is a link between anti-politics and neoliberalism, which have not by chance grown together in these years. If our society is weak, it is because the great actors of representation who held it together, social forces and popular parties, today they no longer exist and we say that it is urgent, vital, to re-found them. I am not saying this just because of my thoughts, here is the warning of the Constituents, who have assigned to the parties the civic function of organizing democracy (Article 49), of building renewed participatory forms, capable of always connecting politics, institutions and societies. Trouble breaking this bond, as you are doing. Woe to everyone! That's the point. Here is the issue of the number of Members who are needed to give voice to citizens, territories, especially peripheral areas, social bodies, especially the weakest. Members can be reduced, but if we turn the Senate into a chamber of municipalities, territories and guarantees, then yes, it makes sense, because we are in a position to give new life and function to parliamentarism. But that is not what you want to do and what you are doing: you cut the parliamentarians off like you cut an old piece of money and that is unacceptable! [[Applause from the PD Group]] By feeding and giving reason to the lie of those who say that Parliament does not serve. It's easy to say that it costs too much, it's too easy, government gentlemen, and reckless, because if democracy costs too much, try to remember how much it costs and how much dictatorship has cost us in this country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Every cut you make to one voice is one less voice to represent the citizens, that here, through us, is the voice of workers, of categories, of municipalities. Every time we cross the threshold of this House and ask for the floor, we strive to represent instances, communities. On the other hand, you want to remove those citizens and those demands, because where today a college consists of 500,000 voters, tomorrow it will make up one million voters and it will be impossible to know them, talk to us, listen to them, make politics, build participation together. Take away the voice of the citizens, of a territory like ours, made by small municipalities of the hinterland; you take away your voice. Yours is the deception of those who say that the armchairs decrease, but in reality it will decrease the number of people who will engage in politics to emancipate themselves. You are doing this: it affects democracy and Parliament in a growing state of expropriation; you have imposed confidence on the budget law, preventing it from voting amendment by amendment; you continue to make an abnormal use of the urgent decrees-laws that prevent debate, of the confidence that chokes the debate, you introduce a proactive referendum that risks giving a minority the power to undermine Parliament. Gentlemen of the Government, Parliament is democracy and representative democracy is the only liberal form. That is what Article 1 of our Constitution says: Sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and limits of the Constitution. Is there the essence of the rule of law here and you, Minister - who are not even here today, when we are discussing constitutional reform, are you aware of this formula? We would like to know, because there is written the essence of representative democracy. We would like to know about the statements made to the press by Casalleggio, who, through the Rousseau platform, is the dominus of the main party of this Government, who said that overcoming representative democracy is inevitable; he said that Parliament will no longer be necessary in some way. But how? For us, these are statements that are not only dangerous, but are subversive, because they question the foundations of democracy in our country, as enshrined in the Constitution (Article 55 et seq.). And what does the Minister think of the words of Grillo, founder and guarantor of his movement, who said that democracy is outdated and must be replaced with something else, perhaps with a draw by lot? Mr Fraccaro, we want to know what you think, because you have sworn on the Constitution and these statements are against our Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Senator Calderoli, we want to know what you think of it, because assuming the end of Parliament means assuming the end of representative democracy and therefore of democracy itself, because there cannot exist democracies without parliaments; because deleting representation brings despotism and totalitarianism, and we Italians have already paid bitterly. Enough with the deceptions of the fairy tale of direct digital democracy: the Network, social networks cannot replace democracy, because they are a tool not free but fiercely controlled by private managers, who direct it through algorithms that condition us all in behavior, in voting; they are a tool that leads to a plebiscytic degeneration. President, I conclude by saying that a law on net neutrality and against the conflict of interests would be needed immediately, of which the relationship between the entrepreneur Casaleggio and the Movimento 5 Stars is a disturbing emblem, a case of party-company to the umpteenth power. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The country needs reforms, but not these.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u92	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u93	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, let me conclude on such an important subject. If there are serious reforms, if we want to take this seriously, we will be there; but we will never be accomplices to those who, on the other hand, want to humiliate Parliament and democracy. We won't be accomplices. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u94	Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, why this measure? Why do we want to reduce the number of Members of Parliament? The reports shall state the various reasons for this. Basically, we are talking about increasing efficiency, increasing productivity, rationalising public expenditure and making our Parliament less baffled. In the same way, one wonders why the constituent Fathers, in 1948, predicted this structure, this institutional architecture, dictating a Constitution that gave freedom to citizens, after the terrible period of the World War, but also having the balance, at that time, to take into account what was good in the previous period, which could be considered defeated and compared to which it was necessary to change. I recall, in this sense, the municipal and provincial system, the forecast of the Regions, the French-style organization of our institutions, with prefectual control (in fact the Napoleonic organization), but also the decision to maintain fundamental norms of civil coexistence. For example, I refer to the civil code and invite you to read the text of 1 January 1942, written in the middle of the war, which was a masterpiece, for its balance and for its smoothness and readable by all. Of course, in 1946 an article on morganatic marriage was repealed, because there was no longer the king to marry and therefore there was no longer the problem of who could become queen. Do we have to change? Should our system be made more modern and adapted to the times? Yes, we are in favour of change and we were already, like Forza Italia, at the end of the 1990s, at the time when a great debate began, together with colleagues of the League, on the federal model of State. However, most of us voted for the 2001 constitutional reform: my party was not in favour, but I voted in favour, because it was a step forward in a change, an adaptation and a modernisation of our Constitution. But always, when these reforms have come to fruition, we have been attentive to the burdens and the counterweights, because counterweights, in a democracy and an institutional organization, are used to avoid exaggerations. This model of balance, weights and counterweights in our Constitution, is what allowed Italy to become the seventh or eighth economy of the world, starting from a condition of rags, as we were in 1945. It has also allowed us to become champions of civil rights: I would like to remind you that it is Parliament that has voted on the law on divorce or abortion. They were confirmed by the people in the referendum, but it was Parliament that discussed them and voted on them. As a country we have also become champions of freedom, a country where the social elevator also worked. Excuse me for digression: I too am a lack of workers, two arms stolen from agriculture - then it was said in a denigratory sense, while today this definition qualified a little'more - and I was able to afford to study and to graduate. This was because a balance had been created in the country, a mechanism of social growth had been created, a mechanism of challenge, in which every family and every individual could try. Do we have to touch this balance? Today we are talking about the part of the legislative power: should it be changed? Sure. The same reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, done in the past legislature, has intervened. Should we strengthen the Commission? Okay. The speed of change in our society also determines the need to have, probably, a stronger, more immediate and more active Executive. Should we have the courage to assess the independence of the judiciary, not by contextualizing it, but by a multi-annual evaluation? Let's see it. But let's be careful, colleagues. Parliament must represent all the citizens and those with a majority, even if we are on equal rights, have an additional duty to represent and protect even those who are minorities. The rules must not allow any power to overpower others - that is what balance means - and must not allow those who manage power to exaggerate in its exercise. Let's get modern, yes; let's avoid these risks, okay. But ask yourself why in 1948, following a debate, the referendum was not planned. Were they not the main supporters of the people, of democracy, of vote and of rights? Yet, it was not considered. If we were to hold a proactive referendum on the FTA today, I think it would win the people, but I do not agree with that either, because representative democracy also means preventing groups, lobbying, powers, organizations, companies and organised structures representing a minority from being overwhelmed. In this context, the reduction in the number of MPs can be a small part and can also be shared (the United States has a Senate of 100 people, not of 1,000, then they have a much larger House, certainly). But it is not the number we have to face, but the institutional and constitutional balance that our country must have. We agree on making the system more efficient, giving due importance to the relationship between powers and working better, but we do not want this to be a purely electoral spot. The reduction in the number of MPs has already been rejected by the Italian people, in the last referendum of 2016, but also in the previous referendum of 2006, reforms proposed respectively by the center-left and center-right; so there have already been two votes of the people. I agree with the need to find a solution, but we have the courage to see it as a whole, because the attempts at commercials and attempts at amendment, both to call for a mechanism so well used in budgetary maneuver and also with the simplification decree, risk calling into question the rule of law, rights and representative democracy, which is a guarantee of mediation. Well, we don't want that. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u96	He's enlisted to speak Senator Missa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I believe that this is very easily understood, and that is precisely why I believe it is well known and clear to us: your proposal, the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, is entirely directed towards precise research, the consolidation of consensus. It is an electoral initiative, it is not a constitutional reform; on the contrary, it uses constitutional reform to introduce a process oriented more towards the consolidation of the electoral consensus than to a different organization of the Republic, to give centrality to the Parliament, to reduce the conflicts between the State, Regions and local authorities, to build a new institutional architecture. Constitutional changes are always particularly important: it is no coincidence that the legislator has assigned them a particular path and has defined them, in the quorum, in the passages and in the referendum, as a noble and important element. And we are well aware that touching on a constitutional reform, even with the reduction in the number of Members, nevertheless determines the weakening of important balances. There is one particularly important one, which strikes the Senate of the Republic even more than the Chamber of Deputies: to increase the number of senators to 200 can risk reducing the capacity of representation towards minorities, can produce the leaving out of these classrooms important pieces of consensus and minorities fundamental for the organization of parliamentary debate and for the credibility of democracy, because the thresholds that are determined here risk being particularly high and not always consistent with the principles of representation, even regional representation, to which the life and organization of the Senate of the Republic is anchored. I want to say this in the preamble: we have no allergies and therefore no opposition to the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, but we do not need any further evidence either, because in history the left and centre-left, since the thirteenth parliamentary term with the bicameral Commission, has always indicated that the number of Members of Parliament is reduced by a shared and sustainable approach, but all this, ladies and gentlemen, took place within a re-experimentation of Parliament's centrality and credibility. Ours has always been an initiative aimed at strengthening the centrality, credibility of Parliament and therefore the credibility of democracy as a fundamental element in restoring a new relationship between citizens and institutions, in order to seek new participation in a stronger and more efficient democratic parliamentary Republic. On the other hand, you give up a complete constitutional reform and introduce, for electoral reasons, not by chance today, the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, without any change either of the bicameralism parity, nor of a different reorganization of relations between the State, regions and local authorities, which represent the real fundamental issue from which we should start. So the first invitation that I address to you, precisely in the complexity of the process of constitutional change, is aimed at making you understand how much it would be necessary to seriously reopen the reform yard, renounce propaganda and build a parliamentary sharing useful for the future of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This, if we want to introduce a serious proposal in our debate, should be the height at which a political force should be placed which today is in the majority and supports a government, not reducing the centrality of Parliament. I say this because, Mr Senators, there are too many episodes in this parliamentary term that lead me to imagine and think that you do not care about the centrality of Parliament. We have seen this with the budget law: you have forced us here in this House to vote on a large amendment without having had the time to compare, read and deepen very important issues concerning the economic and financial balance of the State and the repercussions that all this entails in the system of public finance. This was the first serious incident, which led us to an appeal against the Constitutional Court. We have witnessed the underestimating of Parliament's role, with the will to prevent Parliament from expressing itself, for example through acts of direction in the field of foreign policy, as is happening in these hours, in which we are denied the possibility of voting on a resolution. All of this is not a sign of the desire to restore the centrality of Parliament, which means that Parliament is regarded as a burden, a harp and a brake on the relationship between governments and society. This is already a violation of our Constitution, we are already in a furrow that is diametrically opposed to what we insist on and can represent an alternative to this decline, to this constitutional degradation that you are trying to represent. Even denying, in this House, a debate of absolute topicality - because the first thing a country does in recession is to work to unblock public works and construction sites, to generate work and growth - determines the meaning of the relationship between a government and Parliament, and the underlying idea is that you constantly hold Parliament to be a burden, a brake, not an opportunity to enrich the quality of democracy. There are too many episodes through which you are demonstrating it. We have at heart constitutional reforms, to show that the centrality of Parliament can evolve in overcoming bicameralism, recovering efficiency and further relations between regions and local authorities; you think, instead, that Parliament is a brake, a problem, a burden and also the reduction of the number of parliamentarians you place in this context. Seek from time to time an enemy and is the present face of sovereignism and populism, the one that must seek an enemy in its insistence. Colleagues senators of the Movimento 5 Stars, I say it with great institutional respect: continuing to find an inconsistency in the past to hide the absence of a project for the future will not be useful even to the rooting of your consent. I say this because soon the time will be gallant man and the past will be used to write history books: governments and majorities are asked to have an idea for the future of the country and that this is not a reform, but an operation exclusively linked to a consensus, is evident to everyone. So change the way, indicate a perspective to give back centrality to Parliament, to guarantee parliamentary representation, because I would not want and would not want to find ourselves in a democratic system in which we weigh more like a comparison, in which a platform is much more useful than a reasoning within these classrooms, because the real representation of the people is here and is here because it is provided for by the Constitution, it cannot be mestified according to the seasons or the winds of reference. We have nothing against platforms, against social networks, against digitalisation, against computerization, a new field of participation and involvement, but we will never be able to accept to replace the centrality of Parliament with non-noble but ignoble forms, where the communication takes the place of the reforms of the Constitution. This is not acceptable. That is why we are already, in my opinion, in an involutional process precisely to safeguard the credibility and quality of democratic institutions. That is why we invite you to change your path and say so with all the affection and sense of the institutions we carry, so we say that you must proceed without us in this passage. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Without us, because we want to represent an alternative not only on economic and social policies, which we believe to be wrong, but also on the concept and values of democracy. That is our view, which strongly leads me to ask you to open up the reform work, rather than to insist on propaganda, which is useless for the quality of democracy in this Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u98	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u99	Mr President, after so many hours of debate on such an important subject, we are wondering whether there is still something that has not been said and I am thinking of asking myself this question: we are talking about reducing the number of Members and many Members have spoken in favour of reducing the number of Members and, in practice, also in favour of reducing the number of senators, but the first question I would like us to answer is: who is the senator today? What do we ask of a senator today? What are your responsibilities? What are the expectations that are placed on you by voters, on the part of the country? But also, what are the expectations that - let us call it this - the great institutional machinery, which defines not only Parliament, but Parliament, the Government and all its functions, has towards the Member and the Senator in particular? Look, in recent years, in which I have been in Parliament, the feeling that with greater regret I have been able to live even in the direct experience is the progressive reduction of the weight and value of the things that are done. I am not just referring to things which have already been extensively denounced, such as frequent recourse to urgent decrees. It would be enough, for this reason, some statistical indices that would tell us how many draft laws of parliamentary origin have been approved in this month and how many instead have been the converted decrees-laws: we would immediately see that the decree is no longer an urgent decree, but is an ordinary instrument with which, objectively, the Government is rampant in the field of others. But there are also other things, perhaps less apparent, less showy, that define even more the real underestimation of the role of the parliamentarians. I am thinking, for example, of what happened recently with the decree simplifications and - let me say this - the disaster that also passed to the House, where everything remained untouchable, making the mechanism of bicameralism useless. I am thinking of the cut-off amendments: first, the over-production of the purely governmental branded amendments and, then, the complete cut-off of these amendments. All with a feeling of loosening, which once again poses the problem: but who is the senator? How important is my thinking, my ability to make decisions, my ability to influence processes? I am thinking, for example, of a speech that I have recently made in this House, in which I have put one behind the other - and I have also delivered it - all the questions, motions and questions that have never been answered. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This means that, basically, even the ordinary citizen knows that asking us something, in the light of his problems, hoping for an answer that is a way of influencing decision-making, is a probability close to zero. This is the real pathology of the system: it is not so much a question of reducing the number of parliamentarians, but of reducing them to impotence. That means it's like cutting a dry branch. But that is not how democracy is made: in democracy a correct, honest diagnosis, really full of respect for the democratic truth, would lead us to say: how many mistakes have been made in this progressive devaluation; how much salt has been thrown on the wounds and how much salt has been thrown on the ground so that nothing grew, making in fact very little significant the work, passing the desire to present yet another question, yet another question. This, however, is truly the civil death of Parliament and constitutes a progressive draining of freedom. What we want is exactly the opposite: to put the role and value of the senator and the senate at the centre of attention and debate. We Romans are used to reading, at all corners of the streets, the famous acronym SPQR: Senatus populusque romanus. For us the synthesis of the Senate with the population is imprinted in all the tombstones and signs that define the history of a city, an empire, a country: the Senate and the people. We really have a strong feeling that by falsifying the Senate, in reality, people are shutting their mouths, limiting their capacity for expression and putting their own needs, needs and wealth in front of the construction of a renewed democracy. This is what the country needs: to look with new eyes at a democracy that includes, once again, from what was called the Upper Chamber, the competence on the cultural, historical, legal, economic and linguistic level, that includes people who know what they are talking about and who talk about what they know, with that appropriateness of language that - once again - reflects the ancient lemma of the Romans: Rem tene, verba seqientur (if you know the subject, the words will follow). Sometimes we have the feeling that there is no possibility of expressing the specific competence of so many Members of this House, where there are people who come from a long political history and people who come from a long professional history and it is in the right mix between exquisitely political competence and specifically professional competence that we build the bills that take shape in a Commission and feed on the contributions of the majority and the minority. We know very well that when a bill of parliamentary initiative enters the Commission it will emerge strongly enlivened, enriched and modified by the contributions of many colleagues - of the majority and the opposition - in an exchange that arises from the sharing of deep values and the idea that we do not distinguish ourselves on that subject by political belonging, but we respond to it for the role of representatives of the people. All this will be lost, because in the purely autocratic vision of the government that governs itself and responds only to itself of its own decisions we will lose sight that it is in the division of powers that the profound structure of democracy is built. We cannot allow this interference, nor the reduction of Parliament, because, rightly, as has been said, the question is not in the number of Members, but in the fact that this choice responds to an electoral maneuver and with it we say: gentlemen, in seventy years of Republic, one third of the senators who sat in those classrooms was completely useless and, in the accounts, think about how much you would have spared. But how can such a thing be said? But how can you postulate a futility that you have made possible? This government, in fact, in a single year of life, has given a huge boost to the nullification of parliamentary work: it is you who have made the role of the Senate useless. But we expect the government to pass. This is the beauty of democracy: we expect other times and models to come, within which senators can express all their wealth, competence and political passion, in a synthesis between majority and opposition that takes into account, in one case and another, what is good for the country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u100	Colleagues, I would like to inform you of the decisions of the Conference of Leaders, which adopted changes to the current timetable and also established the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 7 March. In any case, today's sitting will conclude the general debate on the draft constitutional law that we are dealing with, on the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament. In the event that we can close the general debate before 8.30 p.m., we will continue until 8.30 p.m. and we will close the votes which would start amendments within that time. On tomorrow, on the other hand, in addition to the conclusion until the final vote of the examination of the measure that we have just mentioned, the general discussion of the bill on electoral matters will take place. In any case, at 3 p.m. the question time with the Ministers for Justice, the Environment and the South remains confirmed. The week from 12 to 14 February will be mainly dedicated to the work of the Commissions. The Assembly, however, will meet on Tuesday, 12 February at 3.30 p.m., for communications from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the situation in Venezuela, as requested by several Groups. Address instruments to be submitted to the vote of the Assembly may be presented. The schedule of the week from 19 to 21 February provides for the follow-up of the bill on the applicability of electoral laws (the one of which we begin the general discussion tomorrow), the decree-law on the income of citizenship and pensions, the ratification of the Lighthouse Convention on Cultural Heritage and the following motions: TAV Torino-Lione; establishment of the Committee for the Issues of Italians Abroad; cultivation and marketing of hemp; establishment of a special Commission on Autism; measures to deal with cancer diseases. In the afternoon of Thursday 21 February, at 3 p.m., the so-called "Premier question time" will take place. In the week from 26 to 28 February, the Assembly will hold a meeting only in case it is necessary to continue the examination of the decree-law on the income of citizenship and pensions. In the week from 5 to 7 March there will be the decree-law Banca Carige (which is being examined in the Chamber of Deputies), the possible follow-up of unfinished topics and ratifications of international agreements defined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. There is also provision for the inspection union and, on Thursday 7 March, the traditional question time at 3 p.m. The timetable remains integrated with the draft Law No 897 and related to video surveillance, if they are concluded by the competent Commission. In the weeks reserved for the work of the Shareholders' Meeting, the Commissions will be able to convene only for the examination of draft laws for the conversion of decrees-laws or for opinions on acts of the Government of imminent expiry.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u101	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly until March 7: [[Wednesday 6 February h. 9.30-20.30 (*) - Follow-up to constitutional bill n. 214 and related - Reduction of parliamentary number (first resolution of the Senate) (final vote with the presence of the quorum) - General discussion of draft law n. 881 - Repeal of electoral laws - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 7, 15) Thursday 7" h. 9.30]] (*) The sitting on Wednesday, 6 February will be able to continue beyond 8.30 p.m. to complete the general discussion of draft laws No 214 and related (Reduction number of Members). [[Tuesday 12 February h. 15.30 - Communications by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the situation in Venezuela]] The week from 12 to 14 February will be mainly dedicated to the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, February 19 h. 9,30-20 - Following the bill n. 881 - Revocation of electoral laws (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 1018 - Decree-Law n. 4, Income of citizenship and pensions (final vote by February 27, 2019) (expires on March 29, 2019) - Drawings of law n. 257 and 702 - Ratifica Convention of Faro on Cultural Heritage - Motions No 65, Laus, and No 66, Bernini, on the TAV Torino-Lione; No 24, Jacob, on the establishment of the Committee for the Issues of Italians Abroad; No 31, Mallegni, on the cultivation and marketing of hemp; No 42, Giammanco, on the establishment of a special Commission on Autism; No 67, Romeo, on measures to deal with cancer diseases - Inspection trade union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to the President of the Council of Ministers (Thursday 21, 15) Wednesday 20 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 21 " h. 9,30]] Amendments to bill No 1018 (Decree-Law No 4, Citizenship income and pensions) will have to be tabled by 12 noon on Friday 15 February. [[Tuesday, February 26 h. 9.30-20 - Possible follow-up to Decree-Law No. 4, Citizenship income and pensions (final vote by February 27, 2019) (expires on March 29, 2019) (*) Wednesday, 27 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday, 28 " h. 9.30]] (*) Otherwise, the Assembly will not hold a sitting. [[Tuesday, March 5, h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 1, Banca Carige (where transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on March 9, 2019) - Eventually followed unconcluded arguments - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs - Inspection union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules (Thursday 7, 15) Wednesday 6 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 7 " h. 9,30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law n.... (Decree-Law n. 1, Banca Carige) will be set in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. The timetable remains integrated with the draft Law No 897 and related (Videosurveillance), where concluded by the competent Commission. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1018 (Decree-Law No 4, Citizenship income and pensions) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 45' Minority Rapporteurs 45' Government 30' Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 41' FI-BP 1 h. 10' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. 8' PD 1 h. 4' FdI 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 35' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 1, Banca Carige) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 30' Minority Rapporteurs 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 12' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u102	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u103	Mr President, the draft constitutional law we are debating today was presented by a dean of the Senate (the decanese is not an offense, on the contrary he would like to be a compliment), who obviously lived, like you, President, the experience of 2005, when the center-right, with the House of Freedom, presented the constitutional project that became law and then, the following year, was - unfortunately, in my opinion - made with little foresight a close confrontation in the country to lead to the disapproval of the measure approved by the Chambers. In the meantime, several years have passed since then - fourteen, at this point - and, with particular reference to the last constitutional amendment, it has been said that in a country like ours we could no longer talk about constitutional changes and that, if the cancellation of the Senate had not occurred at that precise moment, on 4 December 2016, we would never have been able to discuss the constitutional change that could go in the direction we wanted, namely the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. Well, after just two and a half years, we are here: as always, however, not all doughnuts come out with a hole. We should have gone a long way here and agreed on a five-year mandate programme which included reducing the number of parliamentarians, but first of all, on page 1 of the centre-right programme, we had included presidentialism. Since, when we go to touch the Constitution, there are more demanding steps to be taken than the examination of an ordinary law, another opportunity has probably been missed. The presidentialist logic, in fact, is what we - together, as a united centre-right - had agreed with the electoral corps, the Italian citizens, for the previous general elections on 4 March. I do not want to forget that we took 12.147,000 votes, 12.147,000 citizens who had voted for the 103-page programme that the centre-right, after signing it with its leaders, had submitted to them; on page 1 of that programme it was written that we wanted a presidential Republic, so that there would be a President directly elected by the citizens and a Parliament with reduced numbers, of course, as we had already proposed in the constitutional project of 2005, approved by the Chambers. We missed this opportunity, but also another one, because we had not written that we wanted to redesign only the institutional and constitutional structure with the presence of a President elected directly by the people. No; we had also said something else, we had taken into consideration the question of the Provinces which, in our opinion, should have been reintroduced. In this parliamentary term, too, we have tabled draft legislation on this subject, convinced that the Italian Provinces must return to having a President, because this is the first institutional level of serious coordination. Every time I say what I am going to say, some of my colleagues in the majority remind me in the Commission that I have already said so, but I am laughing and seeing that I have been a local administrator for many years and I continue to do so, I will tell you again to the point of exhaustion, because perhaps some of you, who continue to do so, if you forget it: the most important level for a municipality is the provincial one, because in the provincial logic we are talking about the structure of the participating societies and the issue of urban planning. There is no regional regulatory plan; there are some crazy regions, such as Tuscany, that think they can manage everything from the regional scope, therefore Florentinocentric, but it is wrong. We had said, agreed, wrote and signed this pact with the voters that as soon as we had been a government force, we would have carried on the project of the Macroregions, because 20 Regions are an absolute madness, and we would have re-established the Provinces with direct election of the President of the Provincial Council, giving real powers to the mayors and sufficient resources to be able to carry out the activity on the territory. Well, the elephant gave birth to the mouse, because a serious battle could be waged, in the interest of the future of the nation, which could actually lead to a cost reduction, that yes, because instead of 20 Regions there would be five and because we would have given real powers to the provincial council that, in the end, has the same costs as before, since in the meantime, in the logic of the Delrio project that I always opposed, both as administrator and as parliamentarians, the Provinces did not reduce their costs, because the prospect of the shift of staff from the provincial agency to others is resoundingly failed. The Provinces still have the staff but no longer have the functions, they still have the costs but they do not have the receipts. Also on this occasion, in the budget law that was passed, with our proudly opposed vote, before the end of the year, the Provinces had asked us 1.8 billion to try to make investments on schools and roads and 280 million for the current part and we gave them zero for the current and 280 million for the investments (for the series: you understood little). So today we are discussing a matter on which we are opposed? Absolutely not: how could we be against it? We are opposed to the spirit that led us on the road to constitutional change. We had to do ten things and we did half of them. Parliament was first called into the Commissions and then in these days in the Chamber to discuss hours and hours of a measure that could be structured in a presidential way, with the reduction of the number of regions and the redevelopment of the Provinces. 15.04 (Following MALLEGNI). I say, to be even more pleasant, to those who have made a path with us. I look at you, Minister, because there is a replacement going on at the Presidency and then, not knowing who to look at, I turn to the Minister and you know that the Rules of Procedure of the Senate provide for the senator to turn to the Presidency bench (I have been taken up several times by President Calderoli). Let's just say in this passage I was looking at her. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator, but we were both very careful. MALLEGNI (FI-BP). I believe that in this case too the friends of the League have missed an opportunity and tell President Calderoli I am very sorry, but I have to say it: even in this case you have shortcuts. You have arrived with the lion's long nails and you have returned home with those of the penguin, because, frankly, compared to a constitutional provision with which we had to bring home the results that I recalled just now, one by one (from presidentialism, the Regions, the Provinces, the reduction in the number of parliamentarians), we are content with the reduction of the parliamentary number. Okay. I have often heard this Parliament say that we are doing something in the meantime. Let us do something about pensions, let us do something about income, let us do something about great works, let us do something about it. You know what that means? Don't do anything about anything. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It means making little bits and little bits. So at this point, Mr President, dissatisfaction reigns. I hope that the Italian community realizes the situation and, like us, is deeply dissatisfied with a measure that could be revolutionary and instead it is just a warm cloth in an electoral logic that the government allies think they can use during the European elections. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u104	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u105	Mr President, I must tell you that I have a particular concern. Although I know that we should not address individual senators, I would like to address President Calderoli, whom I see in this House and whom I thank. I was very surprised, Mr Calderoli, but I also say this to the Government, that this measure which proposes constitutional reform has been brought to the attention of the House and that there has not even been (I call it that, I apologize) the respect for this House to illustrate, motivate, argue, try to convince because, in my opinion, we are facing a part that is not trivial, insignificant, is not technical; we are not saying that we are still becoming parliamentarians by subtracting another number from an "X" number. This impressed me very much and made me think. I do not say this to Senator Calderoli because I know it will not be for this reason, but I was struck by the fact that the Government, therefore the majority forces, chose not to come to this House to present a vision, a hypothesis of the operation of the country, its institutions and democracy. You should have put together this part concerning the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, that on federalism, which you are dealing with elsewhere, once again, without a real parliamentary debate, and the issue of electoral law. However, what worries me most is that you have broken up between the two chambers: here the reduction in the number of parliamentarians and in the House the issue of the referendum, which is the real point of a political vision that you have. So when we have political but legitimate visions, we should come to this House and explain what we want to do in the relationship between the proposed referendum and the legislative function that must remain in the House and the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This, in fact, is the element that worries me. The break-up you did first of all goes against a story of transparency, responsibility, but also democratic confrontation in the parliamentary classrooms. Not only do we not want to discuss all the proposed measures to amend the Constitution (Senator Collina said so before me and I agree), but outside, there is no discussion in the country. It almost seems that each of these different measures has a value in itself unrelated to the other, thus reducing the importance of these changes. I think that this is an element of non-transparency, of non-political responsibility and had never happened in the history of the Republic. We may not have agreed, not to have seen the other drafts of constitutional change come to an end, or to have advanced others within the different coalitions, but in these classrooms there has always been the vision that was proposed to the Assembly, to the parliamentarians and to the country of the reasons for the changes, of the changes that they wanted to propose. On the other hand, in this House we do not even have an overall view of presenting a single measure, because the same majority in the Senate that has some constitutional amendment measures discussed in the House has another part of the measure discussed and with some regions even the issue of federalism. In my opinion, this is a point that we have the political obligation, even before political parties, to communicate to the country. At this juncture the connection between these measures is being removed from the country and I think this is the first democratic damage in terms of transparency that you have chosen to do, to make everything simple, as if it were a walk. It is not true that these changes do not affect them. I come to deal with two other issues as well. I am very concerned that we are not discussing the two measures together, the one on the agenda here in the Senate and the one under discussion in the House on the proposed referendum. I quote a source I know not to be loved by everyone, but it is always useful to quote it. I think Norberto Bobbio was right when he said that nothing is likely to kill democracy more than the excessive fake democracy and populism, exactly what is happening with the proposed referendum. There it opens up to partial lobbying, there is no clarity on matters but above all there is no clarity on the legislative function: whether or not it will remain to those who will be elected to the House and the Senate, considering the laws that will be presented by the so-called - fundamental term that lies in our Constitution - people. Colleagues, this is the emptying of the elements of democratic function. I think this is the subject on which we must all think together and reflect because, in my opinion, it is worth, even in our internal debate, knowing that this connection exists, that it is a vision of democratic emptying that all the speeches of the Democratic Party have demonstrated. We are not prepared to support it because for us the democratic relationship between the elected and those who obviously elect, with a reasonable number of reports, remains fundamental, but above all the democratic function of the legislation, therefore the legislative rules that are made only in the parliamentary fora. This is a basic principle of liberal democracy; it is fundamental from this point of view, as well as being the foundation of our Constitution. I do not list the issues under discussion, which from my point of view are also unconstitutional. We'll see about that. At the same time, however, there is also a political fact of method. I say this because in this very House a part of us in the previous legislature has lived on constitutional reforms a relationship between majority and minority with a political choice, because we choose confrontation, mediation. It is not something that happens if you agree or not, that is, if the minority agrees with me then I listen to it, otherwise I do not listen to it. The choice of a political mediation is a precise choice that is made. Too bad that in this House and in the Commission, for example, we do not choose to listen to the amending proposals that the oppositions have put forward. This is also an element of the political assessment of this measure. I want to understand why the House is having a discussion between the majority and the minority; there are debates and receptions - right or wrong I remain of the opinion I have expressed - but there is a dynamic relationship, as it is right that it is on constitutional reforms, between majority and opposition Here no. Here, Mr President - I am telling you explicitly because it would be worth telling President Alberti Casellati - in the first Commission we found ourselves faced with the fact that the President of the Commission considered the proposals we have made as a matter of fact - following a choice which, however, is made of constitutional reform, a reduction in the number of Members - as regards the composition, functions, and the consistent and consequent changes, from our point of view, to the legislative text presented. To declare that there is extraneousness of matter - I would like to stress this - means exactly that our proposals do not interest him, that they do not even want to take into consideration them, not even the one we think so popular that should be taken into account, that is, the demand for the same active and passive electorate base between the House and the Senate. To declare quite frankly that even such a proposal is out of the question when changing the number of Members of Parliament, I consider it really strange. Not to mention the fact that from our point of view we should think of the presence of self-governments. This is another point of denial of the relationship between majority and minority when discussing constitutional issues. We have never used it; we have not done so in the previous parliamentary term, no one has ever used it; rather, on every constitutional change a relationship has been sought because it is known that the relationship between majority and minority has political value. I believe that we will have to have a full debate on this before we reach the final vote on the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u106	Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to address the Minister: I will speak with the Undersecretary, but I would have liked to have the Minister here for relations with Parliament and direct democracy. I quote the full name of your delegation, because I think it relates to what we are discussing today. Already some commentators, immediately after the birth of the Government, had highlighted and noticed that it was almost an oxymoron to speak of Minister for Relations with Parliament and Minister for Direct Democracy. Parliament is in fact the emblem, the temple or the instrument - use the noun you think most useful - of representative democracy. This definition of your delegation, Minister, which is not - but I hope they will tell you this - leads you to have relations with Parliament, which is not very frequent since you are not even here at this time, but you are also pushing for direct democracy. We should not have been surprised, even if the oxymoron is all there is to it, because in many political statements that we have heard there were signs in this regard. At the beginning of the last parliamentary term I recall that the arrival of the 5 Star Movement in Parliament had been greeted by saying that Parliament would be opened like a can of tuna. There has always been in the speeches of the leaders of Movimento 5 Stars the need to overcome representative democracy and then we have also reached the hypothesis of the draw of parliamentarians. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what relations the Government and the Minister for relations with Parliament have with Parliament in this parliamentary term. We have had some very significant examples, and the most striking one, which really is a uniform in Parliament's history, is the last budget law. The fact that we can't even read the maxi amendment and then get to vote on a budget law whose content neither the opposition parliamentarians nor the majority parliamentarians knew about it was really a disgusting incident. Moreover, having some time to read the measure, mistakes could also have been avoided, which were then recognized by the same majority. I quote two for everyone: the so-called goodness tax, namely the doubling of the Irpef rate for the Onlus and voluntary associations and the failure to continue the tax exemption for those who have been hit by the collapse of the Morandi bridge. These are two things that the government has admitted to have to make up for, but maybe, if there was time to read, maybe we could have avoided mistakes, because then it takes time to make up for it. Let us also think of the so-called simplification decree: we have spent hours and days without even being able to understand the timetable of work, with senators in fact held hostage, without respecting the time, dignity and sense that must have the work done in the parliamentary classrooms. These are signs that we must not forget. So, by addressing my colleagues in the majority who are listening to me, the real issue is what you want to do with representative democracy and what you think about democracy. On this subject too there is a series of clues. In many statements we hear you say that you represent 60 million Italian citizens. Those who govern should really govern, thinking of the 60 million Italian citizens, which I do not think is always being done. But it does not represent 60 million Italians; representation is what we find in this Parliament, which is most composed. The President-in-Office of the Council proclaims himself a "people's lawyer." On the TAV I heard the Minister of Infrastructure say that the Government is sovereign; in fact, the TAV was approved by Parliament, because it is an international treaty and, in the current Constitution, it is Parliament that is sovereign in this case. Also on the case of the Diciotti ship, on which the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys will have to speak, the issue is not whether Minister Salvini should be judged or whether it should be the whole Government that puts the memory. The theme is: Can who rules be over the laws? Can the political decision be above the laws? I quote these clues because, in my opinion, they are indicative of the type and quality of democracy that this majority wants to represent. There are weights and counterweights in the Constitution. There is a focus on the relationship between the Commission and Parliament. And look at that, who in the course of history told the Government "I represent the people, I am the people," in Italy did not work very well; let's not forget it. Democracy serves. What's on your mind? Is there a plebiscite model? I do not hide from you that I, like my previous colleague, am concerned about this parallel debate. We are discussing the reduction in the number of Members and the House is talking about a reform of the proposed referendum. This proposal will in fact give rise to a very strong contrast between Parliament's legislative function and that which could generate this type of referendum. From all these indications, which give me much concern, do I assume that there is no need for reform? No, of course; we need reforms. The Constitution is not untouchable; indeed, in the Constitution itself it is inherent in the way and path in which it can be updated. The debate on parliamentary reforms is, or should be, a high moment in the parliamentary debate. As you know, we ourselves committed ourselves, in the last parliamentary term, to a complex constitutional reform, with many open issues; this reform was then rejected in the referendum. This is to say that we feel the need for reforms; it is not a desire to repudiate this need, we do not reject what we have done. We have not won the referendum, but we believe that constitutional reforms are necessary, just as we believe that democracy serves and is important. But it needs to be updated. Among the amendments that we have tabled and which have not been accepted in the Commission were again - because you know that it is our point of view - overcoming the perfect bicameralism, because it is necessary for the times of democracy to be reduced, for democracy to become effective and to respond quickly. We all know that the identical and equal shuttle between the House and the Senate of the measures is antihistorical and certainly does not help us to be credible as an institution. But we cannot talk about this. Just as we are not talking about federalism with principles of solidarity, we are not talking about the balance and the counterweights between powers or the excess of urgent decree, which is another anomaly of the situation; all this is not reflected in the proposal. What is it? There is only a reduction in the number of Members. It is a gracious scalp, I understand it well; it can be wielded very well in the electoral campaign. But you do not pose important problems, because emptying representative democracy does not open up to the power of the people, as you say, but it opens up to the risk that lobbying will determine the choices; and this is a serious problem for democracy. Of course, I am convinced that this measure has a particularly electoral interest and that is why you have put nothing else. I already have almost in my ears the slogans with which you can say 'here', the Democratic Party has spoken against, because they are the party of the caste, because they are attached to the armchairs' and I say only this because I am generally a moderate person, but I expect much more. Well, I say to you today in this House, imagining that you will wield this scalp in the electoral campaign: please, at least this time, do not be so dishonest. The Democratic Party is for the reduction of parliamentarians; we would not have strongly wanted that constitutional reform, if not so, but we are not pretending to be a facade unanimity on something that is not a reform, but it is simply a perhaps smart move, but that we hope the citizens can understand and judge as such. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u108	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u109	Mr President, I would also like to point out that even if members of the government, my fellow senators, were deprived of their status and cross-referenced the number of Members of Parliament with that of the population of the Member States, Italy would place itself at European level at 22nd place out of 28. So, at least in this case, unlike usual, we're not the taillight and we're not the evil exception. Of course, we can discuss everything and therefore we can also discuss the possibility of reducing the number of Members. It has been done so many times in the past: the first time it was done in the framework of the work of the Commission chaired by the Liberal Aldo Bozzi (it was 1983), then there were the Commission Iotti-De Mita, the bicameral D'Alema, the organic reform of the Constitution launched by the government Berlusconi, rejected by the voters with the referendum of 2006, and the reform Renzi-Boschi, rejected by the voters in 2016. The precedents are, but they are of different seed: in all these cases it was, precisely, organic reforms of the Constitution, the powers of the State and the form of government within which there was also discussion of the desirability of reducing the number of parliamentarians, but it was a debate on the sidelines, marginal, almost irrelevant to the scope of those reforms. In this case this is not the case: the draft constitutional law we are talking about today has as its object only the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. One wonders what the logic is: is it perhaps to make politics stronger and more authoritative? Is it to make Parliament's work more effective and efficient, or - as we say today and it is a good thing that we say so, even if it is often done in bad faith - to support the concept of the primacy of politics? Obviously not: the logic is exactly the opposite, that is to degrade politics, because the only argument to credit this reform, in the narrative of the parties that support the government, is the economic one: the money taken from the caste. Still with the ancient spirit, still with the narrative of politics as a matter of crime, privileges and money. That is, if you believe that this system can fill the gap - and it would be foolish to deny - between citizens and Parliament, between citizens and politics, between citizens and the Palace, you deceive yourself. If you had read some history books you would know that the outcome will surely be the opposite: from Robespierre to Matteo Renzi, those who intended to justify constitutional reforms or reforms of any kind with this figure and with this key reading did not end well. We still remember: the reform of the Senate - hear, hear - will save us a billion, said the then president of the Council Matteo Renzi. In a clear political difficulty Emmanuel Macron is trying to accredit a similar reform on the number of MPs represented at the Elysée, but these are small tricks. So you continue to feed the beast of anti-politics, feed it with steaks dripping the blood of the political class and the beast will fatally torment you too. In a country that spends more than 800 billion every year it is ridiculous and even a little dangerous to go and try to make spending economy from the institutions and from those constitutionally guaranteed bodies on which depends the functionality of our democracy. But perhaps it is not a coincidence, indeed it is certainly not, because Minister Fraccaro, who I see intent to write to the computer, certainly said it with an admirable intellectual clarity: the two measures go hand in hand, that is the reduction of the number of parliamentarians is accompanied by the measure that wants to introduce the proposed referendum in this country. The consequence of the proposed referendum, as it was thought, of course, will be to completely annihilate Parliament, to completely deconstruct the state, to completely marginalize politics. For you 500,000 signatures, or rather 500,000 clicks on a digital platform, will be worth more than the vote of millions of voters. It is clear that this destroys democracy and delegates itself to a few, driven by the interests of very few, legislative power, because it is clear that this system, if it were really introduced into our system, would be a splendid service to lobbyists and interest groups. What would you do if you produced weapons in the Trompia Valley? I personally would wait for the first fact of black news (made of black news, unfortunately, they have always existed and continue to exist, in our country). Is there a robbery with massacres in a Triveneto mansion? Very well, the next day I would invest a few tens of thousands of euros in a social campaign, I would easily collect 500,000 signatures and the liberalisation of the sale of firearms would be law in this country. So for the interests of the tobacco lobby, for the interests of the gambling lobby, for the interests, clearly well represented in this House, as in the Chamber of the House, of the web giants. So, do you really want to make legislative power available to lobbyists and small but powerful interest groups? Think about it, if you don't do it out of the sense of institutions, out of respect for the state, at least do it out of survival instinct. It is clear that, if this instrument were already in the availability of Parliament and the political class, we in Forza Italia would take a moment to collect 500,000 signatures on a law to introduce immediately the TAV, or to immediately launch the flat tax, which the League obviously forgot and which disappeared from the horizon of this Government. And what would happen to your government if these referendums were successful, how, of course, would that happen? Divided as it is on these two points, it would fall fatally. It is not, therefore, a way of proceeding respectful of Parliament, politics and the institutions, but it is a way of proceeding that is independent of politics, regardless of Parliament, regardless of the institutions. In this House last week - it seems to me that it was Wednesday - an important speech was made. The League Leader, Senator Romeo, followed by the Leader of the Movimento 5 Stars, Senator Patuanelli, spoke of the primacy of politics. It is a broad, profound concept which is rarely used, especially in the parliamentary classrooms. At that concept I was initiated many years ago by a gentleman who was a politician, even if he thought that politics was not a profession, but an art, by a gentleman who, when writing the word "political" on a blank sheet, wrote it with a capital "P." That gentleman's name was Francesco Cossiga. I wonder what Francesco Cossiga would say in the face of your proposal to reduce the number of parliamentarians and in the face of your proposal to introduce the proposed referendum, what would he say about your rhetoric about the primacy of politics, about the first Italians, about the first Italians, about the first state, when everything you do and propose by formal acts of government clearly goes in the opposite direction, that is, destroying politics, destroying institutions and consequently, since the force of politics is the strength of States, destroying the credibility, the authority and the strength of the Italian State. If you do not want to stop, then, accompany this reform with a vision - which would already be something - but possibly with a broader vision. Do we want to reduce the number of Members? Let us do this, but at the same time let us put the problem of the lack of representation that this reduction would pose: less parliamentarians, less contacts between the territories and the palace. Then we elect directly the President of the Republic or the Head of Government (I prefer the first, but we can also discuss the second). Do you want to reduce the number of parliamentarians? Well, do it because of a vision, a principle that has to do with the general interest; do not do it by denigrating politics and to give a clear blow to the political caste. Not only because you are the main representatives of the caste, but because you so sedate the branch on which you are seated, on which we are all seated and on which the entire country is seated. If you do all this, if you give politics the honour that few politicians and many aspiring politicians have clearly denied it, my vote will be assured. If you do not, it will be clear to everyone that this is yet another measure designed solely to gain some electoral advantage at the expense of democracy, institutions and politics, and I personally will not be able to accept that. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u110	He is enlisted to speak Senator Pharaoh. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u111	Mr President, one thing strikes me in this debate, namely the fact that a political government force, one of the two political forces of government, namely the League, is totally absent from the debate on this measure. The rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, did not speak, nor was there a single speaker from this party. I believe that this is the result of an approach that is inherent in the formation of this Government, of this group and also in the way of governing. Everyone has his own measure, so there is no government that presents organic proposals on all issues that affect the country, including constitutional reform. Here is a government, in which there are sponsors, ministers or parliamentarians, depending on the measures that are being discussed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Right now it's up to Movimento 5 Stars. So we are not imagining an organic constitutional reform that holds within the issues that have to do with the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the differentiation of the functions of the Chambers, the functions of the Regions. We are not talking about this, but about a measure that must be used exclusively to allow a commercial to populism, which at this moment is the turn of the Movimento 5 Stars. It's up to me to govern with the exchange and therefore to think about government measures in the way that one day it's up to you, tomorrow it's up to you, I think it's an element and a way of governing deeply wrong, just for what I said just now: because it doesn't allow us to reason organically. And when dealing with the Constitution, this becomes even more serious. Therefore, there is no organic reform, and I also remind colleagues in Forza Italia who are preparing to vote in favour of this measure: you too have presented an organic reform of the Constitution; we have presented an organic reform of the Constitution. This, instead, is not an organic reform of the Constitution, but a commercial of the Movimento 5 Stars, because then we will have to listen to Fraccaro who will go to the square or to Montecitorio or in front of Palazzo Madama with yellow balloons to shout: "yeah, we cut the parliamentarians". After that, what will change for us, what will change for the functioning of this democracy, is not known. When we thought about constitutional reform, for example, we thought about differentiating the functions of the two chambers. It doesn't change anything here. When we thought about constitutional reform, we felt we had to revise the referendums, we thought about a different function and a greater representation of the autonomy. We had also thought about the way in which the President of the Republic voted, and that the audience that elects the Head of State was wider than what we would have if this reform were to pass. But no, it always goes on with the reasoning of the exchange. I heard Salvini say a moment ago that he would sue anyone who imagined that it was an exchange between the vote, which will be shortly, on the authorization to proceed with him and the work on the Tav. I am also being questioned, because I believe that this exchange will take place and is being practiced in Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is the same exchange that, at this moment, the League and the 5 Star Movement are putting on the table on the measure under consideration and on what will be voted on in the Council of Ministers on 15 February, when we are discussing the disguised secession. In fact, little is said about this, but we are already paying for the regionalisation of health. I believe that regionalizing education is a serious fact, because it implies the idea that the richest regions can go more quickly and make better use of the resources deriving from their own taxes than the poorest ones, thereby preventing all regions from starting from the same point and with the same potential. The one that's playing field in the country is a masked secession. It is being done quietly, much more than when the League cried out to us southern lands, but - at the same time - it was unable to practice secession. Today perhaps she screams less, because she is interested in our votes, but - at the same time - she has found a fellow governmentman who allows her this masked secession. [[Applause from the PD Group. Bursium]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u112	Senator Pharaoh, I'm sorry to interrupt, but there's a buzz in the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u113	I ask colleagues in the Forza Italia benches to lower the volume of their conversation. Please, Senator Pharaoh. FARAONE (PD). We believe that, even in this case, the League has found a government partner who can finally allow it to practice what it had not been able to do in the past years. Among other things, there is a really surreal aspect, which relates to the hesitation expressed in relation to the constitutional reform that we have been thinking of in the past legislature. I am convinced of that system which, paradoxically, would probably have allowed the Movimento 5 Stars to govern alone in this legislature and have a majority in order to approve the reforms quickly, in one House alone. So, in fact, if that constitutional reform had passed that we had imagined, thinking about democracy and its functioning, beyond who would rule the country at that time, paradoxically today we would have to endure the 5 Star Movement to the government alone. However, it would have been a democratic path that would have led to victory and it would therefore have been correct that the Movimento 5 Stars could then quickly govern and approve the measures they consider most useful for this country. Instead, thanks to their no, today we must bear the representatives of the Movimento 5 Stars who tell us that they were forced to the contract, because we adopted an electoral law that did not allow them to have the majority. No, ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that if the referendum had passed, you would probably have had a majority and you could have ruled. We must also bear Salvini who says that, if he were in the government alone, he would have done something else, while so he must settle with the Movimento 5 Stars and is conditioned. If that constitutional reform had passed, with differentiated bicameralism and - alongside - a majority electoral law that would have allowed the political force arrived before having a majority (a constitutional reform that you then considered an authoritarian drift and a danger to democracy), we probably would not need today the Government of the exchange, which sets up the measures and considers them useful only if carried out by a green or yellow minister. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We apologise at least, President. At that moment there was no discussion of authoritarian drift or of something that had nothing to do with democracy: at that time we were discussing constitutional reform. Like it or not, it was a serious constitutional reform. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Therefore, while we are discussing the Bignami of that authoritative constitutional reform, rather than standing on the roofs, we are here discussing with you, because we are different from you, dear Minister Fraccaro. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are in fact discussing the Bignami of a reform that will bring no advantage to the country, except the possibility for you, Minister Fraccaro, and for colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars to fly the yellow balloons. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I believe that the country and our Constitution need greater respect than is being offered to us. I shall conclude, Mr President, by asking the majority forces, because we are still in time and we are still convinced that we need that constitutional reform, that we need ambition - also taking advantage of the fact that there are responsible people here, not people on the roofs - to think of constitutional reform together again, so that this legislature can be useful. I am convinced that this is indispensable. So, if you could reason for constitutional reform by keeping all the really useful profiles inside, I think everyone could play their part. If, on the other hand, we have to think about the populism spot and about a measure that is not actually put in place to improve our institutions, this is the first step towards the erosion of Parliament. The reduced number of Members is not proposed to make Parliament work better, but to say that, since Parliament does not work, a few Members are taken away from us, but the aim in the future is to remove them all. I think that this is something that must be countered with all possible forces. I believe that that of the authoritarian drift - and I close, President, to avoid his call - is an idea that the leaders of the Movimento 5 Stars have in mind: they have said it and have not hidden it in the past. If they want to choose each other for draw, consider themselves all the same, make them. But when all this becomes a constitutional bill and the issue becomes a little more worrying, I think we must have the ambition to change the Constitution seriously, because reform is necessary. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u114	She's registered to speak to Senator Valente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u115	Mr President, as Senator Binetti rightly said, it is difficult to speak after so many speeches without risking being repetitive. I will really try in just a few minutes to dwell only on some aspects of the issues and topics that have already been mentioned by many of my colleagues, particularly my colleagues in the Democratic Party. I start from one of the main considerations of Senator Fedeli and I address myself directly to Minister Fraccaro, who has finally arrived among us and for this we really thank him, because this is an important debate: so, after having spent whole days discussing alone in Commissions, with the House half empty, with very few interventions by the majority, which really count on the fingers of one hand, at least we can speak with him. [[Applause from the PD Group]] At the beginning of this process, Minister Fraccaro had announced that the process of constitutional reform of this majority would be in pieces, with individual interventions that would be carried out in a distinct way, probably also with the aim of subjecting them individually and specifically to constitutional referendums, perhaps taking into account some errors of assessment made by us in the past. [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi]] He must surely be recognized the honesty and legitimacy of this position and so you are proceeding. As Senator Fedeli said very well, you are bringing us a piece here: I don't know if and how much is the most important piece of an organic design, but it is definitely an important piece of this reform. Another piece, the one on the proposed referendum, is for the attention of the House; other pieces will come and I think of the electoral law, which you will probably not modify, but obviously changes the colleges in case this piece of reform should be approved, with a delegation that - I think I understand - as a Parliament you want to give to the government. Then there are the CNEL and other pieces of this reform. So let us say that you have chosen - legitimately, I repeat - to continue in this way. What, however - I tell you frankly - I do not think it is only legitimate, nor honest, nor do I think it honors this Parliament and this Government, is to do all this or pretending that there will be no organic reform - and in fact, of course, there will still be, as a result of the sum of all these elements - or even knowing that there is, but not allowing the debate on it. Therefore, aware or unaware, do not allow this discussion, because you do not present us with the reform or allow us to discuss its whole. You have not allowed this today - I repeat - by presenting a report to this House and by the speeches made in this House, or even in the Commission. So we don't have a reform, but it's in fact there. I repeat I do not know if there is, if you cultivate it consciously, unlike what many of my colleagues have said, and if you are deeply aware of where you are taking us or if you are not even aware of it, so think of commercial interventions, that you can skillfully play in a perennial election campaign (and I do not know what alternative is the worst, to tell the truth). In this way, you are forgetting that you are not always in the election campaign and above all that you are no longer a force of opposition, but of government, and that, in addition to speculating on difficulties, suffering and anger, you have the honor and the burden of giving answers, tucking in your sleeves. Many colleagues have already supported it better than I have, so I can proceed quickly on the point, but I say this because your choice not to talk about the reform probably - if this awareness exists - you imply a dramatic plan for the democracy of this country that tends essentially to defeat and degrade, undermining the foundations, the democratic system of representation, as we have known it to this day and as it is dear to Italy and our tradition. You do so with a level of irresponsibility such as to force us to a reaction, which is what we try to put on the field in these classrooms, but above all to require an intervention with knowledge of cause, punctual and precise. We have tried, especially in the Commission, to build timely recall amendments, which would also help to circumvent and eliminate the risks of this attempt. I repeat that we have done so by making very specific amendments. You, however, have not allowed us to present them, and therefore not even to debate them, because the majority and the President of the Commission have even declared them inadmissible, showing that they think only and exclusively of a perennial electoral ad and propaganda; but we have thus revealed your game, because you live on this. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] One question, however, I would like to ask you: today you are proposing that we reduce the number of Members who need to be reduced because, in your opinion, it is obviously too high. But too high compared to what and for what? We too considered it too high in our reform of Parliament, but the reason was that we wanted to make it an organic, functional one. As a result, the numbers would fall, because we thought of a functional reform, in order to attack a problem, namely the deficit of democracy and representation. [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi.]] We were attacking that problem to try to give an answer, not to ride the anger or undermine even more a democratic setup already hard put to the test. We, then, did so with that spirit. Today, however, although you have completely ignored the possibility of considering such an attitude, you say that you want to reduce the number of Members. It is clear and clear that this is an element that gives consent, which is the only thing you are good at doing, even when it costs a lot to the country, and you are continuing to do it. But I want to ask a question and I really hope in a reply, in an answer: is it too much compared to what? Compared to other European countries? We know that's not the case. Is it too expensive? How much does a Parliament cost in your opinion? I ask you: how much does a Parliament cost in your opinion? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Tell me a figure, I want to know the amount because I want to understand that too much is considered compared to what? Too much of what Parliament should do? And then we think about the functions, then look at our amendments, we told you how we should rethink the functional structure of the Senate, the House, Parliament, if we really want to attack this problem, if you really care about it. But to have such an issue at heart requires seriousness, rigour, competence and love, love for the country, not cynicism. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You don't have to play on the Italians. You have done so in economic matters by bringing Italy into recession with your measures and with your propaganda. You have done so and only you can believe that the recession depends on previous legislation. You tell yourself, you tell each other and you don't believe it, you don't believe it either, you know it doesn't. Now the price of your propaganda makes us pay for our institutional structure, which, perhaps, is even more serious. You do so thinking that you are always a majority and it is a serious mistake that makes those who suffer from delusions of omnipotence. You will not always be a majority, luckily of this country; you will not always be a majority because with this plan of yours - I repeat - that you are aware or unaware of it, the prerogatives and the representation of some territories are mortified in a dramatic way - and you know this well - the possibility that for entire territories there are even political forces that will be able to express a representation in that territory but I say even more: have you tried to do the accounts? Our study office has given us a dossier which gives us examples: if a Commission composed of 14 senators acts in a deliberative forum, how many senators will be able to approve a draft law in the Commission? Do you realize what you're coming to? Have you at least taken a conscience? I honestly don't think so. I sincerely believe not because you do not care about the contribution of merit that we can give but above all you do not care about the good of this country, you prove it once again, and this I believe is the most dramatic element of this further page. After all, you have already given enough solid evidence. President Mattarella had to intervene in order to ensure that the bad, risky practice of humiliating this Parliament was not, in fact, a one-off practice. He told you to be careful because what happened with the budget maneuver must never happen again because unfortunately your strategic plan comes out of the measures you are approving but also from how you treat and mortify this Parliament always, not only - I repeat - in this sitting, in this session and in relation to this bill; you have already set an example of this in the course of the adoption of some important measures. Then I'm telling you, you're still in time. Stop. We have offered you a chance: consider our amendments, show that you care not only about the confrontation with us, with oppositions, with minorities, but also about the interest of Italy, the country and its institutional and constitutional structure. So try to get to the point and try not only to make this measure yet another act of propaganda and commercials. An act that may bring you, in the immediate future, some consensus but you have experienced on your skin that these are consents that can change tacitally; you have them today and you probably won't have them tomorrow, but in the meantime to Italy you will leave a system seriously compromised. We will certainly not be accomplices to this. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u116	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Relations with Parliament, we are talking about a sensitive subject that is very close to the heart of Forza Italia, beyond what is the perception that we have in the country at the moment of the need to cut the costs of politics and therefore to make a Parliament efficient. We are right to say that because we were the ones who launched a constitutional reform in 2005 which provided for the reduction of parliamentarians but which also included a number of other interventions that did not make the reduction of parliamentarians unnecessary but optimized their role. I do not know why this majority did not think it would be possible to present a proposal of its own - we have heard in the other speeches - for constitutional reform which would make us understand what the objective was and what the aim was to achieve. In the debate in the Commission, we were told that this majority did not want to run into the same mistake as the previous majorities who, due to the presumption of making an overall constitutional reform, went against the referendum that actually rejected those constitutional reforms. Well, this position is also understandable, but it does not exempt the proposers of this constitutional reform from telling Parliament what its meaning is. We understand that we do not want to make an overall constitutional reform so that we do not run the risk of having a referendum that could have negative results, but we have the right to know where we have to go. In fact, to achieve only the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament and leave everything as it is will perhaps be an excuse for the consciences of the representatives of this majority towards their people, towards the people in general, to whom they may say that they have cut politics, but in fact it would create the conditions to bogged down and make the work of Members more difficult. Therefore, if we are not talking about the form of government, if we are not talking about what powers the House must have and what the Senate must have (we have made a proposal in our constitutional reform of 2005, probably not acceptable, but we can do another one), we are at least told if reducing the number of parliamentarians we must keep the perfect bicameralism, so make it even more along the legislative process, although we have realized that those who said that putting the question of trust was a limitation to the constitutional prerogatives of Members today make full use of it. This Government of Change, rather than making a spot reform (for which unfortunately we have no reason to say no, but we will say under what conditions we could say yes), should have given the idea of a change in the management of the public thing. I would therefore ask the Minister for relations with Parliament if he knows how many implementing decrees the Government must adopt. I say it's 900! You are taking the custom of approving draft laws referring to decrees of implementation that you do not know how, when and who will have to issue; moreover, of these 900 decrees of implementation 260 are yours, they are not the legacy of the old Government, they are decrees of implementation that you must issue. Up to now in the so-called decree on citizenship income and pensions at 100 are foreseen 40 decrees of implementation, another 40 for the decree-Law Genoa: when will you do them? You have also avoided your obligation to Parliament to report periodically on the state of adoption of the implementing decrees. You did so only in July, because you had to indicate what was the legacy of the previous Government; since July we have lost the traces of the President of the Count Council and its Government and we do not actually know the progress of the realization of the decrees. At a time like this, which sees our country narrow by an economic and labor crisis, you think that cutting the number of parliamentarians makes you more nice and more acceptable to public opinion and do not worry that we are in a technical recession that can become real, whose cost will fall on the families of Italians and Italians all. Don't worry about that, you think that the tip of citizenship income can be the solution to the problem. What seriousness does a government of any colour have when it questions international agreements signed on behalf of and on behalf of the Italian people? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] What seriousness and credibility can a Government have that questiones what others have signed up to in the full capacity of representing our country? What credibility, what seriousness and authority can a government have when it opposes Europe to put an end to the ungovernable situation in Venezuela, where we are being asked by hundreds of thousands of our fellow countrymen? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Do you just get Maduro's appreciation and recognition? I don't know if this is the best way to go. There's a lot of problems. And we have made a proposal and an advance that in the coming days my Group will present to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs a series of constitutional bills that can be accompanied by the measure on the reduction of the number of Members. We want to see on that occasion what the attitude of this Government and the majority will be. We hope that the League - with us was the protagonist of the constitutional reform of 2005 - will not betray and disregard those principles that we included in that constitutional reform: we want to divide the competences of the two chambers, because it is not enough just to reduce the number of parliamentarians; we also need to change their competences. We want to establish a new form of state; we want a presidential Republic; we cannot talk about constitutional reforms without putting in hand the reform of the judiciary or the criteria of priority in the exercise of criminal prosecution. We cannot talk about constitutional reforms and leave the Provinces in the pantanus in which they are located, when there are draft laws of Forza Italia and also of the League that ask to restore the old Provinces; and we cannot restore the old Provinces if it does not arise from a restructuring of our geography of the Regions. Our country cannot afford 1,000 MPs, but not even 20 Regions can be allowed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] When do we want to talk about this? All right, let's start with the reduction in the number of Members. Our Group will probably give an act of confidence, an opening of credit to this Government and its majority in order to avoid what a fellow member of the Democratic Party said, namely that outside this Assembly someone goes to flag the fact that the Government and its majority want reforms, that they want to chastise the chaste while there are those who want to maintain it. No, in fact we do not want to keep the caste: we want to make policy efficient and effective, but it is a conditional opening of credit. In the coming weeks, we will examine the attitude of the majority in the Commission and in this House on the constitutional reform proposals that we will also do, in a non-compressive way, in order to avoid the impact of a comprehensive reform. This is only the first reading: we will have to see each other again and, therefore, we will have time to assess what the real intentions of this Government and its majority will be. Colleagues, the risk - and you have unfortunately given us an advance, which is absolutely unacceptable to us - is that if the reform of the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament has to go hand in hand with the reform that is coming out of the House on the proposed referendum and the lowering of the quorum, we are obviously faced with a case of reduction not of the expenditure of the institutions and of politics, but of the institutional powers and prerogatives provided for in the Constitution in favour of Parliament. You want to replace the work of the Member of Parliament with the popular initiative, without quorum. If this is your path, probably the immaculate minister Di Maio, in one of your tweets will write: "We destroyed the institutions: done." We hope to make a mistake, but we will measure it over the next few weeks. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u118	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u119	Mr President, I would like to share some of the reflections that have been made and to take up the concern of those who believe that this could be a great electoral spot. The suspect is that the measure is being pulled out when the polls begin to descend and the difficulties of the 5 Star Movimento at the head of the government are evident. Here, then, are the issues of the past: the salaries of Members of Parliament and the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, without reasoning on what would be necessary today for a serious and organic institutional reform. This would be enough to define all this as an electoral ad, to wave in view of the European elections and then maybe to slide there. In fact, the silence of a part of the majority, of the League, which is usually present and which does not participate today and does not intervene, as if there were a tacit agreement, so it is allowed to make this scene, this show, in view of the European elections, and then to make everything fall into oblivion, perhaps saying that there are difficulties and other measures to be carried out. If this was just an election ad, we'd get over it. I'm afraid, though, that all this leads to playing with people's moods. We need to lead the country and not to indulge its drive. If we get out of here we're going to do an opinion poll, asking citizens if they want to reduce the number of Members, they would all say yes. The problem is that many would even say to eliminate them all, wondering if there really is a need. You have created a climate of distrust of the institutions. "Surfing" on the wave of discontent and playing on anxieties, worries, fears and worries of people is not easy and in the long run that wave risks to fall on you too. Instead, let us have a serious debate on how a system of representative democracy must be reformed which is obviously tired, because in modern times we have to try somehow to reconcile the effectiveness of the instruments and forms of government with representativeness. This is an issue that questions all European, Western and liberal democracies, who evidently face difficulties in the face of a changing world, invested in by globalisation that enters the home and divides life. They change the way we look at the future, with the digital revolution that democratized the information, putting in everyone's hands, with a simple tool, the possibility of accessing it. It is clear that this also leads to a request for greater participation. The need to reason also on a revolution of the way we look at representative democracy is therefore something felt, but I don't think we can deal with it in this way, playing on the fears and concerns of people, talking about reducing the number of parliamentarians and that's it. The combined arrangement that you are putting in place, with the reform of the instruments of direct democracy and the approved referendum - on the one hand - and the reduction in the number of Members - on the other - seems almost like an attack on representative democracy, in order to destroy it and replace it with a completely different system, in which perhaps it is only one, perhaps outside the institutions and Parliament, whether it is a Srl or a single person. We will oppose this design. We are available; we did so - and I conclude - when we presented a reform, which might not have been pleasing. It is nice to hear, even from people who voted against, that today there is a need for organic reform and it is pleased that, in a posthumous way, others recognize it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We had put that reform on the ground, an organic reform. Then let's start from there. There is willingness on our part to discuss those issues. On the contrary, we will be opposed if the instruments you put in place are only electoral ads, which play on the fears and concerns of citizens without solving problems. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u120	Senator Quagliarello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u121	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am the presenter of a proposal for a law on the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament, already in the last parliamentary term, and then repeated in this parliamentary term, which is basically a consistent copy of the reform presented by the Government, at least of its first version. What is the source of this initiative? I believe that it arises from a shared analysis, at least in the fundamental aspects, beyond tone, from the fact that we are experiencing a period of deep crisis of parliamentary representation. This is not the first time that this has happened in history. It happened in the past, at the beginning of the last century, when mass parties were born, extra-parliamentary parties (not because they were extremes, but because they were outside Parliament). It happened in the 1930s, when it was believed that authoritarian regimes could become normal. It happened with the drifting Assemblyists of the Second World War, and then also with the assembly of the Sixty-eight. Even then there was talk of a crisis of civilization, referring to the crisis of representation. I believe that the crisis we are experiencing today is deeper and even more significant, because of two structural elements. The first is that representation, representative democracy, needs a time of sedimentation; when a representative of the people is given the mandate, he is also given freedom of action and the fact is determined that a judgment on his work will be given after a certain period of time. This justifies the ban on mandatory mandates in representative democracies. Now this time of sedimentation has unfortunately failed. He failed for polls, failed for talk shows, and eventually failed for the network and social networks. Representative democracy also implies the need for self-content, both on the part of the representatives and on the part of the representatives. You can't think of being omniscient, you can't have the fatal presumption of talking about everything, because the law of numbers, which is the basis of democracy, doesn't fit everything. There are some subjects that need special skills. You see, Minister, in this House, until a few legislatures ago, there were those who talked about health and those who spoke about foreign policy; there were few colleagues who spoke about everything. Evidently we are at another time. Now, if all this is true and so we start from a basis of common awareness, yet we are facing a crossroads: do we want to reform this representative democracy in crisis or do we want to destroy it? My intention and intent of the law that I have presented is to reform representative democracy, because, despite everything and despite its imperfections, basically a better tool for governing complex societies is not there. It wasn't produced by history and it wasn't produced by the lucubrations about the future that some visionaries propose to us in some cases. So what is the point of cutting the number of parliamentarians for those who cultivate a reform perspective? To increase the efficiency of Parliament; to streamline the work and thus to allow that time of sedimentation that has failed; to improve the quality of representation in order to recover competence. I believe that these are the basic objectives. On the other hand, those who want to destroy representative democracy think of the reduction in the number of parliamentarians with contempt, even more than towards Parliament, towards the parliamentarians and the political class: even in the propaganda that I read on the net I see the fact that parliamentarians are today considered a kind of metastasis. It follows that the aim is to reduce the damage: not to try, to improve the quality of the damage, but to reduce the damage - the existence of the parliamentarians - to the point of probably tending to zero, because basically there is a culture of suspicion. A Member of Parliament is a person to be suspicious of. I am fully aware that these sentiments are also widespread in civil society, and they are not only present in this House. But I believe that these have been, even in the past, the premises for that fatal presumption of being better that authoritarian or even totalitarian regimes have been fed in history. Where, then, are we going to serve the difference between these two perspectives? In the discussion on some fundamental aspects, on which we hope the two approaches can approach: firstly, we will have to ensure that the criterion of territorial representativeness is also ensured by the cut of Members; secondly, that minorities are guaranteed; thirdly, that there is a positive interaction with other constitutional reforms. On the first two points it would be very important to talk about the cut of parliamentarians together with a proposal for an electoral law, because that is how we would understand whether minorities are guaranteed and whether territories are represented anyway. On the third aspect, what you are proposing to us at the moment is simply an interaction with the proposed referendum. You see, Minister, I have no negative prejudice on this issue, and I believe that even a proactive referendum can help to integrate in some way a representativeness that has more and more difficulty in asserting itself. For me it is therefore not a taboo and I must tell you that I also appreciated some changes that were made compared to the first text, which basically did not hold and made water from all sides. But there are still many aspects that we will have to deal with and that I hope can be examined in an "interactive" way, through a comparison and without barricades. First of all, a proactive referendum cannot even be thought of for spending laws, because obviously this would make our country, at a time when we are serving the crisis of public debt, very weak. You will be aware of the work of the Commission which I had the honour of chairing: it was the first aspect we highlighted. Secondly, it is necessary to limit the number of proposals, because without a limitation it would lead to the substantial repeal of Parliament. Finally, we need to think more about the relationship between the referenda initiative and the legislative initiative of the Chambers, because it is only sketched out in the proposal under discussion. We will be dealing with the debate on the referendum in the next period. And it is clear that it will also depend on the attitude on the text that is being discussed in this House today. I repeat to you, Minister, that as far as I am concerned we will be unprejudiced and we will be ready to cooperate, even if there is a desire for cooperation on your part, but we will be very hard if, on the other hand, this will serve to foment another page, a bit provincial, of anti-parliamentaryism. If all this falls to the level of a proposal of small provincial boulangers, without even the charm of a ride, in this case we will not give you discounts. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u122	Senator Margiotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u123	Mr President, the guiding principles of this bill are easily synthesized: propaganda and contempt for representative democracy. This is a bit of propaganda, because the 5 Stars fall into the polls in a dizzying way, they suffer and rediscover a demagogic proposal absolutely outside of a coherent institutional reform plan. Who says no to the reduction in the number of Members? We have tabled a legislative proposal in this respect, certainly not lucky in the referendum, but in Parliament we have taken it forward in all the readings necessary to reform the Constitution. The PD senators - I was one of those in the last parliamentary term - voted for a coherent reform of the abandonment of bicameralism, essentially endangering their ability to return to Parliament. We have the cards in order, we are not afraid that someone will accuse us of defending positions, having demonstrated with the facts that we did not put it in place. And you're gonna make it? Are you going to do four readings? Will you come to the end? No, dear friends, because every one of you knows in his heart that this majority will not have such a long time as to be able to carry out all the passages and in these days we are seeing it. Above all, however, your design is born by virtue of a very strong contempt for representative democracy, of which you give signals and daily proofs. To give examples, you have defended bicameralism and in this legislature you have transformed it into a de facto monocameralism: today the simplification decree is going to be approved with the vote of confidence, obviously touching nothing compared to the text that came out of the Senate, and so in turn. More than bicameralism! In fact, you have changed the way you legislate crawlingly. Not to mention the budget law: the memories in this House are still very fresh, the censorship of the Constitutional Court very clear. The fact is that you do not believe in representative democracy and I fear that you do not believe in democracy tout court. Mr Berlusconi said one day that it was enough to have only the leaders in this House and that it was useless to have so many Members. Well, I see that you have walked along that path, indeed you make it worse, because your guru, your founder and inspirer Grillo said that parliamentarians can be drawn instead of elected. Everything is absolutely consistent in your idea of democracy. You have even surreptitiously introduced the bond of mandate, the contract between the head and the chosen one; cast out people who do not vote like you imposing to vote; use parliamentarians as horns, let them get under the balcony where the head comes out and screams with joy for having abolished poverty and all of you down to applaud. One is worth one, but it seems to me that one is worth the other, because the important thing is that each one of them stands there and applauds. Keep making propaganda. The same reform of the vitality that you have announced, even the one with Italian processions and bottles of sparkling wine, is nothing more than the application of a law approved by us in 2012 to those elected before 2012. So, you've done quite a reform at no cost to your pockets, because of your status you haven't touched anything at all. The same proactive referendum - I agree with what Senator Quagliariello said - that we will return to talk about, must be framed in this design and, if it is framed, will find us absolutely opposed. But we'll talk about this and more later. Of one thing be assured: you want to destroy representative democracy: we will defend it and prevent it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u124	Senator Astorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u125	Mr President, the issue of reducing the number of Members has always been considered within a broader reform project. Since the Bozzi reform, since the reform project approved in the last legislature by our Government, and rejected by the popular vote of 4 December 2016, the reduction in the number of parliamentarians has always been linked to the need to improve the functioning of the two Chambers. Thinking of changing the Constitution by stopping exclusively at numbers, it seems to me to respond more to a punitive logic towards the political class, in the wake of the most vicious anti-political, and above all to the need to recover electoral consensus from the 5 Stars, than to the desire to overcome the elements that do not allow, in full respect of the representation of the voters and the representativeness of Parliament, the two branches of Parliament to function more efficiently and more rationally. Personally, I consider it absurd to sacrifice our Constitution and our democratic institutions on the altar of the yet important electoral consensus of the European elections. In fact, this seems to me to be the end of this reform, even if it is not too elusive. The draft law under consideration, as it is designed, worsens and greatly worsens the problem concerning the link between the elected and the elector, between the elected and the territory of reference. On the other hand, the fall in the number of parliamentarians considerably reduces the ratio between the number of voters and elected: there is a decrease of more than 35%, however with important problems in smaller regions such as Molise or with fewer inhabitants such as Sardinia. However, beyond that, we all know that to restore that link of representation, that trust between the elected and the electorate and the territory of reference, whose loss is the real protagonist of the breakdown between politics and citizens, are the electoral laws and techniques of transformation of votes into seats. This reform plan also lacks this aspect. Election laws that do not allow, either through preferences or through small single-name colleges (as was the Mattarellum), to directly choose their representatives are the real fall between elected and elected. Leaving unchanged the distinction concerning the age of passive and active electorate in the House as in the Senate is the other great vulnus of this bill. In fact, the problem of the functioning of the Chambers resulting from the discrepancy of the active electorate - eighteen years in the Chamber and twenty-five years in the Senate - is not overcome. This reform is like Fr Abbondio: she lacks courage, she is fearless; she does not address the problem of the functioning of bicameralism; she does not address the problem of the identical functions of the two Chambers; she does not address the problem of the representation of the Chambers on a different active electorate. This reform would make sense and would certainly be approved by all if it could address the real issue of the problem that exists in Italy: the problem of two Chambers that, since 1948, for well-defined historical reasons, do both the same thing; a useless ornament to the functioning of democracy that is overcome with the subterfuge of the armored trust in one Chamber and with the text unchanged to the other House. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u126	Senator Misiani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u127	Mr President, I think that no group in this House questions the need for a reform of Parliament's structure. It is from 15 April 1983, when the Commission, chaired by Mr Bozzi, was set up, which followed, after a parliamentary term, bicameral committees, initiatives and referendums aimed at revising the Constitution and, in this context, a reform of Parliament. There is no doubt that there are many open issues and that Parliament is called upon to debate them in order to reform itself. First of all, there is the perfect bicameral arrangement, which objectively represents an anomaly of the Italian Parliament, which - unique in the European Union between the 28 Community countries - provides for absolute equality between the House and the Senate. In 15 Community countries there is a single-cameral system and in the other 12 a two-cameral system, but with a Chamber linked to the Government by a trust relationship and the other Chamber generally representative of territorial autonomy. We should discuss a different balance between the Government and Parliament in the legislative initiative. The statistics of the 17th legislature are eloquent, from this point of view: 379 laws have been adopted, but in 74 percent of the cases they are measures of government initiative; moreover, in 83 cases they are laws of conversion of decrees-laws, which - as is well known - are now an example of alternate monocameralism, because they are really discussed in a House and, then, the bill of conversion is effectively ratified in the other branch of Parliament. We should discuss a different balance between the direction and control role of the House and the Senate and that of legislative production, in a country suffering from an excess of legislative production and a weak role of Parliament in the direction and control of the Commission's work. We should discuss a different link between the work of this House and the work of the Commission, which is indeed a matter of regulation, but it is undoubtedly constitutionally important because, as is well known, the Constitution recognises the role and function of the parliamentary committees. Colleagues, all these issues should be reflected in a wide-ranging, in-depth and meditated reflection on the role of Parliament in our democracy, as well as on the future of Italian democracy, at a time when so many - too many, if I may be allowed - question the value of representative democracy and call for participatory democracy to prevail over representative institutions. I believe that participatory institutions in our democracy must be strengthened, but in the parliamentary assemblies we see initiatives that go in a direction that we consider unbalanced from the point of view of the relationship of representative institutions with the demands that are directly expressed by the electoral body. We should discuss in depth the overall structure of the Republican institutions, within which we should include a reform of Parliament. What is this majority doing, namely the 5 Star Movement, the League and the Government supported by them? This majority is humiliating Parliament. We saw this in the discussion of the budget law for 2019, when, for the first time, the competent standing committee, first in the Senate and then in the House, was not allowed to vote even one amendment. The budget law was passed in a distorted version compared to the version originally presented, with blows of confidence first to the Senate and then to the House of Deputies. You are humiliating Parliament outside the parliamentary classrooms, with an anti-parliamentary rhetoric that humiliates the function of the representatives of the citizens and that is unbearable in a democracy such as we want to defend and protect. You are carrying out a reform to bits and bites, which overall wants to empty Parliament's role. This is in fact the point of the proposal on the proposed referendum, which has been dropped, but in fact an integral part of a draft which provides for the mere reduction in the number of Members. Mr President, this is not the case. This is not the path to an organic and meditated reform of Parliament. This is not the way to give Italian democracy a Parliament that is placed in a position to carry out fully the functions that the Constitution itself assigns to it. Let us discuss together how we can seriously change Parliament, not with proposals which seem to be detached from each other, but with an organic plan, which deals with the problems I referred to earlier, those which have been unresolved since 1983. Let us discuss together how to change Parliament in order to improve our democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u128	She's registered to speak Senator Minuto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Forza Italia is certainly not concerned about the reduction in the number of Members. The reform that you are proposing today is not new to us; on the contrary, I would like to remind you that this is the eighth attempt at reform. We were among the first to propose a constitutional change in this respect. Parliament, thanks to our contribution between 2003 and 2005, had approved the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, a reform which, following the referendum promoted by the oppositions, did not follow. However, in order to maintain a balance between the powers of the State, one should intervene by balancing the prerogatives of the legislative power with those of the Executive, of the local autonomy, already strongly compromised by the Delrio law. On the other hand, the constitutional reform that this majority is submitting to our ex authority and degrades the role of Parliament, depriving it of its prerogatives and independence. The constitutional design you want us to adopt is not based on the defence of the democratic principles on which our Charter is based. The sharp reduction in the number of Members of Parliament does not seem to take account of the principle of democratic representation which is the foundation and legitimacy of our mandate. Ladies and gentlemen, I often hear you calling in this House and in the country - I believe more for media intent - for the defence of democracy, for the protection of citizens' rights. I have heard you, even in the past, speak against the caste, against privileges. Well, I don't represent here and I've never represented any caste, I've never had any privilege. I would like to add that I was elected at the age of nineteen with the preferred vote, when the name and surname were written and, therefore, when we had the opportunity to speak directly to our voters. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I would like to remind you that when the last constitutional reform proposed by the then President of the Council of Ministers, Matteo Renzi, was submitted to the popular vote, the result of the referendum was disastrous for his promoter. The citizens believe in the role of the institutions and, even if they sometimes dispute who represents them at that time, they are not prepared to give up any prerogative proper to the democratic state. We have a government that has paralysed the adoption of very important measures: I am thinking of the infrastructure, the TAV, the drills, the TAP, which concerns my Puglia, which was then forced to return. However, in this case, you have decided to ignore that result; yet, it has been sanctioned by the Italians through an instrument of direct democracy, the same that you are determined to distort with another senseless reform. I believe that today you are proposing a diversion, something that can distract the Italians from the various problems of the country that the Government is not able to deal with. You want Parliament to become a target of popular discontent and not the place where to carry out requests from all sectors of our country in a serious and constructive way. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] (16.47 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u130	Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u131	Mr President, I shall use the minutes at my disposal to explain why, in my view, we are faced with a measure which is both insufficient and dangerous. First of all, I will make the following point of method: I do not think it is right to deal with this parliamentary act in itself, without thinking about the context in which it is located and the overall design of which it is part. If we evaluate it in itself, we could express the same comment as many, who, in their speeches, said that the mountain gave birth to a mouse. I would say that even the size of a mouse is too big for an initiative like this, so maybe we should talk about a fly. I do not think we can limit ourselves to a judgment on this act. On the other hand, I think that we must reflect on the things that have already been done or announced by this majority, as regards the relationship between the Executive and Parliament and, within Parliament, between the majority and the parliamentary minority and, within the state system, between the various powers of the State. The majority that today proposes such a reduction in the number of parliamentarians is the same as that which made this House, the Senate, one of the most humiliating moments in its republican history during the debate on the budget law. We will not allow anyone to put a veil and make them forget that, for the first time in the history of the Republic, the budget law was passed without a branch of Parliament being able to examine it and discuss it. It was approved with a very serious violation of the prerogatives of the Senate in general and especially of the parliamentary minority. The majority that today proposes reducing the number of Members of Parliament is the one that has done many times, in public debate, things that have never before been seen, namely a deliberate attack and a very aggressive discreditation of the counterpowers that exist in our Constitution to limit the risk of abuse by the majority and that constitute essential elements of the constitutional balance that should be dear to all of us. Let us not forget what has been said by the representatives of this majority of the Bank of Italy, the technicians of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the General Accounting of the State, the magistrates and anyone who dared to point out that winning the elections means acquiring not the right to do what you want, but the right-duty to govern in compliance with the Constitution. We then saw this proposal for constitutional reform coming to Parliament and another proposal to the House on the proposed referendum, which presents chilling and disturbing traits, as it represents an attempt not to improve the way in which the relationship between Parliament and the people works, but to empty Parliament, in the name of a false homage to popular sovereignty and a false direct democracy. Then there are the measures announced: the one on quorum in the repealing referendum, the one on overcoming the prohibition of mandatory mandate. Nothing - for example - has been proposed on a fundamental element such as the guarantee of democracy within the parties. Certainly it cannot propose a constitutional reform implementing Article 49 a combination of forces - especially one - which has dictatorial internal management. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , which in every act denies democracy not only in the relationship with Parliament but also in the way it lives internally. Then it is clear that the proposal that is being made to us today and which we are debating is not an act that can be judged in itself, because it is part of a clear plan for the demolition of representative democracy in this country through - in the first place - the emptying and humiliation of Parliament. We say this to the House today and we will tell the Italian citizens and citizens all the time because we think it is a not insignificant fact. And - let me say this - even that mixture of arrogance, gratification and sufficiency with which the measure has been brought to Parliament and not presented to the House is an expression of illiberal arrogance. As far as the minimum behavior is concerned, you deny that it is your intention to respect the balance between the powers of the State and this is not an elusive fact. Then there is, of course, what has been said by others, the search for a diversion: do you need a weapon of mass distraction to raise the polls? Yes, it may be, above all - I believe - to hide the failures in the economic field, the most serious thing that is happening today in Italy. We are a country in recession, where tens of thousands of jobs are going up in smoke, and this is mainly because of you. Today the European Commission said that in 2019 the Italian economy will grow by 0.2 percent. When you went to do the clowning on the balcony, you were talking about 1.5; when you did the coup d'état of the budget law you said 1%; after a month and a half we are at 0.2, five times less than you estimated, and that means that every forecast of yours is written on the water, that you will open a hole in the state accounts, that you will have to resort to corrective maneuvering so as not to betray the commitments made with the European Union. You need to hide all this. Then go meet the yellow vests instead of meeting the Pernigotti workers. Shame! Shame! Ten times shame! [[Applause from the PD Group]] I conclude by saying that at the moment we do not know - we have not had the pleasure of hearing your voice in this House, and I think we will soon have it - what reception will be reserved for our amendments. But we challenge you with those amendments, because the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament and also the proposed referendum have been part of an attempt at reform which is something that we, even today, are convinced of, that we have tabled, that has not passed the examination of the referendum, but that has represented a high point of reformism in this country. Therefore, on the subject itself of the number of Members and also of the proposed referendum, we have no foreclosure, but let us say no to the commercials and the jokes. Our amendments are intended to try to see if you are willing to move from electoral clownhood, from propaganda mockery to serious reform with minimal intervention. Do you know how many articles of the Constitution touch our amendments? They only touch seven. I have seen that a majority member said that we want to make a great cauldron. Seven articles, colleague: read, read the amendments before you speak, study, do well. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Wolf]] It's good. Although it does not lead to immediate results, the study improves the ability to improve, increases the growth potential in the future. Seven articles only: nothing but great cauldron! We cannot overlook the fact, if we intervene on the number of senators, that we are the only country in the European Union where a branch of the directly elected Parliament is not elected by universal suffrage. I repeat: the only country in the European Union where there is a direct election branch of Parliament that is not elected by universal suffrage, because people aged 18 to 25 years are excluded from voting rights. What prevents you from saying that 18-year-olds can vote for the Senate election? [[Applause from the PD Group]] What prevents the functions of the two rooms from being differentiated? Do you know how many countries in the world there are with equal and perfect bicameralism? There are only three: Italy, Switzerland and the United States. I must not explain to you why Switzerland and the United States cannot be an example for us to take. Therefore, this differentiation must be made and I also think that we should consider how the audience that elects the President of the Republic should be changed if we change the number of senators and Members. These are three serious proposals. We are waiting for an answer. If you say no to us, we cannot be co-responsible and complicit in something so low that a reform is not even distant relative. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u132	Senator Cerno is registered to speak, but I do not see him here. It is therefore intended that he has renounced it. [[Comments from the PD Group]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If there isn't... [[Protests from the PD Group]] You don't even ask for a replacement? At least the courtesy in these cases to say that another senator intervenes in his place.. He's enlisted to speak Senator Moles. You have the right to do so. If he arrives in the meantime, Senator Cerno can also speak. FARAONE (PD). How good it is, President! If she wasn't there! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can say that again.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u133	Mr President, I was very indecisive whether or not to speak in this general debate, because most of the things my colleagues have said are more than acceptable and shared. I could renew the fact that from the beginning our movement has worked to renew our system and has done so with respect for democratic institutions. Respect is a word that I have not used at random, because only those who have no respect for the institutions can think of reducing the issue of representative democracy to a pure economic calculation or the number of heads to be dropped. Forza Italia was the first political formation to talk about reform of the institutions and reduction of the number of elected, but it did so at least in a framework of overall reform of the institutional structure. How can one think that it is enough to cut off some voters to improve our democratic system? This is yet another proof that some of you do not accept the idea that there is a Parliament of decent people, free elected by free elections, not by some computer society algorithm. If we want and want to turn our Parliament into a sacrificial victim of popular discontent, that is, if you want to sacrifice it on the altar of an electoral consensus that perhaps - as some have said - you see going down - and at the same time you quarrel and perhaps the voters are not aware of it - the question is another: when will you realize that everything you are doing is a damage, and not for individual Members, but for the institutions, for the respect that is due to the institutions? Do you realize that if the number of elected fell, according to the laws that govern every representative democracy, you should at the same time proportionally reduce the powers of the Government, the number of Ministers and Undersecretaries, review the judiciary and so on? Then I wonder who benefits from all this. What is the real objective of all these measures and the spot measure under consideration? This contempt for politics and politicians is actually born from afar, from governments not born from the indications of the citizens (Monti, Letta and Renzi), who have made it almost useless for the citizens to vote. You of the Rousseau platform, however, are only the executioners, the firing squad of others before you, who like you used to shout at the defense of the violated Constitution and who then today as they then say they want to defend it, but since they are in power they have wanted to destroy it. At that moment I did not see the purple people in the square; I did not see roundabouts. How can we not agree with the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament? Relaxation of the number of parliamentarians yes, demolition of representative democracy no. And this is still going on - I repeat - for the sake of respect for the parliamentary institution, but this has not happened again. It was not - for example - the occasion of the debate on the budget law. Parliament was called Parliament because there was talk, there was debate, without quota of time; opinions were confronted to improve something at the service of the whole country. This did not happen. I would not like this to be the shortcut, once again simpler, to circumvent the credibility of the institutions. Is that another facade measure? Better a good referendum on the net? I don't know. Is Democracy Cost-Based? Of course, but if it is only a matter of costs, then I suggest another measure to the Government and to all my fellow senators: we make a bill where we say that the Senate is transformed into the House of Lords and the title of senator is acquired through bank transfer and is transmitted in inheritance, after payment of inheritance tax compared to the amount paid for the purchase. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Is it just a matter of costs? So let's cut Members' salaries, but let's do it - for example - on the basis of the average of the previous five years, as from tax returns, compared to when you are elected. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Please tell us what the idea of general constitutional reform is, because then it means that this is not yet yet another spot measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u134	Senator Cerno is enlisted to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u135	She's enlisted to speak Senator Sudan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u136	Mr President, I must say that in these two days I am quite embarrassed that both we in the Democratic Party and our colleagues in Forza Italia continue to speak in the absolute silence of the majority parties. Honestly, I am also sorry that Senator Calderoli did not make the report on this text and not so much because there is much to explain, because the text is actually quite simple and understandable because it is a sharp reduction in the number of Members. Perhaps you considered it inappropriate to explain the text to us. However, if we go backwards, since the current Government has installed itself, just look at the various passages that have been there to understand that we now have the proof, as they say. There are more clues: there is Fraccaro, Minister of Direct Democracy and not Minister for Reform; there is Grillo, who from June 2018 says that parliamentarians can be elected by lot; there is Casaleggio, who says that Parliament can be overcome. These three clues are enough to prove and to say that the measure under consideration has a very precise plan, namely to overcome direct democracy. Each of us - as has already been said - each party has made its own referendary battles, made its own proposals for constitutional reform, but it has done so with an open face, not putting on a mask and hiding behind the idea of institutional structure. I think this government needs to take off its mask and tell the Italian people what their idea is. It is right that at that point this Assembly should also discuss the merits of individual legislative proposals, because it is unthinkable that two different constitutional reform texts - one in the Senate and one in the House - should be dealt with, instead, with organic reform. It was felt that the parent Patuanelli an hour ago stated that the PD only uses excuses because it does not want to cut the costs of politics. As we are seeing, we are talking only about commercial laws: it is a classic commercial law that serves for the European elections, because we know so much that we are at first reading and we do not know if there will be a second reading and if this government will last. As Mr Faraone said earlier, the Movimento 5 Stars and the League do nothing but exchange blackmail on what they have to do to increase their percentages in the polls. The European elections will be held in a few months' time and you will be playing in the election campaign for the outcome of this first reading. Before I heard Mr Quagliarello explain why he presented this bill, but honestly that left me a little bit of a basis. He told the House that democratic parliamentary crises occurred in the years of our Republic and he also explained that once in the Senate there were no "allologists" and that not everyone could talk about everything, but there were those who talked about health or who spoke about foreign policy, while today everyone talks about everything. This would prove why Parliament is seen as a metastasis and should therefore be reduced. On the other hand, I believe in politics and parties, and I believe that the right thing is instead to reform and select the ruling class and not to cut Parliament, because it is considered a cost, as the Movimento 5 Stars wants to believe. You have created the ancient caste over the past few years, and you have reduced this House to nothing. I remember that, at the beginning of the legislature, we passed a law in three days and Senator Calderoli, addressing the Democratic Party, pointed out that there was no need for a referendum and that constitutional reform was not necessary, since we had passed a law in three days. I wonder, then, what is the problem that leads us to reduce only the number of Members, seeing it only as a cost. In particular, a person with a great deal of experience such as Senator Calderoli would not have to lend himself to such an attitude towards Parliament, which he has represented for many years. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u137	She's registered to speak Senator Toffanin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, representative of the Government, I join in the choir of my fellow Members who have expressed their disappointment at the failure to explain the report by the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, not because we lack the elements to deepen the text presented, which we have been talking about for a whole day now, but because - and I am very sorry to say so - I think it is yet another disrespectful one in Parliament. If we consider that the measure has an overwhelming and exclusive impact on the very life of this House and that of the House of Deputies, the least you could have done would have been to explain your point of view and the rationale of this decision. On the other hand, there is none of this, either by the rapporteur or by the majority that does not intervene, but so much. Once again, we will express our views, with the feeling that the majority is not interested in a confrontation with minorities. It has no interest in having this House play its part. As I enter into the substance of this measure, which I remind everyone is a constitutional reform, I cannot help noting immediately its approximation and superficiality. A reform of our Constitution, a text that I once again invite you, as I did yesterday, to re-read every now and then, cannot be made to bits and bites for an exclusive electoral need. From all the speeches that have been made so far, I think it is clear that the problem is not the reduction in the number of Members, to whom virtually all of us have been in favour. The problem is the unpacking of a measure, which should be much more complex and which should take into account a whole range of rules that make this reduction effective. At the basis of this pseudo-reform, there are no solid foundations, there is no in-depth study of our social and political fabric, there is no real listening to the territory, there is only the will, once again, to make cheap propaganda through great titles. The hashtag "TagliAltrone" is, as you have renamed it, yet another social network marketing operation, without its content being as effective. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] A constitutional reform that concerns democracy and political representativeness, in order to define itself as such, must take into account all forms of the Government, from national to regional, from the Provinces, which are still in a state of absolute confusion after the wretched Delrio reform, to the municipalities, now the last royal bulwark of democracy. I repeat: we are in favour of reducing Members of Parliament. I say this once again, because Forza Italia will not allow its interventions to be exploited in the electoral campaign now imminent. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We will not allow you to accuse us of wanting to protect the privileges of what you consider a caste, of which you are now a full member. And we will not do that because the truth is that you have not invented anything: the reduction of parliamentarians was present in the constitutional reform of the third Berlusconi Government, only that in that case it was not pure demagogy, but it was included in a much more complex reform that intended to overcome the perfect bicameralism, modify the form of government, strengthen the powers of the Regions and also reduce the numbers of parliamentarians. Without going into the matter of the correctness of that reform, which I remember having been rejected by a popular referendum (and we respect the will of the voters), it is clear, however, that it was a whole other apparatus. Now, I do not want to be here to praise that reform and to belittle it only for a purely bell-tower spirit, but I want to stress that this attempt to reform is nothing more than the fruit of this Government of compromise, which we have now become accustomed to. A measure, yet again, that seeks a downward mediation in order not to make the two majority parties quarrel. But the Constitution is a serious thing and democracy is a serious thing; it is not possible to consider it as a land of conquest on which to place flags. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u139	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u140	Mr President, you see, I also have little time to say that I am a little disheartened. I am saddened because, like many of you, I have read the acts concerning the work of the constituent Assembly and I must say that I would have been happy to belong to that world, where there was a confrontation of ideas. Parliament is becoming something in which I do not recognize myself: it is no longer a confrontation of ideas. You don't talk, you don't say a word, we don't know what your intention is. I was in love with the great debates of the so-called first Republic of this country in high school, Minister. When Latin was abolished in the middle school (I was just at the university), Stefano Riccio - I still remember the name of the deputy - spoke four hours in Latin; it was a completely different logic. Parliament has been reduced to something where I do not recognize myself: tight times, when we can talk less and less. The President correctly, given the number of speeches, tells me that I have five minutes, which is the very denial of our way of being. What's the point? What's the point, when I talk about citizenship income, having five minutes? There is a need to discuss and assess why some sanctions leave the speech open forever, in a very different way from what happens even with minors in criminal proceedings. What is the logic of this reform? Beware, many of you will remember and President Calderoli remembers very well that in here, three years ago, there was the Democratic Party Group who claimed that we were against the people, because the people wanted the abolition of the Senate. Many who have voted with us and who have fought the electoral battle in defence of the Constitution were convinced of this, but it is a concern that I have never had: the Italian people know what is the reason for the choice that the Constituents made and there are pages that explain why the senators must be 315. On the other hand, we are not discussing it here and we are debating anything else. My question is, are you sure about the outcome of the referendum? You are certainly trying - and you will probably succeed - not to go to the referendum, but it would be ideal to go to the referendum for you who propose direct democracy and understand the will of the Italian people. I was convinced then that the Italian people were against it and I am convinced today that it will be against reducing the number of senators to 200. By not changing the number of bicamerals, in fact, by not changing the Committees of Inquiry and by not changing the relations between Government and Parliament, the number of 200 is low: it means emptying this House of Parliament by making it a hetero-direct body, in the sense that it will be a "vote" in favour of the measures and ideas of the Government in turn. I do not say of the current government, because when we discuss constitutional matters we must have the ability to look ahead and, in order to evaluate the goodness of a reform, think that their Group and their party are party to government. What would bring about this reform in terms of consistency with the powers within the Constitutional Charter? How should we go about establishing prosecutions against the President of the Republic? You should make an overall assessment. I am still undecided about the possibility of correcting, possibly after the adoption of this bill, certain aspects of the constitutional system, so that there is freedom in our country so that even those who are minorities can be at the same time advocates of a confrontation and debate with the majority on the choices of social and economic policy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u141	I greet on behalf of the Assembly a delegation of students from the Faculty of Law of the University of Macerata, who are attending our work. I greet future colleagues, I don't know if senators, but certainly lawyers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u142	She is registered to speak Senator Messina Assuntela. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is good, first of all, to reiterate the value of a debate on constitutional reforms, which has been a long-standing need and which is becoming ever more pressing and improbable. In fact, this is an issue that involves everyone and which above all makes us responsible. It is our own Constitution, on the other hand, that imposes a broad sharing around the idea of a revisit of its significance and we all feel here the importance of taking part in this process. It is precisely from the point of view of contributing to the work of reform that we demand to discuss the proposals put forward on the subject, proposals which, despite us, have a very limited scope in relation to the wider demands for reform of our constitutional order. If it really is Parliament's intention to make the institutions more efficient and to make them even more interpreters of the needs and demands of the citizens, if we really want to encourage rationalization and improvement of the legislative function, then this proposal cannot be enough. The risk is that this proposal follows the narration of an empty Parliament, of a caste to be fought, that rides the idea that representative democracy can even be seen as an obstacle to be removed. In short, there is a risk that there will be an attitude aimed at opposing civil society and the ruling class, citizens and institutions, direct democracy and representative democracy. A way of interpreting politics that also distances itself from the full understanding of the responsibilities of all of us, of those who are called to represent the community and whose commitment should be directed above all to reconstruct, to give new meaning and vigour to the foundations of a spirit that must be the basis of the national community and that looks exclusively to the good and the future of our country. And this is even more worrying, because it is happening in a moment of serious crisis and of great fragility for our country and for our democracy, also for the idea that our democracy we are giving. The concept of democracy and the value and centrality of this place, the function of representation cannot be traced back to merely numerical questions. We must remember that only thanks to places like this are possible the encounter and the comparison between the many and different social and political sensibilities of our country. We must live up to the role we play and the trust that millions of Italians have placed in us: in all of us and in each of us, each in his own way. It is said that by reducing the number of Members, Parliament's costs can be reduced and rationalised. But what space has been given to consideration and that the costs of politics, as they are often defined, are actually the real costs of democracy? To represent, to mediate, to give voice to the large and small communities of civil society, to protect territorial and political minorities, to involve citizens in participation in shared projects, to reach and to approach the outskirts: all this is a value that a democratic country has the duty to support. Another argument in support of this reform builds on the alleged benefits that would be derived from the reduction of Members and senators in terms of efficiency of the legislative function. If this is an effect that you think can be certain, then we would like to hear and discuss the reasons behind it. If instead, as we believe, this automatism may not have positive effects, then we are the first to want to discuss with you a different constitutional reform, which really achieves these goals. But our contribution can only be bound to a broader reasoning, which gives meaning to what we intend to do. Changing the composition of the elective Assemblies achieves an accomplished sense only if this idea is framed in a broader context of reform of the Constitution, which takes all these aspects into account. So let's talk about reducing the number of MPs and senators, but let's discuss the reform of bicameralism or rationalization of the form of government. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We intervene on parliamentary regulations, on the different ways of differentiating the two chambers, on a new balance in the relationship between government and Parliament, on the spaces of real dialogue with the regions and local authorities. We talk about functions and organization and not just numbers. We work together, then, but to restore centrality to Parliament, to make it work better and faster, because, unlike what one might think, in a society deprived of the places and guarantees of representative democracy, decisions are the prerogative of few and instrument of revenge against many. We are here to discuss with you, but obviously filling in meaning our contribution and the value we want to continue to give to the idea of democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u144	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vattuone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u145	Mr President, most of my colleagues have already spoken, even in a comprehensive way, and they have well represented the idea and position of the Democratic Party in relation to the measure under discussion. I too would like to leave a few comments briefly in a few minutes, because constitutional reforms - as many of my colleagues have already said - have been on the agenda in Italy for over twenty-five years, even if they have never been completed. So we know that the problem is there and we share it: we too have tried. But, with the exception of the revision of Title V of the second part of the Constitution, all other attempts have failed. We therefore know that there is this need, because there is no doubt that there is a need for institutional reform; there is no doubt that there is a problem of the efficiency of Parliament, as well as of the stability of governments; there is also no doubt that there is an increase - it has been said several times - of the need for citizens to participate in the lives of our society and our institutions. But the need for citizens' participation and the need to build a political system that better interprets and represents the needs of citizens cannot start from a lie and an answer that is only a facade. The point to be introduced is how we deal with it, how we approach a reform of a complex system such as that of our democracy. The question cannot be asked only in numerical terms of greater or less efficiency, or in terms of cost reduction, hiding an elementary principle, that is, the issue - which has also been mentioned several times - of the representativeness of Members. This issue is directly concerned with the quality of our democratic system and, consequently, with the principle of popular sovereignty. So already focusing on the content of this measure, in the face of the characteristics and requirements of our order, emerges the lack, the senselessness and the arbitrariness. It is an institutional reform which exclusively concerns the reduction of the number of senators and Members without redefining in any way the tasks and functions of Parliament; without leaving the perfect bicameralism; without updating the division of competence with the Regions (very important), which does not touch at all on the issue of federalism, which should also be of interest to someone in this House. A reform that does not want to improve our democracy, but only aims to send out a message - yet again for the truth - demagogic, populist and only in electoral terms. For example, as some Members have rightly pointed out earlier in this House: why two hundred senators and four hundred Members? What is the criterion for achieving this figure? What vision is there in this determination? What impact does it have on the reduction of the work of the Commissions and Parliament on legislative procedures, on the representativeness of small territories and small municipalities as well? Has this been dealt with even in a small part? We have said that and we have also tried to do so in the past: we are not against the reduction in the number of Members. But reducing parliamentarians without an overall reform of the Constitution is a simple spot, to use the term that many of my colleagues have used and which makes good. It does not serve democracy and it does not solve any problems. And the idea of changing our democratic system by reducing only a few seats in Parliament is truly repulsive. Last legislature, the Democratic Party proposed a reform, the guiding principle of which was the overcoming of equal bicameralism. We believe that it is necessary to start from this, i.e. from the need to overcome an arrangement in which Chamber and Senate, elected with different criteria, perform the same functions. We have tabled amendments to this measure. Let's discuss this. We want to make our contribution. We think that this is the perspective that allows for greater efficiency and quality of the work of the Chambers. I would ask for permission to hand over the remainder of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u146	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u147	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galliani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u148	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament is the legislative body of the State and therefore the most sacred place of a rule of law. In Parliamentary classrooms, laws are born that affect the lives of citizens. The Parliamentary Assembly is the highest essence of democracy. Forza Italia has always been in favour of reducing the number of members of Parliament, but precisely because it is deeply aware of the fundamental importance of the balance of powers within the rule of law, it has always conceived it in a framework of overall reform of the state structure. If we decide to intervene on the legislative power, the father of democratic representation, we must do so by intervening, equally and at the same time, also on the executive power. Mr Fraccaro, I look at you because it is to you that my speech is addressed. Any attempt to reform Parliament, which was also subject to a referendum, had foreseen a reduction in the number of Members. The last, on the initiative of the Renzi Government, saw a Senate with different functions from the Chamber and a different balance of powers. The previous reform, in 2005, also submitted to referendums with negative results, was that of the Berlusconi Government. However, it was a very far-reaching reform, which was drawn up after a long and thorough parliamentary discussion. A reform measure created through a precise constitutional architecture, which supported a wide change, truly articulated and comprehensive, within which the substantial reduction in the number of parliamentarians found a complete logic. I repeat: we agree with the reduction in the number of Members, provided that this is done within a more comprehensive design, in which the burdens and counterweights that are the basis of democratic rules are redefined. Now - instead - a very original but also very risky path is being taken. On the one hand, in the Senate, we approve a constitutional bill that reduces the number of senators from 315 to 200 and of deputies from 630 to 400. In the other branch of Parliament there is a constitutional proposal in which the proposed referendum is introduced, which would have validity, where approved by the Italians, even without a definite quorum. In other words, an active minority could prevail over the majority of Italians, and that - in my opinion - is the denial of democracy. It is clear, therefore, that there is a lack of constitutional engineering which holds together the two reforms proposed by the current majority. Furthermore, there are serious dangers to our democracy, because the rules concerning the other powers of the State remain unchanged, in fact creating an obvious and risky imbalance. It was not by chance that, in writing our beautiful Constitution, the constituent Fathers held in extreme account that none of the powers could prevail over the other. Therefore, while we are in favour of reducing the number of Members, we have strong doubts that the reforms taken without taking into account the fact that a democratic state must have as its absolute priority the freedom of its citizens, who have rights, first of all that of being represented. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u149	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u150	Mr President, in these days when we began to discuss this measure, I have often asked myself a question, from which I will start: what is it for, if not to indulge in a mood that has been urged and public opinion, and to explain that it has been corrected to all the problems of Italy, hitting Parliament and reducing the number of Members? In fact, I think one thing must be said: this measure does not improve anything, in the absence of a framework and a context, as many colleagues have already said. Maybe it intervenes a little on the decrease of the costs, but certainly it will not change the functioning of the Parliament; the representation of the territories of this country will be reduced, because a sharp and straight cut is made, that half, without a reasoning that tends to guarantee the representation of the territories anyway. You leave the perfect bicameralism, so you will not shorten the times for the approval of the laws. I mean, it doesn't get better, not even for the citizens. What's his purpose, then? I believe that the measure is the result of an idea that is inspired by a model of democracy different from mine, in which we believed and believe, but more similar to the Hungarian model than the Italian liberal one. This is the idea that those who win can do what they want and Parliament, from this point of view, becomes one of the many obstacles: no one should disturb the maneuver, we could say, nor stand between those who won the elections or made a government contract and the people. Parliament is therefore becoming a harp, a problem: it must be emptied and pointed out as a useless thing, so it is possible to halve Members, not let them work and vote on a budget law without even discussing it. This is the idea that comes to mind from time to time. Then I see that when the guarantee agencies or agencies that are supposed to represent the whole country say something that goes against the government's thinking, they are attacked directly, along with the people who express those ideas, but never discuss them; You never compare on ideas, then, but you attack those who express them. Here, you have this idea of democracy. The entities that should represent all or occupy them, as you are doing now with Consob, or try to empty them, as you have done with the INPS or with anyone giving data other than those that suits you. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I think that such an idea of democracy is dangerous and different from mine. Putting there, on the one hand, the reduction of Members of Parliament and, on the other hand, the proposed referendum is the idea that Parliament and representative democracy should be overcome and deleted. As we do not agree, we will continue to fight against a concept whereby - I repeat - those who say that something is not right or give data different from those that do good to this Government and to this majority are attacked. There is no confrontation or will to react by putting in place other data: people, journalists, magistrates and anyone who is hindered are attacked. It is an idea of the wrong and dangerous democracy. We want institutional reform that strengthens democracy, not that it invents a new one. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u151	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly not difficult for a representative of the right to speak on this issue which fascinates my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars and this majority. You try to recover those political failures that you have unfortunately demonstrated in economic policy, you want to make forget the recession and you want to make forget what you have not been able to do for our country by using pure and simple demagogy. You are doing this and you have done it with the citizenship income that, I remind myself and yourself with mathematics that is not an opinion but is objective, is exactly comparable to the 80 euros of the friends of the Democratic Party: five billion euros for five million people means a thousand euros per person per year, which divided for twelve months means an average of 80 euros per month. So you didn't even have that much imagination, at least in numbers, to differentiate you from the previous European elections. You simply copied, at least in numerical terms, the electoral tip that someone before you had already thought of giving thanks to the government position it occupied. So demagogy: demagogy with the income of citizenship, demagogy even greater with the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. Who's against it? The caste, this caste that does not work, that takes advantage: let's reduce it, let's reduce it further; let's remove representativeness to the territories, maybe even the autonomous ones, so people will be happy. On the other hand, we are talking about those who like to go around France with the new prophet of demagogy, who from India and South America today prefer to visit the yellow vests, that is those who, just to remind us and our fellow citizens, are burning a bridge a week. Let's remember who are the yellow vests, that is those with which you, friends of the Movimento 5 Stars, are flirting right now. On the part of those who follow this demagogy, it is no wonder that we want to proceed with demagogy. Well, why do I bravely address this issue and challenge you? Because the right side of the issue of efficiency and cost reduction has dealt with it before you and it is the parliamentary acts that prove it. But, you see, words aren't enough. The reduction of parliamentarians can make sense, indeed it would make sense, at a time when it was included in an organic plan, at a time when it is combined with federalism, presidentialism, the reform of the electoral law and perhaps, dear colleagues, at a time when there is no indistinguishable percentage cut between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic, because one thing is to reduce the House by 200 parliamentarians and one thing is to bring the Senate to 200 senators when already today with 300 senators there are obvious problems of running the Commissions. A Senate of 200 representatives means serious problems in the functioning of the Commissions. So, once again, it is shown that you do not pursue the substance but - alas - only demagogy. You need to cover the economic inefficiencies and go to the squares to say you attacked the caste. Minister Fraccaro, my fellow citizen of Trentino, said yesterday that more efficiency will be given to the institutions. But do you really believe that your bill is made to give efficiency? I don't want to teach anyone that efficiency is a balance between costs and results. What results do you want if you do not build anything around the cut in the number of parliamentarians, which is a purely and exclusively demagogic measure? If that were all I could be satisfied with; or rather, I would not be satisfied but perhaps I would be less concerned. But unfortunately, even for my profession as an economist and a businessman, I am used to considering the most complete scenario, to look at what lies behind a measure that I may not share and which is critical, as I have done so far. Well, unfortunately, I have seen and I see yet another piece of a system that wants to be demolished: you want to demolish democratic institutions, representative democracy, to replace it perhaps with democracy, or rather - as a colleague said in the previous hours - with the "democracture" of the web. You want to replace regularly elected MPs on the territory with parliamentarians who could perhaps be drawn by lot (as the Genoese comedian taught us, one is worth one); basically think of a democracy that is no longer such, but that wants to become a simple guide to a software that wants to determine the destinies of our homeland. This is the most worrying message emerging from these projects. Have you ever wondered, ladies and gentlemen, what it means to put together vitality, to finance parties, to cut allowances, to reduce the number of Members of Parliament? It means destroying representative democracy, offending the constituent Fathers: have at least the courage to say that the constituent Fathers were corrupt, they were politicians who did not care about the fate of the State. Perhaps you do not realize that those young people to whom you speak so much, those young people to whom you are conscious, and at times bulging, of your closeness to their needs, those young people who may have an autonomous job, who are plumbers, who have a shop or who are also surgeons or lawyers, are those young people who if at thirty years of age should decide to lend their time to politics and to come to these classrooms to the House and the Senate, thanks to the system of vitality as you have conceived them will no longer be able to do so, because they will come here perhaps at thirty years, they will no longer have the opportunity to do their job and at forty-five years of age, when they have to return to work they will no longer know what to do. 5.50 p.m. (continued DE BERTOLDI). That is what demagogy means, so let there be reductions in the number of parliamentarians, let there be a differentiation of vitality, but when a doctor gives you a cure, he does not tell you not to eat more carbohydrates and therefore to stay on a diet, but to replace them or perhaps to mitigate them and therefore to create a balanced diet. You are simply feeding the people populist, demagogic, ineffective measures, which will unfortunately reverberate our young people and our fellow citizens. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, what can be said by looking at the functioning of Parliament in the last year? There is consistency: I have always recognised the economic coherence of happy degrowth, but I also recognise the coherence of the delegitimization of the institutions. On the other hand, we saw that last autumn we MEPs spent months in the budget committee and then we could not do anything. We saw the text of the draft budget law arrive one minute before bringing it to the House. That means delegitimizing Parliament. This means reading a complete process where you aim to destroy representative democracy. This is seen in all the acts that are also contemporary, for example on Venezuela you did not want Parliament to express itself and perhaps you made this country look bad, which is the only one left in Europe, together with Cyprus and Greece, without a clear and precise line. This has been seen on the TAV: you do not want Parliament to speak. Even on these issues, referendums are not good either. Basically, you want to disrupt a system by feeding the people demagogic measures and part of a highly worrying project. Therefore, I note these serious problems (because it is not merely a matter of criticality), I, who, even on the substance I would be in favour of reducing parliamentarians, protesting and not lending myself to this ignoble activity that you are carrying out, will abstain from the vote and leave the Chamber when this measure will be voted behind the Italians and young people of our country. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u153	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u154	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal before us is now being repeated by various legislation. There have been a number of other constitutional reforms, which are broader and more comprehensive than what we are discussing today, which have led to a reduction in the number of Members of Parliament. Among the first proposals voted and approved by Parliament is certainly the constitutional reform promoted by the Berlusconi Government. Today we are facing a bill that derives from the one presented on the initiative of Forza Italia, so much so that the first bill was presented in this legislature by the senator of Forza Italia Gaetano Quagliariello. This led the other Groups to present their texts. The last, in chronological order - I want to emphasize - is that of Movimento 5 Stars. Therefore, the 5 Stars certainly cannot enter into an initiative in which they arrived after all, for the last time, as clearly demonstrated by the chronology of submission of proposals. You have come last to propose what we have been proposing for years; to propose what we have already approved with the Berlusconi Government, in a broader context of reform, and which unfortunately a referendum badly set has not confirmed. Nevertheless, I am truly convinced that there are other priorities at the moment. To represent the needs of the people who ask for a more dynamic country, with an economy that grows more, that has more opportunities for work: this is important. An Italy that does not ask for alms, that does not want the decrease in which has brought us a policy that says no to everything. Citizens want more. The country awaits the reduction of taxes, the real flat tax, the investments in infrastructure, the real politics, the great works, the health care, the great reform for the social, the policies in support of the schools and the Forces of the order. They want first of all the credibility of Italy in international fora. They want policies that do not curb the infrastructure of our country and make our economy less fragile and more attractive for those who want to invest. There is a clear decline in investment in Italy, accompanied by a distrust in our public bonds. Who do you think wants to invest in a country where justice has undefined times and not certain? These are the priorities. Do entrepreneurs have to be brave captains? There is a need for extraordinary works, the result of the most innovative technological research, such as the TAV to connect Italy to the rest of Europe and to the international corridors, not to go back and become a third world country, even if in the language of politics via the web someone has defined such works as a hole. Returning to what is being discussed here today, I wonder: a smaller number of senators will lead to greater selection, and therefore only the best will be elected? Let's hope so. Let us not forget the linguistic minorities that are protected by our Constitution in Article 6: they must always be represented. That is also what the international treaties and the Statutes of the self-government say, and I hope that this will also be the case after this reform. Let us not forget the contact with one's own people, the dem feel with one's own territory, which is not to be underestimated. This reform marks only the first step towards clarification, due and improcrastinable, against any demagogic proposal. We hope that Parliament, after this reform, will be able to work on a new Rules of Procedure; a Rules of Procedure of the Senate that rebalances the powers between Parliament and the Government. A rebalancing that sees our parliamentary Republic do not succumb, as today, to the purely demagogic proposals. A reform that wins the proposal and confrontation in Parliament, with respect to meeting the needs of the bully in turn. Respect for democracy, debate and healthy and constructive confrontation, which first of all gives value to the needs of the citizens, whom we are called to represent here, remains crucial to us. I conclude by saying that today I have heard of linguistic minorities: an added value for our nation. I hope that they will not be forgotten - and I thank the Minister - and that there will always be the proper consideration of minorities, which I represent here in the Senate today. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u155	Senator Iori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u156	Mr President, unfortunately, the logic is always the same: here too we have propaganda, demagogy, anti-politics, anti-caste and everything that has already been pointed out in the previous speeches. Can a constitutional reform be reduced to a simple cut in the number of Members? Let it be clear that we are not against the cut in a preliminary way, but we believe that this proposal is only a scissor, that it does not address the complexity and the criticalities that result from it in terms of democracy. Parliament must represent the different political interests, objectives and ideals that exist in the population, but I understand that in direct democracy, in clicking, this is not a big problem. However, for us stubborn defenders of parliamentary democracy, it is an inescapable issue. If in a certain sense it is understandable that we want to send a strong signal of discontinuity, with a policy that you have represented as ill, I believe that the change of policy and even more institutional changes should still be discussed within an overall plan, because simplification does not respond to the complexity of the time in which we live and even less befits and combines with democracy. Before changing the number of Members, the question of representation should first be raised. Parliament must best represent the different interests, political objectives and views that coexist in our citizenship and must be able to do so properly, coherently and consciously. Those who rightly insist that under-represented groups, such as women, should enter Parliament, cannot at the same time demand that the number of Members of Parliament be halved without raising the question of who will have access to a halved Parliament. In the text you have decided to further expand the scissors between elected and inhabitants: how do you think it is possible to carry out the real exercise of the representative function? This proposal of yours risks creating serious problems of representation of the smallest regions, such as the Valle d'Aosta, Umbria, Molise, Basilicata and Sardinia, which would run the serious risk of not having elected any candidate, especially the Senate, where, taking into account the small number of representatives, we could have elected only in the most populous regions, with the highest number of inhabitants. Another organizational consideration: the work of the parliamentarians is also based on collegial work in the Commissions, on the division of labour, on specialization; and the Commissions institutionalize precisely this need. We cannot, therefore, want to halve the number of parliamentarians and think that the quality of the laws is not affected. This would also require real constitutional reform, with the overcoming of our perfect bicameralism. The operation of the current system has been slow and cumbersome, in comparison especially with the other systems, where the second Chambers generally deal with territorial issues. Here, continue to show your little attention to the parliamentary dialectic, but it is an attitude that is not surprising, because it is a profound anti-parliamentaryism that animates the whole measure. We have tabled amendments to ensure that, by reducing the number of Members, the principles of representative democracy are not called into question. You only need to take a preliminary view of this measure in order to campaign and not to improve the system. Now, if Dossetti, the constituent Father and my fellow citizen, said that the Constitution was done in a spirit of renewal, we can say that renewal is certainly not the spirit of your proposal. Well, so we will not stand, and not because we are prejudiced against it, but because the form in which it is presented represents institutional and democratic backwardness and certainly not progress. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u157	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u158	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have followed the debate with some astonishment in certain passages, because of the heterogeneity of the arguments put forward until the majority intervened. I would have listened with great pleasure to Mr Calderoli's arguments as rapporteur, because I appreciate him and know his capacity for argument, but above all because I would have hoped to understand what the ratio of the measure is. I'm sure you won't miss a chance during the replica. I then followed the directions he had given us and went to read me the report he had sent us back. When I read that, in the course of the debates which have developed over the last twenty years around the revision of the constitutional structure of the State, the need to reduce the number of parliamentarians has been called for on several sides, let me say that I find it somewhat reductive. But then, if I continue and read with the double objective of increasing the efficiency and productivity of the Chambers and, at the same time, of rationalising public spending, it seems to me that there is a little overdoing here. If I may make a suggestion, I think that, in order to improve the functioning of the Chambers, we should begin to apply the Rules of Procedure of the Senate that we adopted on 20 December of the last parliamentary term and that we still have no place in place. Already a first result could be achieved, because implementing principles such as programming I think it would be something that would improve the quality of life all of us. For ten years I have been unworthy of this Senate and I must say that I have never worked as badly as I have since the beginning of this legislature, in which programming was absolutely not there. [[Applause from the PD Group]] On the other hand, the second statement on the rationalization of public expenditure, which I consider to be somewhat reductive and I limit myself to what other Members have already said by talking about the difference between the costs of politics and the costs of democracy, which I consider to be absolutely fundamental. All this means, however, not being opposed to the reduction in the number of Members, but wanting to understand what this reform is and within which project it is inscribed. It changes a lot, from my point of view; in fact, I would say that almost everything changes. It changes whether you have a model of state in mind or try to please the public. In the 2005 reform - which I did not share - and in the 2016 reform - which I shared - there was a state reform. It seems to me that there is simply an attempt to uncritically and in a non-neutral way against the symbols of the institutions, because there are European elections on the horizon. And, as the situation in Italy worsens, we are in recession - can we use this word? - because of the government's wrong policies and the economic indicators are worrying, then we are dealing with the reduction of parliamentarians. I don't see a project, but I see so much confusion. Even worse, I see it, if I put it in relation, raising my eyes, to the intervention being made in the Chamber of Deputies on the proposed referendum: the difficulty of implementing this referendum is really great (I happened to deal with it as president of the municipal council in Turin) and, above all, a proactive referendum ends up limiting the powers of the assembly body, in this case of Parliament. I see the combined arrangement of these two rules with concern, especially because, at a time as difficult as the present, I think that these behaviors end up significantly undermining the very essence of democracy. Norberto Bobbio wrote in the book "The Future of Democracy," a nice pamphlet published by Einaudi, that democracy is not the perfect system, but the best system, because it allows to determine who makes decisions on the basis of those rules. Then, personally, I see in the attack on Parliament an attack - allow me - on the same democracy. But why does this happen? Since the beginning of the great crisis, objectively, the number of citizens who feel that they have lost control of their destiny has increased. There is a strong sense of insecurity that starts from the economic dimension and extends to the social vision of the person. The answer cannot be the populist trivialization of the "reduce the number of parliamentarians." I tell you, however, that behind this project I see or think I can see something, but if so I would like us to deal with the topic, hearing also the voices of the majority, to avoid browsing the daisy or, better still, the artichoke. What I see, understand and intuit is that behind this there are the theorizations of Michel Houellebecq, philosopher quoted by various exponents of the Movimento 5 Stars, who supports the end of democracy as we have known it so far: I don't want to be represented. I want to be consulted, constantly, on every subject. This is a wish for direct democracy that clashes with the principles of representative democracy and parliamentary democracy is a subspecies of representative democracy. Then, if the comparison is on these themes, we accept openly the comparison on these themes, but we do not mess with reality. It is even believed that it is undemocratic to claim that there is an alleged incompetence of citizens. No, what is proposed is the theory of omniscience. Now there is the technology that allows you to consult people accurately and punctually. I don't have time to do this, but by general culture I refer you, as a reading, to Tom Nichols, the knowledge and its enemies. The age of incompetence and the risks to democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There would be a lot to discuss in this Parliament. Is this the future you foreshadow? The false promise you make to the voters to give them back control over everything? I think this is extremely difficult. This is not my reformist vision of the country's future. I know it's not easy, I think a very nice book by Federico Caffè comes to mind, "The solitude of the reformist", whose reading I recommend, also this by general culture, but I want to decline those concepts in my way. That is why I close by saying what is for us the profound difference between us and you in the face of a problem: the populists are looking for a culprit, today they are the parliamentarians, tomorrow they will be the magistrates or the journalists; the reformists are looking for a solution and we are proudly reformists. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u159	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u160	Mr President, I shall vote after the decisions of my group's assembly and say so only to say that my speech will have a purely political character, but it is only natural, because the nature of this measure is certainly political. In the past parliamentary term, I tabled a draft law which included reducing the number of Members to the same extent as the proposal we are debating and to which I am therefore not prejudiced. But in political terms much has changed in our country with the election result of March 4: the political framework has radically changed and Italy has moved from a democratic perspective of modernization of its institutions to the announcement of a radical upheaval of parliamentary democracy. The reduction in the number of Members, presented in times of democratic reformism, has become a different thing since 4 March, a preparatory move for a democratically misunderstanding of the institutional future. Future misunderstanding about the darkness of the constitutional model towards which Movimento 5 Stars and League want to bring Italy and why nobody knows how their initiatives, both those already under consideration in Parliament and those contained in the Government contract, compete to achieve that direct democracy that, for what little is known, is very dangerous for Italy. The question is this: where League and Movimento 5 Stars want to take our country? We do not know anything about their basic constitutional strategies, we can only try to connect positions which, although so messy, are all aimed at disrupting the principles of parliamentary democracy. There is not only the treatment given to the Senate last December at the time of the budget law and which we can define as subversive and which has been referred to many of the interventions that preceded me, but there is also the bond of mandate provided for by the government contract and there are the statements of Casaleggio, Grillo and Di Maio on the overcoming of democracy and the futility of Parliament. Then there are the magistrates and there is the Bank of Italy which, according to Salvini and Di Maio, is denied the right to speak because they were not elected. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u161	Excuse me a moment, Senator Zanda. Colleagues, I appeal above all to you who occupy the right side of the hemicycle, I invite you to stop the buzz, because it is really difficult to follow the intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u162	Please, Senator Zanda, continue. ZANDA (PD). I am not able to speak out loud, so thank you very much, Mr President, if you will settle the buzz in this House. Finally, there is "Gaia" (Gaia), a video of 2008 by Gianroberto Casaleggio, which predicts that after a long and devastating war we will have a new world order dominated by the net, without more States neither parties nor ideologies nor religions, where every man to exist must be in the net, because outside the net no person will exist. How can you not take these ads seriously? They are all consistent with each other and come from personalities who today govern Italy. How can one ignore the fact that none of these statements have ever been denied? Just as one cannot fail to see that the distance from the 5 Stars of the anti-Semitic evocation of the Protocols of the Savi of Zion by one of their senators has been so slight that it has gone unnoticed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] With the new policy, everything becomes possible: from the abolition of Parliament to the overcoming of democracy, to the Protocols of the Savi of Zion, everything suggests that 5 Stars and League have chosen to treat Parliament and representative democracy as any vegetable that can be stripped and weakened leaf after leaf. It is for this reason that, until Parliament and the country are made clear how and when the majority and government intend to achieve direct democracy, we must use the utmost rigour not only on the draft reduction in the number of parliamentarians, but also on any other misunderstanding proposal to amend our representative institutions. I want to make this clear: in its essence, the choice of constituents in favour of parliamentary democracy is one of the supreme principles that the Constitutional Court has declared unchangeable. It is not acceptable for such a profound change to take place piece by piece, with measures skillfully distributed a little to the House and a little to the Senate. Anti-Europeanism, friendship with authoritarian leadership and migration policy are some of the ingredients of the drift of fear and hatred with which 5 Stars and League are trying to change, by inciting it, the nature of Italians. It is against this background of hammering propaganda, made of disvalues and inculturation, that the attacks on Parliament, on the most sensitive areas of public administration, on the free press and on the judiciary are inserted. Speaking of the judiciary, it is no wonder that Matteo Salvini rejects the trial. Everyone remembers when the magistrate who sent him the warranty notice said: "I was elected and he was not." It is enough to look at the movie "Gaia" to understand that direct democracy does not include intermediate bodies between those who command and a people destined only to obey; a regime where the primacy of politics stands in a new formula, made of populism, sovereignism and authoritarianism that use the Network to live together in a pact of power, for the sole purpose of governing together. I would like to address the two majority leaders, Senators Patuanelli and Romeo, whom I do not see in this House but to whom I hope this speech will be referred. How can we accept individual pieces of reform without at least a broad debate in Parliament on the final objective, on the overall reform? League and 5 Stars have numbers; they use them to promote a great parliamentary debate that compares parliamentary democracy with their direct democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If that is the challenge, face it with transparency, without subterfuge. Have the courage to open a serious discussion here in the Senate about your ideas: we will all benefit and finally the Italians will understand what we are talking about. We all know that our institutions must be reformed and that parliamentary democracy itself must be renewed. But not like this. Before we abandon that centrality of Parliament that have taught us with much sacrifice Moro and Berlinguer, La Malfa and Saragat, De Gasperi and Togliatti, Einaudi and Nenni, we would need something more convincing, in democratic terms, than the general allusion to direct democracy of Di Maio and Salvini. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I'm closing with one final consideration. For a few days Italy has been officially in recession and it is certain that our problems will not be solved by the announcement of lawyer Conte and Mr Di Maio of a beautiful 2019 and an economic boom as in the fifties and sixties. But Count, Salvini and Di Maio, with their vain speech and their tweets, have highlighted a great issue, namely the relationship between economy and politics. They made it clear that Toninelli's statements about Lyon and Di Battista about Maduro are closely linked to the difficulties of our economy. There is a red thread that binds politics and economy. When a conflicting government that plans dangerous reforms overlaps a serious economic crisis, then trouble becomes very, very serious. And it is precisely because of the strong link between politics and the economy that the prospect of the introduction in Italy of an unconstitutional direct democracy weighs heavily, as well as on our future and our international isolation, also on our economic destiny and on the decisions of investors and markets. It is for all these reasons that I consider the reduction in the number of Members not a measure of rationalization of parliamentary work, but a piece of the work of demolition of our representative democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u163	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bressa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u164	Mr President, we are faced with the first act of constitutional reform of the Lega-5 Star majority, a reform that we know is necessary. In fact, in question, it is not the se, but how to do it. When we talk about constitutional reform, we talk about the highest confrontation between politics and law. Professor Leopoldo Elia, President emeritus of the Constitutional Court, said that to understand the content and effects of legal institutions it is necessary to reconstruct historical processes and analyze the characteristics of the political and cultural context. He quoted a famous opinion from the judge of the Supreme Court of the United States of America, Felix Frankfurter, about the law, which must be based on something much deeper and more plausible than personal preference, having to be based on fundamental foundations rooted in history. If you are not able to do this, you can aspire to do a constitutional craftsmanship. But if the fundamental premises rooted in history lie in the fact that only our Constitution and that of Belgium of 1831 contemplate a perfect bicameralism, with an equivalent position of the two Chambers, what is the general orientation, the vision, the institutional culture that supports this reform of your bicameralism? It can't be seen. It's not here. We do not go beyond the slogan of the 'halving the number of parliamentarians' in the name of reducing the costs of politics. The intent is shared and also practicable. In our proposals for reform there has been and is the foundation rooted in history: overcoming the perfect bicameralism. For you, this foundation rooted in history is the reduction of the costs of politics, however such reduction can never question the costs for democracy. Two equal rooms, which do the same things, one half of the other. Have you thought about the level and quality of work of a House of 200 people called to intense legislative activity, direction and political control, as well as the current? 12 Commissions, 16 members for each, with a majority of 9 members, just to give an example. Max Weber said that you can hate or love the parliamentary institution, but you cannot abolish it, you can only make it politically impotent. And that's what you start to do, in a thinner and more effective way than to open a can of tuna. But it's dangerous, very dangerous. A danger that must be pointed out with clarity and determination. This time is a prisoner of an elementary conception of democracy, as omnipotence of the majority and its leader, as an expression of popular will; a sort of feudalization of politics based on the exchange between fidelity and protection. In this logic, Parliament is an obstacle and then it is worth making it harmless. This is your first step, honoring - in your own way - the popular demand to reduce costs and privileges, making you protagonists of an unprecedented institutional hordaline. But what does all this lead to? To a debasement of Parliament and representative democracy. Aldo Moro said: I do not believe that politics is pure convenience, it has coefficients of convenience but it is not pure convenience; politics is also ideal. You are the professionals of convenience, but it is passing away and, when it has passed, it should support the ideal. But what is the ideal that holds you together? The answer is very difficult, it is probably a misunderstanding of the sense of power, without idealism, without responsibility. For these reasons, I will vote against this pseudo-reform of yours. A no that goes beyond the merit of the proposal, to denounce your plan to delegitimize representative and parliamentary democracy. Mine is a political no to this unconfessed and unconfessible design. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u165	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u166	Mr President, as you can see, I have here on the desk a small book that I have made the habit of always carrying in the bag, for having it within reach. It is the Constitution of the Italian Republic, in a format that allows me to consult it every time, to always draw inspiration from it. I began to do so in the legislature in which the path of constitutional reform of Berlusconi began (Senator Calderoli was always rapporteur), because he allowed me to have a guide and a precise point of reference. Of course, I continued to do so throughout the last parliamentary term, in which we had a very complicated debate and a referendary battle on the Renzi-Boschi reform (or Boschi-Renzi). To be honest, I also believed in the sincerity of the referendary battle that the Cinquestellas had led into the classrooms of this Senate and the House. We have even brought together a number of appeals to the TAR on referenda questions. You will say to me: "And yet, after a long time, you should be used to it: you were very naive." I had sincerely believed in it, convinced that defending the Constitution and carrying on a battle against that reform would then mean, when it came to becoming the relative majority party, dealing with those that, we had repeated over all these years, were the real issues with regard to constitutional reforms and the question of giving back strength to parliamentary and representative democracy. As my colleague, Senator Errani, said this morning, it is clear - and none of us can fail to see it or keep it - what is the difficulty and crisis of representative democracy, the crisis of the relationship between citizens and institutions and between representatives and representatives, and what are the problems in making parliamentary democracy live with force. Instead, we are faced with a very different scenario, made of this proposal and declarations and fed in reality, once again, by another disease, which distinguishes - alas - the history of this country, that of anti-parliamentaryism. Everything - the defence of the Constitution, the referendary battle and the fight against that constitutional reform - has turned into a very strong anti-parliamentaryism, which now assumes the connotations of the ancient caste. In the history of our country, anti-parliamentaryism has always assumed strong elements - and I am thinking of 1919 - that you well know what they produced; it is a karst river, that emerges, then it goes back to depth, when there are antibodies, and then it re-emerges again and this is the historical phase in which it is re-emergent forcefully. Well, I turn to what has become the relative majority party: this form of anti-parliamentaryism has become the fundamental feature of any issue that is being addressed. Having begun in the House the other part of the reform, on the referendums, was not an instrument to further strengthen representative democracy, in an attempt to overcome the gap between citizens and institutions and between representatives and representatives. No: that too has become the rhetoric of direct democracy, opposed in fact to Parliament. That is all we can see. And this - I tell Minister Fraccaro - is very dangerous. The various forms of participatory and direct democracy (I began to deal with it when I was 18, 19) must be an instrument to strengthen representative democracy, parliamentary democracy. And then, since we said together in this House that in the reform of the Renzi Government there were heavy elements of supremacy of the Executive on the Legislative, the first intervention to be made, the first question to be addressed and to be taken up - this urgent yes, very urgent as we have seen in these first months of government - was the urgent decree, the issue of trusts, to make sure that the balance of powers emerges with force, giving strength to the Legislative and confirming the Executive for the part it has to play. In these first few months exactly the opposite has happened. How do you respond? On the one hand, on the institutions of the referendum; on the other hand, in the Senate, presented, naked and raw, with reasons that are more related to the so-called costs and therefore to the savings, the reduction of parliamentarians (and then we will clarify where it is anchored) without addressing the real question of efficiency. You cannot present the reduction of Members as a way of simplifying procedures. You know better than I that we must face - this would be important for the country - the way in which we legislate, the disordered way in which laws are produced, the fact that laws are produced and then the implementing decrees are not made, or the fact that after a month that has been promulgated a norm, perhaps with confidence, other norms are produced that contradict the first. When you did the consultations to try to form the Government, one of the issues you had asked - I say it because we were invited by you, we said what we thought and you thought - it was related to how you intervene by legalizing through the system of monothematic codes, an orderly way to produce less laws and to make laws that were more ordained. This would respond to the need to give efficiency to the State and the administrative machinery. No, you don't. Once again, you have been taken by normality, begun in this country in the early 1980s, for which the only mantra, obsessively repeated, was that of constitutional reforms: first the bicameral commission Bozzi, then we had the bicameral D'Alema and then all the various attempts, because in the end that mantra was only a way by which the ruling classes gave themselves an alibi, saying that it was not their fault if they did not produce important results for the country, it was not their fault if people had problems, but it was necessary to intervene on the Constitution. Eventually, their responsibilities on the Constitution were discharged. You got caught up in that mantra, too. Of course, correctly apply Article 138, because you do not do a broad reform but a much more selective thing, but in the end, from the point of view of cultural inspiration, you are also welcome to the normality of others, those who have always thought they could download everything on the Constitution. We are getting started but the contours of where we are going are not clear, because you are making us discuss the reduction of Members of Parliament and then - and you know it, Minister - the Council of Ministers has on the agenda, for 15 February, the reform of enhanced autonomy, of which Parliament can at most see, can say yes or can say no, but it cannot intervene, and it is an issue that we have put to you because it would really be a change of scenery in the state's structure. That's the point. These are the real problems to be faced in order to strengthen parliamentary democracy. How do we strengthen it? By getting us to vote on the budget law at the last second? Is this the strengthening of parliamentary democracy? How do you plan to do that? Are you simply thinking of giving back voice and strength to the citizens, of rebuilding a relationship between representatives and representatives only with the rhetoric of direct democracy? It cannot be done, except by giving back energy to parliamentary democracy, as Senator Zanda said well and as I mean at the close. The inspiration of the structure chosen by the constituent Fathers and Mothers was that of parliamentary democracy. That's the point. On the other hand, in practice and in your declarations, we are moving towards a path that will be to deny representative democracy at its root, and for this you are once again assuming responsibility. I would add another consideration: everyone has tried to caress the beast, you have been masters to caress the beast of anti-parliamentaryism, but then this has twisted against those who have done so and, unfortunately, it has resolved with a strong weakening of parliamentary institutions and democracy. This is not a way to create the possibility of a future for this country. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u167	Senator Ferrari is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u168	Mr President, if I were to say that the Democratic Party is strongly in favour of reducing the number of Members of Parliament, as has been widely demonstrated in its history in serious attempts to promote exactly this objective; if I said that the demagogic way in which you are doing this act, or achieving this objective, does not belong to us; if I said that we do not agree with the demolition of representative parliamentary democracy; if I said that there is no trace of differentiation between the powers of the two Chambers and that, therefore, in our opinion - and we say so rightly, on the basis of what this country has discussed and studied for seventy years - there is no improvement that leads the Italian institutions to support the development of this country; if I say all these things I would make an exhaustive list of considerations that certainly mark the position of the Democratic Party, which is not a no prejudice, indeed I would say that it is almost a yes prejudice, but that it is certainly a no to the way in which you are pursuing this objective. However, since by nature I am cautious and there is no such thing as constitutional reform that induces and requires all parties to dialogue, I try to do so in these few minutes. We have stumbled on several occasions, on all our different political careers, in the provocative Machiavellian expression that the end justifies the means and I think that in this case it is appropriate: what is the end and what is the means, I think it is the real theme of the parliamentary passage that we are living. Just as it really is the question of whether we are talking about a reduction or a number, and here too the difference is not irrelevant (we wait for the presidency to be changed, so we allow colleagues to at least try to listen to a request for dialogue). 18.41 (Ferrari follow). I was saying that it is not relevant to distinguish the meaning of reduction and number. If we look today, it seems that the aim is to reduce the number of Members. It is clear, in fact, how the majority, together with the Government, behaved in relation to this Parliament in recent months: a very discrediting attitude, a lack of respect and a lack of consideration. The statements of some leaders of the movements that support this Government, in particular those of Davide Casalegio, are obvious, obvious, flashing, public, and the other reform that is taking shape in the other Branch of Parliament, the one that reviews the functioning of the referendums. Therefore, by putting all these aspects together, we understand that the reduction is an end for you; the aim is exactly to say that, since Parliament needs less and less in this country, so much so as to reduce it; there is no relevance in the fact that it has such a large number of parliamentarians. If you do this for a reason of sobriety of politics and institutions, let us say that there are several other ways to guarantee sobriety, to show, to set an example on sobriety: it is in the way we speak by holding important institutional positions; it is in the way we dress; in the way we relate to other countries, not only of our European Union but of the world. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is in the way in which the image of Italy is defended on occasions like that of Venezuela. All this is sobriety and it does not seem to me - starting from the way you use the Italian language - that you take full responsibility for this sobriety: it is therefore clear that it will not simply be the reduction of Members who can allow you to achieve the objective. If we look at "yesterday," the number - not the reduction - was the means, because yesterday, when this Parliament was founded, the objective was to represent, unite, consolidate the unity of the country; it was constituted and thought to manage here in social conflicts. It has been designed to learn democracy and this is an extremely important expression, to which I believe we must address our reflections. With this measure you thought - at best - to try to interpret the changes in our society, the digital world that is invading our lives, our customs, our uses in such a meaningful way. So you're saying that adjusting the functioning of the changing institutions in the world is crucial, if not vital. We agree with that. The problem is that there has been no intervention of yours that has linked - in this House of the Italian Parliament - the world that is changing and therefore attention to this perspective, with respect to the history that we have. But does it seem possible that we are about to adopt such an important constitutional reform without any of you trying to link the history and vision of a new world, to link our Parliament and the new world? Is that an act of respect for this House? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Learning democracy means having memory of previous parliamentary work, because if there is no memory here, it is clear that there is none in the country. And this is the place where President Napolitano, accepting - extraordinarily - the renewal of his position as President of the Republic, said that it was essential that the parliamentary institutions and the relationship between Parliament and Government should be reformed, because without that radical change it is not that he would not have agreed to be President, but Italy would have remained back in the world, would not have adapted its institutions to a primary function that the same institutions have, that is, allow the country to progress. We must remember what happened and you cannot fail to consider two years of work in the last legislature. I also address Mr Fraccaro, with whom I have shared several years in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the House. We have discussed this with democratic attention and respect for the matter that we have been dealing with that cannot be left out in this case too, Minister; it cannot be left out of your intentions. We have discussed memory; we have discussed introducing a function, to the new Senate, which was called an assessment of the impact of public policies, which should be one of your first objectives, for what you say, namely to assess exactly what happens in the lives of citizens and on territories after Parliament takes a decision. Nothing, no trace of correlation between your design and that reasoning, which was a reasoning even before a center-left choice. There is no trace of the memory of the autonomy and I address my colleagues of the League: is it ever possible that in one country, in which it is more normal to resort to one another rather than to compete towards the same objectives (and I say this as a Lombard) there is no trace of the discussion that for seventy years, with great cultural peaks, this country has made on the relationship between local institutions and Parliament? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Is it possible that there is not a voice of yours that says how this vision also includes a design of distribution and diffusion of power and responsibility and therefore of strengthening autonomy? All this is not there and I believe that it is a great limit of your work, as a great limit lies in the attitude that I have already mentioned, of colleagues who are facing this as a bureaucratic passage, as if there were no obligation to cover some of the issues that I have introduced and all the debate that took place over two years of work, in the last parliamentary term, in which all the parliamentary groups participated anyway. Not to mention the previous editions, through bicameral commissions or other, which have faced and tried to review and update the democratic culture of the country; they have done so in one direction or another, but have tried. Colleagues, you have the attitude of those who are here by chance, or who simply live this as a bureaucratic formality, or who do not have the tension that leads each of us to study endlessly, because the respect that we owe to this Assembly is the respect that we owe to our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The respect we owe to this House is respect for our history. But do you remember what they said when they were in exile, Sturzo and Salvemini, just before our Constitution was written? They spoke of the centrality of the development of the human person, of the universalist system of our rights and of how slowly the institutional power should spread, so that the written rights in the first part of our Constitution would be universally guaranteed. Of all this we should have respect and also of what has happened in the stories of the people who wrote the Constitution and who have continued to debate over the decades. Among the most curious things that I happened to learn about in the work done for the last constitutional reform, there was an anecdote that impressed me: many communists, many members of the Communist Party, arrived in Parliament without knowing anything, even struggling to speak Italian. The Communist Party asked the most experienced, culturally competent people and at that time more prepared than the Christian Democracy to give lectures to communist parliamentarians. Can we therefore think of dealing with such a significant change in the Constitution without taking into account the tension of change, the desire to give the best of themselves that taught us, in that case, the representatives of two political forces, who were exactly the opposite in the parliamentary deployment? Can we do that? No, because otherwise we would do nothing but break a relationship of trust, which can only stand in the background between the components and the political parties that sit in Parliament, when the change of the Constitution is at stake. The relationship of trust is to think that, even though we have different positions, we can achieve a common goal together. So, all the arguments I've brought in lead you to rethink how we deal with this issue. All the motivations and also the personal stories and cultural contributions that I have tried briefly to remember induce you to bring, with your head high, dignity in these classrooms, also because, otherwise, I have the impression that we would find ourselves - I say it in particular to our colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars - in front of another mocking act, similar to the Porcellum, which would be a terrible and very serious blow for our democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u169	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u170	Mr President, Forza Italia has in its DNA a serious, authentic and demonstrated reformist will in the field. We claim a path that, already several legislatures ago, led to the launch of a comprehensive and broad text of reform of the Constitution, which concerned yes, the cut in the number of parliamentarians, of which today exclusively and in a limited way is discussed, but also the direct election of the Premier, a different relationship between central state and territory and a whole series of issues concerning the life of Italian democracy. The confirmed referendum of that reform of the Constitution was held in 2006, immediately after a political election for us unfortunate, but actually losing only by 26,000 votes. And, while discussing the recount of the ballots and starting a government that then lasted little (the Prodi bis Government), that referendum took place, which fell at a time when perhaps the denigration by the left - let us remember - of some content concerning federalism, which was misrepresented in the Mezzogiorno, and the distraction after the elections, led to a negative result for that reform. Democracy is also made up of confirmation referendums and this has been the case. I remember to tell the improvised headbreakers that we're real reformers and we don't make election ads to distract people. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have contributed in the last parliamentary term, as long as politically possible, to a reform process. The governments were of others, there was PD to the government. We have seen changes in the scene and intertwine with the electoral law; we have spent nights in this House when the majority prizes were passed from coalitions to lists. You will say: what does the electoral law have to do with reforms? It was a related package of issues. In the end, the PD and the Renzi Government have confused him so much, that they have made him indigestible for us, that we had also collaborated, because, colleagues, the reforms of the Constitution are of all and we have learned this at the expense of referendums, which we have lost, both. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is a small piece, ladies and gentlemen, to distract people. We have not, in fact, been able to vote on the budget law, we have not, in fact, been able to vote on the simplification decree-law, we have not been able to vote on Venezuela and freedom in the world, a fundamental value. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Then we hear the lesson for the very respectable people of bars, which I frequent, because democracy is made by the people of bars, by commuters who, on trains and metropolitans, speak with insufferance of politics, so the cut of parliamentarians is a very popular theme. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, we have approved the cut of Members with four readings, together with the reform of the Constitution, bringing it to the popular vote, so we do not take lessons from anyone. You of the 5 Stars want now, with this commercial, to cover a number of things, as some colleagues have said. Tell us instead about the use and throwaway of Savona, a person of whom I speak with respect: one day he must be the Minister of the Economy, then it is not good and he does the Minister of Community politics, who has left no trace, now he must go to Consob, office for which he certainly has the competences, but he does not have the requirements of law, dear gentlemen, and it is not that the law is changed. Nothing about the person and his/her skills, but there are laws and incompatibility. You guys are doing a commercial. You have also done something unique: everyone is waiting for the decisions on the TAV and you, who are, who are more, who are less sovereign, the decisions of the French and the European Union rather than the Parliament of the Italian Republic. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] So, in the face of this, is the problem here whether we're 320, 200 or 180? We made those reforms, and they would be in force in their entirety, if they had a popular consensus that there wasn't. But we don't take the little lessons. The costs of democracy have been said: it costs more Casalino than the President of the Count Council, it costs more the electoral trumpets that you are recycling in all ministries, without titles and competences. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Senators Bellanova and Boldrini]] It cost the Rays more to report the various Lanzalones, didn't it? Today's ministers of the 5 Stars have sent from Liguria or Livorno the Lanzalones to the Municipality of Rome and ACEA. How much did the Lanzalones cost us on duty? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And then, you can't do moralization contests. Let's forget about family, because it would be ingenious to talk about condons, black jobs and other things. Forget it, we'll save it. Let us say that the waste problem is a problem to be tackled, but the quality of democracy is also an issue to be defended. You had to open Parliament up like a can of tuna: you took the can and ate the tuna, erasing democracy and erasing the confrontation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And the open box is also sharp: careful how you handle it, because after you open the tuna with the opener, they are always very dangerous objects to handle. Therefore, the speech on the reduction of Members of Parliament, which we made when you were following Grillo, I do not know whether on the stages of the shows or those of politics. We want transparency, because we can reduce the number of parliamentarians, but not the amount of democracy, which is not the obscure way to consult you that you have with the Rousseau platforms or with the Casaleggio methods. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Parliaments have been reproached for centuries and we could fill you with anti-parliamentary citations. Parliament has always been the target of controversy and invective, from the right and left, from D'Annunzio to the present day. You could do literature even a little more qualified than Toninelli's. We want respect for substantial democracy; we will decide how to vote and we will vote in a group assembly, but we are strong behind reforms. Then there are four readings here, ladies and gentlemen, and we will see if at this time the form of government will be clarified, what is the relationship between the central state and the territory and what are the overall policies, because at the economic level we have already judged you. Our Group does not like the edicts of the International Monetary Fund, they are bodies that have often done damage, but go and read the confirmation of the recession. Do the commercial to reduce the number of parliamentarians because you have also led to the reduction of the Italian economy and the recession. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] These are the figures, other than + 1.9 or + 1.6% and all the figures you have given: let's talk about the 0.6 percent increase, so the budget law was written on the sand and it was not discussed. The President of the Senate had, at some point, in those days of December, also to emphasize some ways. The President of the Republic of Mattarella, on 31 December, in his message at the end of the year, invited Parliament to discuss what happened on the budget law and we want to discuss how you, this Government, have treated the Parliament of the Republic, even if it were composed of 50 people, because representative democracy is essential. The referendum: as other colleagues have said, we want the referendums, but we need to understand the quorums, the representation. It is not that they are done with the people who do not participate and with the invectives, in case we also do the result through the platform Rousseau and we go to change the fundamental principles. We must restore participation in democracy and Parliament is a representative place. It can be improved and it can have new regulations: we have also collaborated in the Senate to draft them, in the last legislature, because our culture is a true government culture, not of power like yours that you are occupying every area with disqualified people. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Our culture is a culture of government, because our thinking and our action is always directed to the interests of the nation, the state and the national community. We have demonstrated this and at times it has been abused of our availability and Silvio Berlusconi, who, while participating in reformatory processes, with illegal modalities was excluded from the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Let us remind him: he was expelled while the opposition also made a contribution by accepting the compromises, the waivers that Parliament's numbers sometimes impose. We share the reforms, but all the reforms, not the commercial to make the Lanzalones forget, the gaffe the Toninellis, the problems of family members, the recession that there is, the employment that does not grow and the promises on the income of citizenship that you will not be able to maintain, because you have promised much and you will give little in confusing ways. We can give you lessons in reformism, because we have tried and made important reforms. If on this path a true reform of the Italian Republic will take place and also direct democracy, the real one, not that of the computers that everyone can manipulate, but the direct election of the Head of Government or the President of the Republic, an essential element of democracy and of real people who vote, we will see, in the path, what will happen. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The commercials you do not need much, especially the 5 Stars component has filled us with commercials but the votes, which were many - and there are still many, for goodness sake, I can count the votes and we give you notice - are now falling. After all, if your model of democracy is that of torturer Maduro, we are something else. Hold on to Maduro, we hold on to Parliament's democracy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u171	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u172	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would immediately like to mention those who preceded me, namely Senator Gasparri, of whom I appreciated the endless jokes, those for which, for example, we would be the customs officers of the various Lanzalones, when Senator Gasparri supported the Governments for decades, which at this point, paying them back with the same currency, I will call various Berlusconi. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , which are the governments that - not only them - have brought the state of health of the country into a phase of extraordinary prostration. You see, Senator Gasparri, you have to attend all the places in democracy, even the bars, as you rightly said, but you have to have the humility to listen and when you are wrong you have to admit it. We were born, about ten years ago, Senator Gasparri, because the traditional political forces, no matter how much so-called public opinion asked for an effort of moralization, did everything except moralize themselves. Senator Gasparri, I am ashamed to belong to a State in which there is controversy because the income of citizenship, for me extraordinary measure obtained by this Government, is considered too close to the average salary guaranteed to the under 30 Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is not the responsibility of those who are talking, but of those who were just making jokes about bar democracy and perhaps in those bars crowded citizens who did not know with what to make their children and their wives eat. That's a problem. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of the FI-BP Group]] MALAN (FI-BP). Who doesn't have food doesn't go to the bar! MORRA (M5S). I hear a buzz. The "vaffa" is a healthy philosophy, if you know how to take it with irony, but irony must never be lacking among us and I do it for myself. When I first entered here on 15 March 2013, I still remember, as it were today, the moment I entered this House. For me it was a moment of absolute sacredness. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I entered the place that, in some way, had helped to determine for millions and millions of Italian battles of true civilizations, battles of legality, battles of justice. In that place I, as I think so many others, would have given everything myself to do justice, but justice first and foremost social, because in this country, President, there is a damn need for social justice. And then, however much as it may be, even half a billion euros, the savings that this constitutional reform can produce, is still a transfer of resources from those who have, perhaps so much, to those who do not have, because with the governments in which there are 5 Star Movimento parliamentarians, we look at the last and not the so-called lobbyists, not the stakeholders, not those who have already had so much and claim to have even more. [[Comments from the FI-BP Group.]] What does that mean, President? Mr President, do we want to talk about the aberrations that the system has brought about? Do you remember, in the last legislature, Senator Roberto Calderoli who, with wheelbarrow - metaphorically speaking - brought millions of amendments to stop obstructively a measure that he wanted to stop? But is it, or is it not, irrational to produce millions of amendments? Can they be examined? And what is parliamentary obstructionism, if not a degenerate form of opposition to forms of authoritarian democracy that are imposed by Parliament? [[Applause from the M5S Group. Vivacious protests from the PD Group]] FADELI (PD). What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. MORRA (M5S). I would like to conclude, Mr President, but if I speak, I do it to make myself understood, and if... [[Comments from the FI-BP Group. Lively protests from the PD Group.]] VALENT (PD). You had occupied the government benches! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Everyone is free to express what they want, even if you do not share it. [[Comments and protests from the PD Group.]] Everyone is free to say what they want. Let me tell you something. You just don't share it. Go on. MALPEZZI (PD). He's got to make speeches on the merits! MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I believe that democracy is also, and above all, mutual listening. MALPEZZI (PD). But if the Minister wasn't in the Chamber! VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. You're doing the obstruction on your own. MORRA (M5S). We should all wonder what the point is... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr. President, let's move on. I understand that it is necessary to carry on always with a smile. Now, we all know that the cost reduction should also be accompanied by other measures, which will not fail... MALPEZZI (PD). Tell us. MORRA (M5S). ...because we will have to guarantee - for example - additional savings by touching on the allowances and allowances to be paid to individual Members of Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the FI-BP Group]] VALENT (PD). Buffoon! Buffoon! That's all! MORRA (M5S). I may be a joker, but it is our Constitution that speaks of imperative duties of political, social and economic solidarity when the country is in difficulty. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] VALENT (PD). Cynic! Only on people's desperation! MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I want to conclude. [[Comments from the PD Group and Senator Saccone.]] I expected a colleague who has incredible legal wisdom to make his voice heard in this debate; he is a Treviso lawyer to whom the Senate of the Republic pays all the allowances monthly, as is right. I think it's Niccolò Ghedini. I would like to know what percentage of this Member has in this House and in the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Coal (FI-BP). How dare you! MORRA (M5S). Because of this, too... president. I do not believe that you should censor attendance or absence in this House. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It will certainly be justified, but I wonder... PRESIDENT. We don't need talking crickets in here. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] Smiling always feels good and I accept the joke. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u173	Please let him finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u174	[[Senator Marcucci's comments.]] VOICE FROM THE FI-BP GROUP. Talking cricket! MORRA (M5S). I remember quotes made, precise and punctual by so many of those who have spoken. Aldo Moro was mentioned and Salvemini was remembered. Great. I'd like everyone to put a hand on our hearts because this country is dying. [[Comments from FI-BP and PD Groups.]] We, little by little, are trying to save him. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u175	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u176	Mr President, the first thing I have to say in response is that I have never been mentioned so many times in the speeches as when I did not speak. I can think of the movie "Ecce bombo" in which Nanni Moretti wondered if he would be noticed more at a party if he had gone, or not. Today I have the answer: to be remembered, it is better not to go to the party. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] My failure to speak is not a provocation, nor a gesture of disrespect: it is the formal application of our Rules of Procedure, which provides for the report to be written and that the rapporteur can also ask for oral integration. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] When I examined the previous measure which I was rapporteur for, I referred to the written report and no one said anything. It would be desirable if every time there is a written report, one does not take advantage of that moment to go and get applause. I believe that the role of the rapporteur, even though he is a majority, must be technical and should not be sought for applause or anything like that. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I also imagined that someone would have the will to read the report, as it consists of a page and a half. You don't have to be a great mathematician or engineer to write that the number of MPs goes from 630 to 400 and that of senators from 315 to 200. The rest of the reasons are political. I will take the political part in the explanation of vote when I can comment on the content of the reform. Therefore, my reply will only concern what has been said in this House. 80 speeches were made, and so there was a good general discussion. The debate in this House took place, just as it was held regularly, for a certain period, in the Commission. Therefore, we are in the most ordinary management of the measure. These days I have heard very often about the need for comprehensive reform and not just on time, not being able to change a single point of the Constitution if everything else is not changed. Colleagues, I no longer fall for it, because I fell for it, as Minister, in 2005: after having voted on the reform that changed the whole Constitution, it was rejected by the popular referendum. There are also political reasons behind those votes. I remember that your reform was also rejected in 2016 by referendum. There are two cases. I do not believe that our fellow citizens are against the abolition of the CNEL, rather than the reduction in the number of Members. They do not want them to be asked a series of questions which they consider incomprehensible. So there is rejection and reform is rejected. For this reason, we have taken the path of surgical and punctual reforms, in which it was clear the will of what was being proposed and voted both here and, in the case, by the people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Some say that the intervention is not of surgery, but even of microsurgery, because we intervened only on the number of parliamentarians. But do you think that there was not, even on the part of the members of the Commission themselves, the will - for example - to intervene on the active electorate of the Senate to make it truly universal suffrage? We all wanted to do it. Wouldn't anyone want to repeal the CNEL? We all wanted to do it. We have written that we would reduce the number of parliamentarians and have deliberately limited ourselves to this, within a context that is not exclusively of this single reform, because the individual reforms, if one wants, can see them in the government contract, which I know is not a document, but you can still consult [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] ; you can also remember reading what President Conte said, when he requested confidence, or the parliamentary accounts of the hearings of Minister Fraccaro. There you will find the individual pieces of the Lego with which you make the overall reform. And this is the state of the art. I have also heard many other beautiful things: we talked not only about reform, but also about the budget law, and much, about the decree simplifications and the numbers of the Mothers and the constituent Fathers. And that shocked me, because in the Constitution they never wrote the number of deputies and senators, which was born instead with Constitutional Law No. 2 of 1963. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I do not think that the tyranny or the risk of democracy is at stake, which I have also heard of. You can say whatever you want, but I limit myself to the content of the law. Do you want to reduce the number of Members, yes or no? That is the first question. If I have to take what has been proposed and supported over the years, it seems to me that we want to reduce the number of Members. But saying yes or no can not be equivalent to what I have heard for two days, like: yes, but; we do the reduction tomorrow, or on the weekend, but there is my wife getting married; no, she has a communion and then there is the birthday of her uncle. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] No, now you have to target. Mr Marcucci (PD). Don't be a clown, talk about the Constitution! Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Either you want to reduce it or you don't want to reduce it. The proposed reduction is 230 Members and 115 Senators. Then one may or may not agree on the reduction, may say that we have reduced them too much or that we have reduced them too little. It is absolutely there, but within this I want to carry out my own assessments, just as we did in the Commission, where there has been a number of problems that we have addressed and resolved. There was the Molise problem: one or two seats? We've decided for two, and we've solved the problem. There was the problem of the two autonomous provinces of Trento and Bolzano, which would have been penalized, with a heated comparison on the respect of the values contained in measure 111 of the so-called South Tyrol package, and we solved it. We had the problem of the right number with respect to the minimum that each Region should have and debated starting from the seven of the current Constitution, but there were those who proposed six, five, four; then we identified the three as the most balanced number, because unfortunately we have Regions that range from just over 300,000 inhabitants to ten million and succeed in guaranteeing to all a balance, respecting the fact that the Senate is elected on a regional basis, has not been absolutely easy. We think it is the best possible solution - or the least worst - but mathematics is such and this is a 36.5 percent reduction. I would also like to say this with respect to those of the opposition who said that we have solved this and this other problem, but only those of the elected abroad remain. If there is a problem, it cannot be referred to the elected people abroad, because from twelve they move to eight in the House and the Senate from six to four. If everyone, at national level, reduces by 36.5%, for me the same reduction must also apply to those elected abroad. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from Senators Alderisi and Fantetti.]] Responding to those who speak behind my back, but I feel, I am one of the few who voted against the Tremaglia law and, if it were to depend on my will, I would have abolished the elected abroad altogether. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] FANTETTI (FI-BP). Bad! Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. And in fact I did not abolish them, but I reduced them like all the others. FANTETTI (FI-BP). If we do not comply with the laws, Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. In anticipating a speech we will make tomorrow on the amendments, but it is the last remaining of the remaining problems because everything else we have dealt with it, I would like to mention the system of weights and counterweights that would - according to someone - be broken due to the change in the number of Members. The only thing that is affected is the different relationship compared to the 58 major regional voters for the election of the President of the Republic, so someone proposes a reduction from three representatives per Region to two. Is it right or wrong? I have made some calculations: today the 58 large regional voters are weighing out of the 1003 total voters by 5.8 percent. With our proposal, out of the 658 total voters would weigh 8.9 percent. But I'm not saying that 8.9 percent of voters will be squirmed, excited or delinquent. I am talking about people who have been elected to the Regional Council and, in the vast majority of cases, legitimized through preference voting. So, I don't see what's so crazy about the fact that the great voters of the President of the Republic are 58 and stay 58. Mr Urso (FdI). It should also apply to Italians abroad. ALDERISI (FI-BP). There are also Italians abroad. Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Speaking of Italians abroad, I remember saying "no taxation without representation." For me it is: no taxation, no representation. You already have it here for a good part. Something's come to you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from FI-BP and PD Groups.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). President, you're offending a part of the Senate! You can't say anything! Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. If it is so subversive, having raised the weight of regional councillors to 8.9%, I do not understand how this position can then be supported and proposed an amendment by those who in the last parliamentary term had given regional councillors and mayors a weight of 13%, because 630 Members, 74 regional councillors and 21 mayors voted in the electoral college. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] BINI (PD). But it was a different system! Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. So I feel calm in this respect. Tonight, if there is a reason for this and tomorrow in the case - but I think this evening - we shall come to the substance of the assessment of the individual amendments. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u177	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u178	Mr President, I would like to thank all the senators who have spoken. I cannot deny that the Government wishes to approve this reform simply because it is present in the Government contract and I cannot fail to welcome the method adopted which provides for timely reforms. As Minister for Direct Democracy, I believe that this could lead, in the event of a referendum, to a single question with regard to our fellow citizens. Despite this, Mr President, I would like to give up my reply on this matter and ask you not to regard it as a disrespect for this House. MALPEZZI (PD). Because you weren't in the Chamber! FRACCARO, Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy. I do not repeat simply because, on the contrary, I respect this House. Despite all this, I believe that, in constitutional matters and even more so in the face of a reform involving the number of parliamentarians, senators and Members, the Government must return completely to Parliament and its will as the supreme representative of the Italian people. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u181	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, the Minister has just told us that the Government attaches great importance to the approval of this reform measure, because it is in the government contract. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Then he tells us the lie that the government isn't interested, doesn't have the courage to take responsibility for this issue. No, Minister, if you exclude this issue from the government contract, it's an account. But if he justifies the desire for approval as coming from the government contract, as he said earlier, then he must intervene and tell us the reasons why the government supports this kind of measure. You cannot say everything in this House and the contract of everything, as you are used to doing to the government. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Therefore, if the government's motivation for support is the government contract, intervene and have a sense of responsibility towards Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency states that amendments 2,113, 2.7 and 2.0.1, as they are unrelated to the purpose of the bill, which only amends Articles 56, 57 and 59 of the Constitution with regard to the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u185	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I apologize and understand that we are all tired. However, honestly, do not be annoyed if we ask for action on constitutional reform, when the Presidency has taken the decision to make amendments that would allow us to address the real issue of constitutional reform impossible. [[Comments of Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u186	Please let him finish. He's expressing his opinion. Please shut up.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u187	Senator Marcucci, continue. Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, we do not agree with this incontrovertibility at all. I've had a chance to tell him. [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u188	Senator, I answer on this, being this only my unappellable prerogative. AIROLA (M5S). The President does not run the sitting properly. [[Comments from the PD Group]] FADELI (PD). Mr President, what you said to her is unacceptable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marcucci, can you finish your speech, please? Mr Marcucci (PD). I believe that Senator Airola's attitude is a consequence of the 5 Star Movement's attitude towards Parliament if there was a need for confirmation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's coming out. Mr Marcucci (PD). He's coming out on his own. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, let's get to the point. Say what you want to say.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u189	All right, Mr President, but it is up to you to ensure that I can speak. If I'm interrupted, it's not my responsibility. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] We do not agree, on the contrary, we are very frustrated and concerned about the attitude towards inpropos. We cannot accept the reasoning that the rapporteur has just expressed, namely that, in any case, micro-surgical operations can be carried out on their own that do not affect in the overall framework of our Constitutional Charter, because our Constitutional Charter is, however, a whole that lies in the overall dynamics and balances and finds its strength there. I would refer to your desire to make the amendments impossible and not to give us the opportunity to discuss the impact on the Charter of a measure such as this, which is part of a very precise draft, because this must be taken into account. We know very well what this majority's plan is; we know it for the constitutional changes that have been tabled in the Senate and for those presented at the same time to the House. That the plan is to reduce as much as possible the capacity for intervention in the legislative process of the Parliament (Senate and Chamber of Deputies) by this majority is obvious. [[Applause from the PD Group]] So when we ask you to speak with an amendment, Mr President, we did not act like Senator Calderoli; we did not decide to table thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions of instrumental amendments, Mr President. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have decided to table some units of amendments. The President of the Commission has prevented us from discussing them, explaining them, comparing them with your majority in the Commission. You are doing the same in this House. Mr President, this attitude is very serious and dangerous. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This attitude runs counter to the logic of an open and constructive debate on the Constitutional Charter and its amendments. So, it's extremely worrying. You are creating a precedent today that we absolutely cannot accept. You are undermining the possibility, within the Senate of the Republic, to discuss [[Applause from the PD Group]] , to confront political forces on the modification of our Constitutional Charter.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u190	Senator Marcucci, I respect your thought, but I can't accept you saying I'm under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u191	Mr Marcucci (PD). But it is. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I can't accept that. Mr Marcucci (PD). He doesn't accept it, but he does. You are undermining the possibility of having an effective and constructive confrontation on these passages. You are doing so, Mr President, and I say this as much as I want in this House, because everything can be removed but not the freedom to express our opinion. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We don't let him do that. We have this freedom, and if you've made a mistake...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u192	I gave you the floor, but now I'm taking it away from you, because you wouldn't even have the right to intervene - and you know very well - about inproposities. [[Lively protests from the PD Group. Applause from the M5S Group]] I've made her talk so far. Since you have posed a problem, I understand how to oppose it, but it cannot be a destitute opposition of legal basis. [[Comments of Senator Marcucci]] Let me finish. I got her to talk. The text proposed by the Commission is titled "Amendments to Articles 56, 57 and 59 of the Constitution on the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament." I have examined all the amendments that have been tabled, one by one, as I do, so much so that I have readmitted - you have said so - two amendments which were declared inadmissible by the Commission precisely because I considered them relevant. I did not consider it admissible - and you know it better than I do - for those concerning the content of the changes of bicameralism. You have entered into the substance of a reform that is not this. In the draft law in title, it is only a question of reducing the number of Members of Parliament. The amendments which I have declared inadmissible relate to all the substantive amendments which refer to something else, the amendment that you have made, even considering - for example - that the Senate should have a different competence than the House. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I do not know whether it is right or wrong, but I only know that this is not part of the substance of the measure under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u195	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. I think I have to say something meaningful and I will do it with great respect for you. Mr President, you have just said that there is a legal justification for the declaration of inadmissibility on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u196	Senator Parrini, your Parent Company has already spoken about inadmissibility and, therefore, I do not give you the floor on this. I am sorry, but - as you know - by way of Rules of Procedure my decision is unappellable and I have already had your Parent Company speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u197	Mr President, in my general speech, I have not had the opportunity to go into more detail on the rules of constitutional revision, on the reduction of the number of Members, who have been proposed to us. The rapporteur, however, in his reply, has given me a better way of explaining the amendments I have tabled. Mr President, the numbers of 400 and 200 Members have been proposed by the rapporteur and by the majority - this was also the case during the debate in the Commission - but, as far as I am concerned - and I also believe that other Members are concerned - I have not found any trace of an anchor to certain data. Maybe it's a simple calculation or maybe it sounded good the sum of 400 and 200, with which you get to 600, which is perhaps a perfect number. The anchoring to certain data frankly escapes me. What, then, do I mean by certain data? The precious dossier that has been prepared by the Offices also gives us data from other countries. I understand that perhaps the ambition, with the numbers of 400 and 200 MPs, was to bring our country to a record in the relationship between elected and inhabitants. I would point out, since we are in the Senate - even if Article 1 concerns the Chamber of Deputies - that with the proposal at our examination, seeing the table of comparison between the various high chambers, the number of members of the Italian Senate per 100,000 inhabitants would have a coefficient of 0,3, which would therefore be one of the lowest, examined the different situations. Mr President, just to show that our effort is to give at least some rationality to everything, we have prepared some amendments, including 1.1 and 1.00, anchoring them to a very simple count, with reference to the countries closest to us, as a number of inhabitants and as a structure. Therefore, the numbers we have indicated, for example by changing the number of Members from 400 to 530 and then, to follow, also the other numbers concerning the elected abroad, are the simple result of an attempt to find a proposal that was halfway between Germany and France, so as to make happy perhaps both the contracting parties of the government contract. We could have also referred perhaps to the United Kingdom average which - as Senator Calderoli knows - is indeed much higher, but we have chosen to make much more convincing and much more similar amending proposals to the situation in Germany and France. Mr President, the number also arises - and this is an issue that we will be addressing - from the fact that we have to think about how the work of the Chambers and, in particular, of the Senate will be organized. With the proposed number of senators, equal to 200, I believe that there will be many problems in reorganizing the Commissions and, therefore, perhaps another time we will have to put our hands back, if this reform were finally passed, also to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. Therefore, the proposal that we make, which seems very balanced to us, is to bring the number at least to 530, which is exactly the point of approach to the nearest countries. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u198	Mr President, we have tabled an amendment to Article 1 concerning elected persons abroad, Amendment 1.2. We explained yesterday, on the basis of a petition of thousands of our fellow citizens residing abroad, why, in the face of an increase in AIRE members that has been very strong in the years, from 2,700,000 in 2006 to almost 4 and a half million today, we consider it absurd to intervene with a measure such as the one under consideration. Senator Calderoli, with an arrogance that I would have liked her to stigmatize, has treated the elected people abroad as people who are unworthy of being in this House, because they do not pay taxes in Italy. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] I would never have believed that a potential aspiring constituent Father like Senator Calderoli could touch a level of vulgarity such as this comment contains. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, I am obliged to say that we have been prevented, due to a supposed extraneousness of the matter, from discussing amendments which concern the possibility for eighteen-year-olds to vote for the Senate and to be elected at the age of twenty-five and the possibility for the Presidents of the Regional Councils to join the Senate with the right to vote when discussing matters relating to Articles 116 et seq. of the Constitution. We were also prevented from discussing the differentiation of functions with regard to the two Chambers, surpassing the system of duplications that we have today. Is there a legal basis for this decision? Unfortunately, Mr President, I do not see him. And I must condemn your choice, because first of all it represents an abuse - from my point of view - of the power to make unappellable decisions that this Rules of Procedure and our Constitution confer upon you. That his decisions are unappellable is out of the question. But that you can use unappellability to compress the rights of senators and to prevent this Senate from arguing, that is not out of the question in my opinion. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u199	Be respectful.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u200	Mr Parrini (PD). I'm very respectful.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u201	It is a matter of respect for the institutions. He can also protest by moderate terms. I invite you to be polite to me, because no one here has abused. There is a difference between discretion and referee. FARAONE (PD). You can't even talk!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u202	I respect you very much and I will explain why I do not agree with your decision. Excuse me, but I'll explain to you why I have to condemn this decision. The amendment that concerns the overcoming of the bicameralism differentiated precisely concerns the presence of the Presidents of the Region in the Senate with the right to vote for certain matters and, therefore, affects the composition and is not foreign by subject. The Constitution provides in the same article both the age at which Members may be elected and the composition of the Chamber. So to say that the proposal to have the eighteen-year-olds vote for the Senate and to have them elected at the age of twenty-five is a matter which is neither in heaven nor on earth, because it is not foreign in matter! [[Applause from the PD Group]] Do you understand that? I say it with respect: it is a criticism that I make on the merits. Then I also say that it is not true at all that you have respected the precedents, because there is a precedent that goes back to President Schifani. A bill bearing the title was being discussed: "Amendments to Articles 55 and 57 and repeal of Article 58 of the Constitution on the composition of the Senate of the Republic and on the active and passive electorate." Do you know what amendments were declared admissible, because we were talking about the Constitution, not about good petrol? The amendments of the People of Liberty signed by Gasparri concerning presidentialism were declared admissible. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In other words, in a discussion on the composition of the Senate amendments on the form of government were declared admissible. [[Extended applause from the PD Group]] And today you prevent us from discussing the possibility for eighteen-year-olds to vote for the Senate and the possibility for the Presidents of the Region to vote in the Senate on the matters referred to in Article 116 of the Constitution! Do you realize what you're doing? [[Extended applause from the PD Group]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Bravo! Mr Parrini (PD). And all this, Mr President, takes place a month and a half after the very black page, which unfortunately you are also responsible for, of the impossibility for the Senate to discuss the budget law. [[Extended applause from the PD Group]] It never happened in history. You tied your name to this precedent! You know better than I do, Mr President - I am telling you with respect - what the Constitutional Court has done by discussing our appeal: you have declared it inadmissible, but in the accompanying statement you said that, if the Senate or the House repeats such a vileness, it will declare the act unconstitutional. I thought that, a month and a half away from those facts, from such a strong warning and from such a strong criticism that the highest institution of our order has done to the will to compress the freedom of senators to discuss, there was a more serious and broader decision [[Applause from the PD Group]] ; a decision that did not stifle the Senate debate, but, especially because it was a Constitution, let it be... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u203	I don't have the habit of taking the word off, but I'd like you to respect the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u204	Mr President, I would like to withdraw Amendment No 1,105 and instead maintain Amendment No 1,106, referring directly to Article 6 of the Constitution: 'The Republic shall protect linguistic minorities by appropriate rules'. The Slovenian minority is the only one of the three historical linguistic minorities in Italy that does not have an electoral norm that can guarantee its participation and presence in the work of Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u205	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u207	FANTETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking as a co-signator of amendment 1.2, also in response to Mr Calderoli's doubly fallacious argument about the foreign constituency. Mention has been made of the principle of "no taxation without representation" which the Americans have used against British colonialists. I would like to point out that we have not incorporated it into the Italian Constitution: the one in the register, such as race, sex, religion and residence, are not criteria for discrimination against Italian citizenship. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I would also point out that the volume of Italian remittances abroad has been in the history - and continues to be - very relevant for the purposes of Italian tax. Just as I point out that Italians abroad are the only ones who pay the IMU on the first house: a discrimination that exists only for us. So if we want to talk about going in, let's do it. If we want to talk about citizenship, we can do so: we have proposed changing the criteria several times, but this is not the place. I would like to point out to the rapporteur another more political point: last March 2018 the political force you represent came with us from Forza Italia abroad asking for the trust of hundreds of thousands, millions of Italians abroad, receiving it on the basis of a shared program that believed in Italians abroad. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Those Italians have given us confidence not to be discriminated against, cancelled and expelled at the first opportunity that presents itself, as in this case. You are committing an atrocity, the moment the emigration burst and the numbers grow. From all parts of Italy, in particular from the South, it emigrates and at this moment you want to make the Senate of the Republic a representation of Italians abroad of 5 and a half million people in the hands of four people, including a senator who would - God forbid - 3.3 million Italians. Imagine who may be the candidate for a college of 3.3 million Italians. This is a record book. This is registration discrimination, because imagine who can face such a campaign. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] There is also a problem of constitutionality: there is a principle of proportion, established by the Constitutional Court, of adequacy between means and ends. It is not possible to establish a level playing field between the purpose of representing citizens in Parliament and the means of making them vote among 3.3 million people. There is no representativeness, the same democratic nature is violated. The measure of constitutional change under consideration would clearly be unconstitutional, and I have no concern about that. The concern I have is that you are politically committing suicide behind the backs of a few people who are represented here by a few of us, but who still can speak. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u210	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I must apologise to you and to my fellow Group leaders, because during the Conference of Group Presidents I did not say that at 8 p.m. this evening our Group's meeting had already been convened precisely in order to take subsequent decisions with respect to the measure on which we are debating. In apologising, therefore, although there are many precedents of decisions that have been taken during the work of this House, I would ask that the votes on the amendments and the wording be postponed to tomorrow morning's sitting. This will not cause delays in the approval of the measure in terms of day, because in the morning it will be concluded, given the very small number, further restricted after the news it has given us. I therefore ask you and the majority and minority group leaders to support this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u211	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u213	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, always with regard to the representation of our fellow countrymen living abroad, Senator Calderoli has been very clear in his words, saying that he has always been opposed to the Tremaglia law; that he has allowed, after long battles of the right, to finally give the vote to our fellow countrymen abroad. It's a moment of clarity. We of Brothers of Italy claim that inheritance, we claim that law and we are proud that today, in the Senate and in the House, there are representatives of our fellow countrymen abroad thanks to a battle of Tremaglia, which we claim and of which we are proud. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] This, in fact, is a much deeper concept than what we are saying today. Senator Calderoli has always said that there can be no representation without paid taxes. This is a vision of our national community that does not surprise me from who - I say without controversy - has never been an Italian nationalist, nor an Italian patriot, unlike us who consider our compatriots who has Italian origins, who is of Italian nationality, regardless of the citizenship he has. For us the concept of nation goes beyond the concept of national borders, certainly 100% for those who have Italian citizenship and live abroad, but - I say more - for us also for those who do not have Italian citizenship, but are of Italian nationality. This is something so alien to the vision of this Government, that it calls itself sovereignist but that nothing has sovereignist, that it cannot understand how it should - for example - protect its own Venezuelan national communities even if it is a Venezuelan passport, because those are Italian in all respects, pay or not pay taxes, have or not the Italian passport. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] Here, instead, we are even talking about Italians with Italian citizenship who are contracted the right to represent the House and the Senate, because it would appear that they do not pay taxes. But this is also an inexact one: it has been remembered that our compatriots abroad pay taxes because they pay the IMU; with the remittances enrich our country and on them other people pay taxes. Therefore, in this respect, we reaffirm as Brothers of Italy the will that our representation of our fellow countrymen abroad be valued and not insulted as it has been done. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u214	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u215	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u216	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I rise as a result of the request to start voting tomorrow. I agree with this request and I believe that it would change the course of the sitting and the votes a little. We could start tomorrow and go on and on. There are not many amendments and I do not think there would be too many problems.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u217	I would suggest, if you agree, that we proceed to the vote tomorrow morning, but this evening we could finish with the various articles. I repeat that we could vote tomorrow morning, but proceed now with the illustrations.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u218	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u219	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u220	Garavini (PD). Mr President, I am speaking in relation to the statements made by the rapporteur, Senator Calderoli. I find it very unfortunate, Mr Calderoli, that you have given those two elements as your motivations. Clearly, in my speech yesterday I was not sufficiently clear. You refer to the fact that the proportion between elected in Italy and elected abroad should be the same. The combination of two elements - the fact that there is already a strong disproportion between the electorate expressing an elected person in Italy and the electorate expressing an elected person abroad - means, however, that in reality there is not the proportion to which you refer. I had hoped that you would talk about this at the beginning of your speech when you said that there was and remains the problem of elected people abroad. Unfortunately, you have not only failed to respond to this problem with your statements, but you have even offended Italians abroad. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bressa]] I'm quoting the data again. We will have - if this reform goes into effect - the fact that, from one elector every 150,000 to the House, we will go to one every 700,000. So, there is a radical disproportion. The Senate, if 300,000 voters are needed for an elected MP in Italy, 1,400,000 will be needed abroad. Can you tell me where proportionality is? Tell me, Senator Calderoli? There is no proportionality: it is a beautiful and good injustice. In addition, you said: "No taxation, no representation". You know how many of our compatriots pay taxes, because they also have a small income in Italy because - for example - owners of a property in the country? So, Senator, this is truly a huge injustice and I hope that the majority will realize what they are doing. It is not in the case of the fact that, perhaps only because they have not been sufficiently awarded from the electoral point of view, we now want to go back against Italians abroad. [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi.]] This is a real shame. The Italians abroad will be identified, among other things, by a Government that fills its mouth proclaiming the fact of having an elected Undersecretary abroad. If this is to be the result for our fellow countrymen, I think they will gladly do without it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is a real injustice, a real shame that goes to the detriment of all our fellow citizens, who instead keep high the name of Italy and the value of the best Italianity abroad. Just yesterday we had here representatives of civil society, expression of intellectuals, professionals, entrepreneurs, even normal people, but good people, great excellences that really carry on the best of our country. And against these people you are now doing a totally unconstitutional reform, because fair representation is totally erased. I hope, therefore, that this reform will not go into effect because, if it is strongly incorrect and unconstitutional in the part concerning the reduction of the number of parliamentarians in Italy, it is even more so with regard to the representation and the voice of Italians abroad. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u221	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u222	Mr President, a number of sub-amendments have been tabled to Amendment 2.100, tabled by the rapporteur, Senator Calderoli, who, when considering the linguistic minorities - a subject which he has not dealt with very much - has reconfected the number of Members of Parliament with regard to the autonomous provinces of Trento and Bolzano. In the initial proposal it was envisaged that no autonomous region or province could have a number of senators of less than five, while amendment 2,100 is intended to bring the number to three. As a result, there is a reconsideration of the minimum number of senators for each Region. Mr President, I have read some of the figures relating to the proportion of senators and voters with regard to the Upper Houses, and we are talking about the Senate. In the United Kingdom, the number of inhabitants per member is 83,000 and the number of members per 100,000 inhabitants is 1.2. In France, it is 0.5; in Italy - currently - 0.5; in Spain, 0.6. With the new proposal, the coefficient in Italy would be 0.3. Again, we have tried to do something that is anchored in a clearer European framework. I do not read the data from other countries that I hope will stay far enough away from us. I do not give you the example of Slovenia, Ireland and Austria. I have reconsidered the coefficient because - we will see it later, looking at the Senate Act 881, concerning the adaptation of the electoral law to the new numbers, resulting from the reduction of 36% of the number of parliamentarians - we will have great, but great problems of representation of the territories, with very large colleges that - I say also to the Minister - will create further problems of separation between representatives and representatives. In fact, if already with the current law it is very difficult to be able to understand which candidates are and to have a relationship with them in the very large single-member colleges, with such reductions and with the consequent adaptation of the electoral law, this relationship will be relaxed even more. Here too we have done a job of trying to attest to ourselves on an even lower European average. For the House we have proposed a coefficient of 0.8, (in Germany it is 0.9), with a mediation with respect to the proposal of 0.7, and also for the Senate we present a proposal of 265 senators, with a coefficient of 0.4. Mr President, these more reasonable numbers allow for a more efficient articulation (if we want to focus only on the issue of numbers). Then there are some problems that I want to put to you... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, you do not understand anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u223	Colleagues, please, you can't hear anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u224	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). I have now explained the question of numbers and coefficients, to try to give some rationality with respect to the numbers of 400 and 200, because otherwise we do not understand where the coefficients of 0,3 and 0,7 come from. Then there are a number of very sensitive issues that we have represented... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I refuse to explain under these conditions. I prefer to do so tomorrow, Mr President. I would ask you to be careful, ladies and gentlemen, because you cannot understand anything. Who wants to get out, but I ask for some silence, because I would like to hear what Senator De Petris says. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I was about to turn to sensitive issues, which concern the representation of linguistic minorities, but this cannot be done. As you know, Mr President, in this parliamentary term I am quite disciplined, obviously too much, but dignity is not touched. If you will allow me, therefore, having already explained the sub-amendments, I think it is appropriate to explain tomorrow the other amending proposals, which are the most sensitive, as they concern issues such as the problem of linguistic minorities, the representation of political minorities and therefore the pluralism of representation. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Bellanova.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u225	Mr President, I am asking for amendment 2.103 to be withdrawn, while the others are doing just as well as they are.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u226	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u227	Mr President, I would just like to point out that the amendments I tabled relate, in addition to Article 6 of the Constitution, also to Law No 38 of 2001, which includes Article 26: The electoral laws for the election of the Senate of the Republic and of the Chamber of Deputies lay down rules to facilitate access to the representation of candidates belonging to the Slovenian minority. I therefore call on my fellow Members to take this into account, because these are Italian citizens who have the right to express their belongings.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u228	Since we have decided today to explain the amendments, those who have an interest in intervening do so, and those who do not have them, will do so on the individual amendments. The remaining amendments are set out. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u229	Mr President, you - not I - have decided that the whole illustration must be made today. I am telling you that I would reserve the right to do so tomorrow, because I want to talk about a whole set of amendments, but now there are no conditions for doing so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u230	Senator, I assume that if one has an interest in hearing it stops: if the senators have gone away, it means they have no interest in listening; I interpret it this way, since we decided to proceed with the illustration. Who has no interest in illustrating, has left. Who said that? Who made it up to you? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since the Conference of Leaders has established this, I felt that I should continue with the illustration today, as I said clearly. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). It was scheduled to be closed at 8:30 p.m., okay. I will take all the time then and explain the amendments one by one. Amendment 2.100/6... We've moved on to Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u231	I have told you that there is a sensitive issue concerning linguistic minorities, which, as you know, are recognised by our Constitution, in which they have a considerable weight. Even in our Rules of Procedure they are one of the few cases where there is no uncertainty about accepting the secret vote: as you will know perfectly well, this has always been established, because you have a high level of certainty about other issues concerning personal freedom and other articles of our Constitution. There is a very serious problem, which has been well illustrated, which we will have to deal with sooner or later in this House, although I do not know where we have tried to do so in the previous constitutional reform. The Sardinian senators are not in the Chamber, except perhaps one (and at this moment I am standing as Uras even if he has not been re-elected). We have come to the point, as at the end of the previous legislature, that we did not even want to ratify a treaty that recognizes and gives strength to linguistic minorities, that in our country are not only, with all the respect of the SVP, the German minority. In this country, in fact, there are several border areas. For example, the issue of the Slovenian minority is very serious and very delicate also for the history of this country and those borders, and you know it perfectly well. In Friuli-Venezia Giulia there is an issue that historically also affects other components but in general in our country there are linguistic minorities in very large areas. In the past legislature we had problems with the Ladins because we have now settled the issue with the three plus three senators for the Autonomous Provinces but it is not said that the Ladina minority within that scheme is represented and this also strictly concerns South Tyrol and its border with the Autonomous Province of Trento. There is also a language that is not actually recognized: the Sardinian language. Shall we talk about Catalan? The Catalan language not only survives but is also used in some universities; it has a strong identity and does not have any forms of protection although Sardinia is an autonomous region with a special statute, not even with regard to the rules relating to RAI and communication, not to mention the school. I see Senator Buccarella here and he knows exactly what I mean: in Puglia there is a geographical area called Grecìa where the ancient griko is still spoken. All these forms do not have, I do not say a protection like the one we are facing within the representation, but not even a minimum of protection to guarantee the cultural and linguistic biodiversity of this country. I'm sorry that once again, and that's why I asked you to deal with this tomorrow... [[Brusio.]] I understand, Mr President, that you don't care, that's fine with me. However, the issue is very delicate. These are very sensitive problems to which this House - although perhaps not interested, for goodness sake - or someone will have to give answers sooner or later. I repeat, I have a lot of respect and I am very close to all the representatives of the Südtiroler Volkspartei and the German minority but there are also other minorities and there is a need in this country to finally be able to give answers. The same issue, Mr President, concerns the other minority. We will deal with it with due attention when we also deal with draft law No 881, but we could not fail to recall in the Constitution, in the face of the reduction in the number of Members, the problem of minorities. Representation is one of the issues, so much so that in sentence No. 1 of 2014 of the Constitutional Court, which declared the so-called Porcellum unconstitutional - which you well know, President, because you were the author of it together with Senator Calderoli - is strongly referred to the duty to avoid, for the purposes of governability and other principles that are applied when it is legal, to strongly contract representation because the pluralism of representation is one of the cornerstones of the Constitution of parliamentary democracy. This is the amendment that I referred to, which obviously needs not to be dealt with in such a bureaucratic way and at the end of the sitting, and of course, Mr President, in the explanations of vote that we will be making tomorrow, we will produce other interesting arguments about it. The last issue concerns a very sensitive subject, which the rapporteur also addressed in his reply, concerning the election of the President of the Republic. It is clear that in that case too there is a problem, which is not a problem for someone; I understand that perhaps we are moving towards a federal state, but it is enough to say that because then your proposal for direct election of the President perhaps in a federal state would make more sense. However, with the reduction in the number of Members it is clear that the proportion changes: 58 out of 600 large regional voters become virtually 10% and this alters the balance. Therefore, the only thing we could do was, of course, reduce, with all the consequences of the case, the number of representatives of the regions. However, apart from the amendment itself, it is a question that I believe deserves to be examined in depth and to find solutions that cannot just be aimed at reconfirming the framework as it is. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u232	The remaining amendments are set out. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law. 20.19 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u233	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u234	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u235	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, with this speech, I would like to address something which concerns the University Hospital and the University of Tor Vergata. For a long time, both through parliamentary questions of the Movimento 5 Stars and through speeches in the Chamber by Mr Sileri, President of the 12th Commission, are attacked both the director of the University Policlinico and the University of Tor Vergata, which are put at the center of attention with a series of suspicions and complaints regarding alleged competition procedures and events occurred in the management of the University of Tor Vergata. I do not care to say whether or not there is a direct interest from my colleague Sileri, who has already been a university researcher in Tor Vergata, surgeon of the hospital's digestive system and linked to the university. At this stage I am not interested to say that in these five years the University of Tor Vergata has banned about 254 competitions for university professors, of which only three have been cancelled by administrative justice and promptly redone. At the same time is known the judicial case that sees accused the rector of the University Tor Vergata, Professor Giuseppe Novelli, against which is being carried out a trial also following interceptions of the same Senator Sileri. In view of this picture, allow me to say that I consider the attitude of the Movimento 5 Stars and of my colleague Sileri too reckless and unrespectful of the work of the judiciary, as well as of the goodness and credibility of the university itself called into question. Before requesting resignation or a strong signal of discontinuity, as we read in one of the questions before us, it would be more appropriate to wait for the outcome of the trial, because everyone must be allowed to defend himself in the trial, and you should all know that there must be a principle of autonomy of the judiciary in justice. As for the University Hospital Tor Vergata, I do not care to say that in these five years the university deficit has been reduced by 50 million; that it has gone from 5,000 to 9,000 the annual surgeries; that 7 million euros have been spent on the recruitment of the staff; that the qualities have been certified. What I am asking, Mr President (I am also asking President Sileri) is that the President of the Health Commission, if he really wants to clarify the issues that deserve most attention, exercises his parliamentary prerogatives, perhaps - and I hope so - by summoning the regional director of Tor Vergata to the hearing, thus also giving the other senators a more complete idea of the matter. I shall conclude, President. To continue to cast shadows, suspicions and discredit by striking incidentally also the university system through the press I would not want to respond to a precise strategy, which does not aim to make more clarity but to nourish excessive shadows and suspicions. I hope that Mr Sileri will respectfully accept my respectful invitation and that he will be able to act for greater clarity, including through appropriate parliamentary information procedures. It is necessary to restore the truth of the facts and not just the illations.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u236	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u237	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u238	Mr Pucciarelli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the sidelines of today's parliamentary work, I would like to draw the attention of this House to an event which I believe should be strongly stigmatised. On January 30, recently passed was the anniversary of the death of Pamela Mastropietro. It was a crime whose heinousness scandalized the whole country. Well, a year later, the mayor and municipal administration of Macerata did not consider it appropriate to provide for a public commemoration of Pamela. The principle of subsidiarity requires us full respect for the decision-making autonomy of the Macerata administration, but with regard to the content and decisions taken by the Municipality of Macerata, using that autonomy, it is legitimate, as well as necessary, to disagree and express a moral condemnation. A fundamental principle of the UN Convention on the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence is what a teenager - and at eighteen years of age still is - has the right to life, survival and development: exactly what with horrible ferocity was denied to Pamela Mastropietro. As if that were not enough, a few days ago the mayor of Macerata denied her the right to survive in the collective memory of the community that was the scene of her death. It's easy to see which party the mayor of Macerata belongs to, the same mayor who didn't judge the murderers but the girl's family, which I think is quite shameful. President, this case becomes emblematic of a way of thinking typical of the left: for them there are dead series A and dead series B. The only ones they want to remember are those who allow them to make propaganda, while those who have had the misfortune to die under politically incorrect circumstances are condemned to oblivion and forgetfulness. But we, President, must not forget. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u239	Senator Pucciarelli, allow me to fully associate myself with your words.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u240	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u241	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u242	CORBETTA (M5S). Mr President, every year in Italy we have 90,000 deaths caused by air pollution. The health effects are very serious and affect especially the weakest sections of the population, such as the elderly and children. Traffic is one of the main drivers of this dramatic emergency. It is estimated that around 600 deaths in Milan are due to the high levels of nitrogen oxides that are mainly emitted by diesel engines. Incisive action is needed to reduce private traffic and increase public transport. In this scenario, the innovations that are expected in the public transport of Milan are of fundamental importance and you cannot afford to miss. The tariff integration of local public transport - for which the territorial groups of the 5 Star Movement have collected thousands of signatures in recent years - would be good news, because it would allow citizens to move more easily between Milan and hinterland. On the other hand, the statements made by the mayor of Milan, Beppe Sala, of binding the extension of subway 5 in Monza to the increase of ATM tickets and subscriptions, the Milanese transport company, are bad news. First of all, those of the Monza metro and ATM fares are two separate issues and they must remain so. It is unacceptable for the Mayor Sala to cross over on the Monza subway, which he himself pushed until yesterday. It is a project that would alleviate huge traffic and pollution problems, which the territory has been waiting for decades and which our Government has financed with as much as EUR 900 million in the budget law. The increase in the urban ticket from 1.5 to 2 euros is a short-sighted choice, which discourages the use of public transport in the city, instead of facilitating it. Perhaps the mayor of Milan does not understand that public transport is not only an essential service for the citizens who use it, but it is also and above all a system of vital importance for the whole city. What would Milan be without metro, trams and buses? It would be chaos and we see it every time there is the strike of means. It is clear that the citizen taking public transport helps to limit traffic and pollution for the benefit of all. Those who take the subway and buses are also good for those who, by choice or by necessity, use the private car. Using public transport is therefore a virtuous choice, which a mayor should encourage and reward; even more so the mayor of the richest city in Italy should do so: increasing urban rates is a suicidal choice, which Milan cannot afford. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u243	I agree with your report, for a high speed Milan-Monza: this seems to me to have been the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u244	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-88.ana.u245	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday, February 7, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.30 p.m.
