ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12:01 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders approved the schedule of work after the summer break until 20 September. The ordinary activity of the Commissions will resume from Monday 2 September, without prejudice to the authorization to convene at any time in August in relation to the needs in matters within its competence. The Assembly will meet from Tuesday 10 September at 12.30 p.m. and will be discussed the following measures defined by the Commissions: draft law on the posting of the Municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio; from the drawing-up office, the draft law on the valorization of small food productions of local origin and on participations in dairy companies; the first Senate resolution on the constitutional bill concerning the repeal of CNEL; ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Affairs Commission; the drawing-up office, the draft law on the use of electrical means at airports and on safety for health professionals. The calendar of the week also includes the inspection union and, at 3 pm on Thursday 12 September, the question time. The week from 16 to 20 September will be dedicated to the work of the Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration to the program of the Senate's work for the months of July and August 2019: - Drawing of law n. 787 - Provisions for the replacement of vehicles and equipment powered by endothermic engines with vehicles and equipment with electric traction at the airports identified by Article 1, paragraph 3, of the regulation referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic 17 September 2015, n. 201 (from the drawing up office) - Drawing of law n. 867 - Provisions in the matter of safety for health professionals in the performance of their duties (from the writing office)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u6	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 20 September 2019. The ordinary activity of the Commissions will resume from Monday 2 September, without prejudice to the authorization to convene in August at any time in relation to the needs in matters within its competence. The Assembly will meet from Tuesday 10 September. [[Tuesday, 10 September 12,30-20 - Drawing of Law No. 1144 and related - Detachment of municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna region (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law No. 728 - Promotion of small food productions of local origin (from the drawing-house) - Drawing of Law No. 1110 - Participation in dairy companies (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (from the drawing-up-house) - Drawing of Constitutional Law No. 1124 - Repeal of constitutional provisions relating to the CNEL (first resolution of the Senate) - Ratification of international agreements defined by the Foreign Affairs Commission - Drawing of Law No. 787 - Electrical means in airport hubs (from the drawing-house) - Drawing of Law No. 867 - Safety for exhibitors of health professions (from the drawing-house) - Trade union inspection - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 12, 15 hours) Wednesday, 12, 12 "9,30-20-20 20 - Thursday, 12 "]] The week from 16 to 20 will be dedicated to the work of the Permanent Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u9	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business only in order to make the House adopted, which, during the Conference of Leaders, I proposed to vote again on today's calendar, because a letter has been sent to the ICON, which is now public, as it is out of the news agencies. This letter denounces as extremely problematic and at risk the measure that we are going to approve - or, at least, that the majority wants to approve - today, even fearing very important risks both on the prospect of independence of Italian sport and on the same Olympic Games, recently awarded. During the Conference of Leaders, the President, also at the top of the Rules of Procedure, said that a vote on the timetable could not be taken. Personally, however, as a leader of the Democratic Party, I would like to make the House aware of the fact that we have raised this issue, that we consider it a serious mistake and that we renew the call, if the majority forces so decide, to postpone this measure to September. It is not a decree-law: it would not fall the world and it would not change anything, but it would allow us, internationally, a more accurate treatment, a more detailed comparison and a more consistent agreement, which would save Italian sport. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u10	Senator Marcucci, I believe you anticipated a decision made by the President. I shall therefore just proceed with the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u11	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1374-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Granato, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u12	Mr President, I would briefly like to explain the changes made by the House to the text approved by the Senate at first reading on 24 July. In article 1, paragraph 2, paragraph 2-g, as regards the quota reserved for precarious, artistic and administrative staff in competitions, the Chamber has been restored the original version of the decree-law, modified at the first reading of the Senate, providing that, until December 31, 2021, the lyric-symphonic foundations, if they proceed to permanent recruitment of artistic and technical personnel and administrative staff, provide you with a maximum of 50% of the precarious places available through selective reserved procedures. The article 4-a, instead, bearing the plan of the MIUR for the adaptation of the fire regulations in the schools and extensions for schools and kindergartens, to the Chamber has been modified previewing: to paragraph 1, the issuing of a decree of the MIUR in agreement with the unified Conference, in order to define an extraordinary plan for the adaptation to the fire regulations in the schools; to paragraph 2, a deferred extension of the terms for the adaptation of fire-fighting buildings used for schools (from 31 December 2018 to 31 December 2021) and kindergartens (from 31 December 2018 to 31 December 2019), first unified to 31 December 2019; to paragraph 3 it is then previewed the issuing of a decree of the Ministry of Interior, in agreement with the MIUR, in order to define ad hoc measures to diminish the risks until the completion of the works for the adaptation to the fire regulations and differentiated deadlines of the terms for the completion of the stages of the work, however, by 31 December 2021 for the schools. The article 5-a, which instead concerns the funds for the statization of non-state music institutes and the academies of the fine non-state arts, has been modified to the Chamber providing, in paragraph 2, new cover for the greater resources allocated for the process of statization, drawing in part to the corresponding reduction of the resources no longer necessary of the course-competition for school leader banned in 2017, equal to 8,26 million euros for each of the years 2018 and 2019, and already destined to the fund of the good school. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The minority rapporteur, Senator Verducci, has requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u13	Mr President, the measure under discussion was examined by us in this House only a few days ago and the fact that it was amended by the House, after we were actually prevented from intervening at second reading here in the Senate, shows how right we were as a Democratic Party, as a minority, as opposition forces, to claim that there could be a debate on the substance. On the other hand, the fact that this could not happen, that the time has been absolutely compressed, that the examination in the Commission took place virtually behind the examination in this House, with an almost simultaneous overlap of the times of submission of the amendments, preventing a thorough work, says a lot of how the majority forces continuously understand parliamentary work as a continuous mortification of Parliament, with continuous evidence of force that then turns out to be counterproductive as in this case, so much so that the haste leads to macroscopic errors. The House had to intervene and we are here again today to deal with a decree-law that appears, from the political point of view, emblematic of how these forces understand culture in our country: not as something central, vital for our society, for the citizens, for the economic role it plays, but as something absolutely marginal, so we deal with it in an emerging way, tightening the times of discussion, without really that breath, that strategy that deserves this theme that we instead want to become central in our country. This lack of vision, strategy, project for culture and, in this case, for the show is a scar, for example, to a total art like lyrics, which holds together music, singing, acting, dance, writing, architecture, contemporary art and multimedia art, which is one with our history and which is the vehicle of the study of our language in the world, which is loved everywhere in the world because there are so many girls and boys who learn the Italian language, precisely through the study of lyrics and singing. It is a patrimony of absolute excellence that is treated by this Government and by this measure in a gruff and partial way, not up to the history of our country. This measure shows that a great opportunity has been lost, because what we carry with us is an absolutely urgent topic, that is to give an answer to the workers of the live entertainment sector and to overcome the precariousness that characterizes many, too many, among these workers and that weighs, therefore, the potentialities of this sector. The answer that gives this decree-law is, however, a merely emergent response: we intervene because otherwise in October the lyric-symphonic foundations would no longer have been able to function and many fixed-term workers would have lost their jobs, but the norm on stabilisations and competitions - certainly important, for which we are fighting - as contained in this decree, without a certain and continuous commitment of resources, risks being a monco commitment and betraying the enormous expectations existing in an area that, as I said, is so relevant to the cultural and economic life of our country. We have asked and would have liked to have dealt with this issue a lot earlier, because we have been aware of this emergency for at least a year, since the so-called Di Maio decree was passed, which constitutes a short circuit for this sector that risks increasing the precariousness of workers and putting them on the margins of the system. We would have liked it to be dealt with a year ago and to be done within that delegation on the live show that you, on the other hand, did not use. In that context we could have made, with this measure, this sector really a key sector for our country. Instead, continue to mold that delegation as a dead letter, when we should have made the opera sector a whole with the theme of cultural production, think of it in the context of contemporary music life, integrate it with that extraordinary heritage of theaters of tradition, representing culture, the spectacle spread over the territory, which entered this decree only by virtue of an amendment of the Democratic Party. We should have integrated it with the heritage of regional orchestras, the system of high education of academies and conservatives, which means the entry into the music system for so many girls and boys, for the new generations. Of all this there is no trace, confirming an instrumental approach by this Government, absolutely partial, insufficient. The measure, for example, leaves in indeterminate a fundamental theme, that of the private or public nature of foundations. This uncertainty, created by your Ministry of the Economy, risks blocking the theatres for fear of incurring sanctions and makes negotiation and productivity agreements difficult, as well as enormously complicated, for example, agreements with workers to go on tours. This uncertainty also risks being an obstacle to a fundamental issue for us, such as the absorption of historical precariousness. The risk is to close the foundations in ordinary activity, when instead we should allow them to carry out their mission, on which we spent the last parliamentary term, namely to increase and intensify production in order to allow foundations to compete internationally, because that is their role. Let me also, Mr President, point out another major issue that is unfortunately being dealt with badly in this measure: I am talking about support for the cinema and audiovisual sector. As with foundations, this is also a vital sector, even more and together for our culture and our economy. When I quote cinema and audiovisual, I call for the moral strength of our country, a ransom force in the years after the Second World War. Italy has returned to being great, even before for the economic boom, for the story and the power of the imagination of our cinema, which narrated a country that was rising again, starting from the weakest, their tenacity and their moral strength. The cinema has always accompanied us. We do not like that with this decree has lowered the mandatory threshold of transmission in the precious part of the television schedule for the cinema and the audiovisual of original Italian expression. To hit this means to do a commercial damage to our cinema, to hit the rights and the supply chain, beyond the strongly symbolic damage, because it means to break the link between the public and our cinema, which means made in Italy (the chain of Made in Italy) and tourism. In conclusion, Mr President, this is a great missed opportunity. On several occasions we have appealed to the Government and the majority forces to finally introduce into this decree a definition of an independent enterprise. We need to strengthen cinema and independent audiovisual, the whole so-called artistic chain, the one that is not mainstream. I therefore have to think, Mr President - and these are the conclusions of our minority report - that by doing so not only this is a missed opportunity, but will also be missed the opportunity to have a code for live entertainment. This opportunity, which we could all have taken together, is a further false step for all of us in this House, which we do not deserve and which do not deserve the workers in these sectors, who so long awaited this intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u14	I declare the general discussion open. Senator D'Arienzo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u15	Mr President, we have been questioning some of our colleagues - and I say this with respect to the members of the Government present in this House - about the absence of Minister Bonisoli, because we think that every act of reform, which changes the order of our country, deserves the presence of the Minister who proposes it. The fact that Mr Bonisoli is not here at this time is a bad thing for us, which we condemn, partly because I would have had the opportunity, on behalf of the Group, to have a chat with the one who dealt with the reform only in part. We are convinced that dealing only with the topics envisaged in this act is not enough. I say this out of personal experience: having been public administrator in the city and province of Verona, I have seen what are the deleterious parts of the current legislation in force on lyric-symphonic foundations. These are critical issues that I want to repeat today, because they are everyone's heritage and to make it clear that we are facing a reform of the system that is not overall, and on which we will probably have to put our hands back. I have already said this before and I repeat this on this occasion: consider the Minister, the Undersecretary and the Government the need to rethink the parameters of the so-called Bray law, because, if the act of delegation has a duration of about two years, as is known, in December 2019 (i.e. at the end of this year) will expire the so-called benefits of this law, which many sacrifices has produced in the Italian lyrical-symphonic foundations. I would remind everyone that today there are nine people who have joined his predictions: it would be resounding if, in the face of an act of reform, we continue with the difficulties they have encountered. But what are the parts that this reform does not deal with? Among the main problems, dealt with in part by the Government's proposal, but not in a decisive way, the first is related to the reform made in 1996, with the transformation of the lyric institutions into foundations under private law, which has caused two very important critical issues. The first is the presence of politics in an important way in the organization chart of foundations, at a time when, as is known, the mayor is the chairman of the governing board. This choice - I speak on the basis of my experience in the Arena Foundation of Verona, even if it does not turn out to me in other realities, but it is a paradox that has been highlighted - it has made so that, in a given juncture, they have been appointed superintendents who had nothing to do with the world of lyrical-symphonic foundations or culture and the quality of cultural offering. This has caused very serious repercussions on the Foundation. The second is equally important and I mentioned it also in a previous general discussion, Mr President: a rich and dynamic territory such as the Province of Verona receives from the Arena Foundation (according to the calculations made by the University of Verona) an induced of about 400 million euros for each opera season of Arena, known - as you know - all over the world; yet the economic and financial participation of the economic world that benefits from this induced is little more than one million euros, that is an infinitesimal figure. At the time when, in 1996, a significant presence of the city's capital was imagined within the foundations and an economic and entrepreneurial incentive that could give strength to the lyric-symphonic foundations, I can say, on the basis of the experience lived in the case of the Arena Foundation, that these two pillars have completely failed. It would have been appropriate, since we wanted to deal with lyrical-symphonic foundations, to put our hands on that reform, to transform it. Now we have reached the paradox - I also see it in the cultural input of this proposal - that cost analysis must prevail over cultural offering. As you know, this is not 100% possible. We have reached the paradox, always in the Arena Foundation of Verona, that for this reason and for the same reason a superintendent and a general manager were appointed attentive to the accounts. Where's the paradox? It is not addressed, although we are talking about the revision of the Single Show Fund, and it is the fact that money is received according to the cultural offer (and you know what the three requirements of the Single Show Fund are). If, however, I cannot invest, because my Director-General gives me fleas on all accounts, the quality of the offer cannot be up to the level, the public will not come to see the shows and the investments will not be consequent. Because of this vicious circle, then, I will take less money from the Single Fund for the show. This paradox should have been resolved at the time when the Minister felt he was bringing about revisions and changes to the current legislation, but that was not the case. We continue with the negativity: the theatres that host a greater audience, due to their larger dimensions, such as the Amphitheatre of Verona, the Petruzzelli theater or the Carlo Felice, will receive less funds; consequently, they will be able to offer a lower quality, because of the accounting criterion behind the expenses for culture, and, with the lesser audience, will affect everyone on the Single Fund for the show. I hope that in the revision promised in the act of delegation this criterion will be used to reward at least the great foundations, which must manage theatrical seasons such as that of the enormous Arena of Verona. Another paradox that will create the measure is the maximum duration of forty-eight months for fixed-term contracts. I do not know the other foundations, but it is likely that in the agreement between the management and the trade union parties they have found a positive synthesis for most of the extras of the Arena season, which are hundreds and hundreds and thanks to which it can be realized. For the winter season, however, in the philharmonic theatre - but I think others have the same problem - there are about thirty people (between choir, orchestra and technicians) that fall within the type we are talking about. As soon as the measure enters into force, there will be about thirty experienced people, who have been working for years in important structures such as the choir and the orchestra or as technicians who will no longer be able to see the contract renewed. I can reasonably assume that the winter season at the Philharmonic Theatre, as in other theaters of Italy, will be affected and conditioned by the provision. To me it seems a useless penalty, in particular for the larger lyric-symphonic foundations, like those of the specific case, but I think the speech also applies to the other theaters. The issues that should have been addressed were still others compared to those included in the delegation. There are positive aspects, which I said earlier, such as the identification of means of access to credit facilitated, the pacts between the foundations of the territory and the revision of the criteria of the FUS. We hope that at least these can lift the system of lyric-symphonic foundations from criticalities dictated not by the quality of the cultural offer, but by a norm that casts the sector. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u16	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u17	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u18	Mr President, we are pleased that some flashes have started from the Democratic Party, reminding the precarious people of the opera world who put them in a position to remain such for life and who, by means of this measure, has worked to regulate their stabilisation. [[Comments of Senator Malpezzi]] Not everything that has been said is correct, because the last point refers to the text of the provision that had not yet been amended by the Senate: the months now are no longer forty-eight, but thirty-six, starting from 1 July. We have therefore remedied the mistakes of so many years of bad management and perhaps it has forgotten that the commissioning of foundations has been wanted by the management Franceschini, which has gone from the scaling of the organic plant, from the proliferation of fixed-term contracts, from the dismissal of many artists, choirs and orchestras to the annulment of entire bodies of dance. Thanks to this decree, we have marked a reversal of trend, although, unfortunately, for constitutional vulnus we have not managed to maintain the quota reserved for the precarious that we would have liked. We tried to intervene to remedy a vulnus of years. In the meantime, thanks to the action of this Government, there has been an embarrassment to the precariousness created and favored by the actions of the Executives plaqued PD. We are therefore satisfied with what we have been able to do for now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u19	Mr President, in fact, I have to say that the failure and therefore the risk of this decree-law being counterproductive and a hole in the water are precisely in the words just spoken by the rapporteur, Mrs Granato. This risk is evidenced by the fact that this Government has to intervene hastily. The Senator Granato could not actually deny my intervention and could not deny that the need to intervene to avoid the abyss for the lyric-symphonic foundations, also and especially for the workers, is due to the short circuit generated by the introduction of the so-called decree Di Maio on work. This measure brings with it a huge risk, which many workers have unfortunately experienced in the past months, that is to say, that their employment has ceased. In the face of this risk there is today's intervention, an intervention that served different, I want to reiterate it in the name of a political force, ours, that has fought and fights for stabilisations, but when they have a real and concrete meaning, and not when they risk being norms-propaganda and a mockery, as in this case, in the absolute absence of resources and certainties. Culture, in fact, is a sector that lives when there can be certain and continuous resources to be able to program over time, and not instead, as you do, wasting and letting slip over time huge opportunities, such as - I have to say again - that of the code for the show, the delegation for the show that you have ignored guiltfully, proving to consider it as an absolutely marginal sector. Mr President, even for the debate that was held yesterday, we know how much in the field of culture investment - which in a little more than a year of government you have completely disappeared - would be necessary to strengthen the sense of community and the social hold of a country that you, on the other hand, want increasingly divided and increasingly fragmented. It is culture that builds civitas, builds communities and protagonism especially of the new generations; it is culture that builds social sense, belonging and mutual respect. Every day you muddle this belonging to our community by burning, continuously causing divisions. We have said a motto that we believe does not belong to a single party, but can belong to an entire political class, to an entire republican class: we invest in culture to invest in security. That's not a party motto. When he closes a theatre in a city, especially in a suburban neighborhood where isolation is stronger, where it is more difficult to live and be recognized, it is a wound to our ability to be together that does not remarge; it is a wound to integration and inclusion - which make security - that does not remarge. And then, President - I mean - these are also huge blows to the economic potential of our country because culture, and in particular the show - we mentioned the lyrics, we mentioned the cinema - are first of all economic strength, strengths for the economy of our country: they mean gross domestic product, they mean work because they generate a lot of work. In a time and in a society in which, on the other hand, there are walls that prevent many, especially the youngest, who want to make culture, who want to make cinemas, from putting into play, well, Mr President, this decree-emergency law, gruffed up, that you have been forced to launch - and perhaps not even wanted - not only will it not help to break down those walls, but rather it will lift them enormously, especially for the youngest ones, for independent productions. I would have expected from you, Senator Grenato, Senator Russo, for example, the commitment, which we could subscribe to together, and which is missing in this measure - another negative element - to strengthen those selective contributions for the first and second works in cinema that, as we know, are the most difficult for an author, especially for a young author. This is not and for this reason - believe me, President, colleagues, reluctantly - we must point out that this decree-law is a huge lost opportunity and contains in reality a wrong idea of culture, a wrong idea of country that mortifies culture, our country and above all so many potentialities, so many unexpressed energies that with this measure not liberated, but rather continue to mortify. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u20	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, declares amendment 1.1, which has already been declared inadmissible in the Commission, as it is not directly related to the changes introduced by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u21	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u22	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u23	Let us move on to Amendment No 4 -bis.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4 -bis.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u26	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the return of the draft law to the third examination, with a few minor changes, obviously does not change our orientation and our judgment on the decree-law. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u27	I always make the usual request: if we leave the Chamber, let us do so by allowing those who are talking to continue their speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u28	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). The purpose of the decree-law, at least the one declared, was absolutely acceptable as far as we are concerned, that is to try to create a virtuous system of management of personnel dependent on lyric-symphonic foundations, an area in which there is a precariousness that has consolidated of the time is that it is particularly serious, it had been tried several times, even in the last legislature, to make suitable proposals to address this problem. The regulatory intervention - as had been announced - was aimed at solving the problem of precariousness through the stabilization of many precarious, also in implementation of the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 25 October 2018. However, this has obviously not been achieved in a happy way, because we do not arrive at the stabilisation of the precariousness, as had been announced and as the majority rapporteur in reply continues to say today, and it has not happened for a number of reasons. First of all, in our view, the decline of the right of precedence cannot be accepted: it is an unfair rule, which unfairly affects precisely the most historical precarious ones, which are therefore seen in this way provided for. On the whole, therefore, we do not tackle to the full and we do not solve the problem of precariousness but we risk feeding a kind of war between the poor, contrasting new and old precarious. Moreover, it is precisely those interventions of quality protection that are proclaimed that are contradicted. In one part of the theaters will begin to stabilize, but others will not be able to do it, precisely for the mechanism present in the decree-law, and the risk, conditioning the organic endowments to sustainability, is that someone will be stabilized but many others will not. Some workers will settle down, but the dancing bodies, for example, which are also the weakest, will continue to be precarious. Even in orchestras there is a risk of covering only a part of the available seats. Not to mention the technicians, so we have a very serious problem of shortcomings. The issue of administration has not been resolved either. The fundamental problem, once again, is that of resources, but without an adequate investment - which is not present in the decree-law - we can certainly not talk about a process of serious stabilisation and closure of the precarious season. Furthermore, the status of lyric-symphonic foundations workers is not to be clarified once again, whereas it would have been necessary to define once and for all whether they are public or private, because, as the norm is written, this ambivalence continues to be fostered. These were therefore the positive intentions of the decree-law, that is to close the season of the precarious to arrive to stabilize the field, but the objective - as we have seen - has not been adequately achieved. Another very serious problem concerns the issue, which in our opinion even takes a step back from the decree Franceschini, concerning the selection and dissemination of all Italian and European works of expression, also concerning the issues inherent in the providers of services and audiovisual media. In this case, there is indeed a step backwards, because we are going back to 2020 - if not 2021 - the entry into force of the crucial steps with regard to the different roofs. In order to give the idea, the four paragraphs of Article 3 are a sequence of further references; even the preliminary opinion of the parliamentary committees is deleted. In addition, a component of selective contributions is linked to the economic impact of the project. In short, the Minister, after having embraced the commitment to carry on the works of Italian value, in reality, in this way, takes a step back in our opinion. Article 44 of Legislative Decree No. 177 of 2005 had been correctly reported in 2017, with the rule that had raised and made the thresholds more binding, with a proper attention to the original Italian works of expression, the most recent repertoire, through the services play and on demand, therefore also through the compulsory dissemination in the hours of greater listening. This is also being called into question. Then there is the question of nominal tickets, on which we had asked for an extension. Again, we have not realized the problems that will arise. I repeat that the objectives of the decree-law itself have not been - alas - achieved, in particular with regard to the question of the stabilization of employees of lyrical-symphonic foundations. This is certainly a very questionable point for us. On the other points we would certainly have liked much more courage and not that some steps were taken back with regard to the production and dissemination of works. For all these reasons, we confirm, as in the course of the second examination, our abstention vote. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u31	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, at first reading at the Senate, the only Group voted against this measure, because we thought that the expectations we had set ourselves in government action had been disappointed, as illustrated by the Minister during the first hearing in Joint Commissions, when the Government was established. All we can do is reiterate what is, in our opinion, the criticalities of the measure. Moreover, after only ten days, after working in the Commission, we are moved by a contingency of time - except then to verify the changes that have been made to the Chamber of Deputies - to have to work again in the Senate with the same pressure for the expiry of the date of conversion of the decree-law and our summer break. We believe that the measure betrays our commitments and aspirations in terms of stabilising the precariousness of lyrical-symphonic foundations. We have tried constructively, as is our custom, to improve the measure with a number of amendments, but we have achieved very little availability and we deeply regret this. Just as we fought to correct or give an opportunity for further reflection on the application on the issue of titles names that will certainly create serious inconveniences and damages to the sector, users and operators. We have already verified it in many events where, at the event started, there was still a mileage line at the gates precisely for the application of this provision from 1 July 2019. Of course, our political criticism is general with regard to the establishment of the measure because, in our view, there is no overall view of culture. We hope that in the course of the government's work a whole series of issues can be put in hand to really give the sense of a true, comprehensive and organic reform. However, we must stress that this measure does not end with the tradition of the past, and not only with regard to the stabilisation of precarious people. It seems to us that there is also a weakness in the philosophy of intervention and in the role of politics in relation to the management of processes, with an abdication in favour of the technoburocracies of the Ministry that we are also verifying in other acts. Moreover, it is not put hand to the overall scabrosa of the mismanagement of lyrical-symphonic foundations with a debt burden that is now unsustainable. It does not seem to us that, in relation to this aspect, there are stakes and interventions to put an embankment and make definitive choices compared to those who have already shown that they are not able to govern such foundations, which are of the highest material and immaterial importance for what they represent in terms of the expression of our national culture. I said this already in the previous speech: opera and cinema are the witnesses of our national identity and for Brothers of Italy, which is an authentically sovereignist party, this is of fundamental importance. As well as, Minister, we want to welcome in a positive way some changes that have been made to the House of Deputies, even as a demonstration that it could already be done in the Senate, but we want to allow more time, in the hope that the Government will be able to put in hand the issues we have pointed out during the hearings and in the course of this year's political activity. You will return, as already announced, to be auditioned in the Commissions in early September and certainly we will return to office with the battles we have married, in the hope that for the future we can deny this attitude and approach that seems approximate and wrong to us and disavow a certain attitude of sufficiency towards the world of culture that reminds us a little 'with facts that statement, in my opinion absolutely unhappy, according to which culture does not eat. Instead, we believe that culture is a moral work that helps us to live. Therefore I announce the abstention vote of the Brothers of Italy Group to the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No. 59 of 2019. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u34	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, we are a little surprised, because we were told that this measure would come out of the blocked Senate and that there was an incredible rush, even in the organisation of the hearings. They made us work super-fast and super-fast, saying that there was no time and that it was an impressive urgency measure, yet we are now facing a third examination of it. Mr President, this is because of the inability of the majority. I would be happy to be here, in this House, to deal with a third examination arising from changes made by the other branch of Parliament to improve the measure; instead, the changes that we are having to discuss here today arise from errors of the majority and, above all, on issues that had already been tabled and voted by the majority even with the support of oppositions. The first question is almost silent, but it is important. We have listened earlier to the speech by the rapporteur, Senator Granato, who recalls how good colleagues in the majority are towards the precarious. Mr President, you know, however, that the rule arrived at the Senate at first reading provided that the recruitment of cultural workers should take place for 50% of the competition and 50% of the other to give stability to those who have been working in the sector for years. In the Commission, however, thanks to an amendment by the rapporteur, Mrs Granato, who was not rapporteur for the measure at the time, supported by the rapporteur two weeks ago and by all of us, the quota for precarious persons had increased to 70%. We know in fact the peculiarity of the workers in this sector and you know it too, that within the measure you have asked for a derogation from the decree dignity for these workers, shifting the time limit from twenty-four to thirty-six months. You did so and we were all in agreement (and I would like to reiterate Senator Verducci's speech in this regard, to point out how we worked within the Commission), but the measure comes to the House of Deputies and goes back, correct, as in the original text, with a proportion of 50-50. So for the precarious one does not even make an extra effort. [[Applause from the PD Group]] What are we talking about then? Do we also have to applaud you, ladies and gentlemen? We must constantly be told that we are the ones who have left the workers in precariousness. No, we're the ones who set up the system, so much so that you repeat the system: if you didn't like that system, you would have had to disassemble it. Where did you change him? Where did you reset the question of lyric-symphonic foundations? Where did you change it by putting money in it? Let us talk about accounts: we have put EUR 160 million into it. Mrs Grenato, how long did it take you in this measure? Zero, Mr. President! Zero! [[Applause from the PD Group]] I believe that those who govern have the power to change all the choices made by those who have ruled before and have the duty to improve everything that those who have governed before have done, but have the courage to do so, because here there is even no courage. We are faced with a decree-law that has absolutely added nothing, but has settled. The reason why we will abstain - as we did at the first reading of the Senate, when we moved to the Chamber of Deputies and how we do it again here - is because, of course, we agree on rules that seek to settle further and put the system in place, but there is no proposal for a vision for the future. On the contrary, everything is even entrusted, on the basis of three-year checks, even where you thought you could include, perhaps in the future, some additional resources. It's all devolved. In a year of government you did not even want to assume the responsibility of making a choice that was one in the field of culture. On the contrary, you did one: you decided that the 18-year-old bonus should be reduced, even if you do not like the term "reduction" and you continue to deny it. You prefer to say that it is not true that you have cut down on culture: you have beside the resources. You no longer use them for those interventions, but you have not intended them for other voices, but you have put them aside. But culture needs money today! In fact, they were needed yesterday! It would have been sufficient for you to have foreseen the amount of investment that we had allocated. I wonder why I cannot hear Mr Bonisoli call on Mr Tria to give money for this sector. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Because then we all make ourselves beautiful, with a wide mouth, saying that Italy has the greatest heritage, that the lyric-symphonic foundations are those that spread the Italian language in the world and that we must protect them and we must be proud of them. But besides being proud, put the money in it! That's what it takes. Make your investments, Minister. Make the investments! Instead, zero. Not only that: we are here in the third exam for a change that, moreover, I repeat, seemed right to us in the version in which we voted here in the Senate. Also because, within the Bonisoli decree, which I do not even feel, at this point, to call culture "decree," has been inserted - as a case may be - for the third time a forecast regarding the extension of the fire regulations in schools. Mr. Minister, what's that got to do with anything? What's that got to do with anything? You put it in the first milleproroghe and also in the second milleproroghe. This means that since then, six months ago, you have not been able to create a system action even in that sector that has nothing to do with culture. On the other hand, you have decided to include a measure in this matter within a decree which, evidently, does not speak of culture, because you are the first to act in this way. So what did you do? You have re-introduced the further fire extension for schools. And you even wrote it wrong, so much so that you're sending it back, again, to the Senate. You foresee rules that have nothing to do with the decree-law, wrong to write them, you rush us into auditions on lyric-symphonic foundations, cinema, entertainment, live music and secondary ticketing. I mean, you put in place an acceleration and then we go back to work because of you, who are wrong to write the rules. And do not tell us that it is always the fault of the Budget Commission, because your poor President Pesco will also be tired of assuming on his shoulders the responsibility of those who, on the other hand, cannot even make politics because he cannot write a decree that really speaks of culture. We have also been a little tired, because we have tried in every way in recent months to maintain a civil attitude within the Commission, an attitude of cooperation, an attitude always on the merits of any intervention, even at the cost of being puffed out by colleagues who miserably bear the fact that a member of the opposition can make a long speech in the Commission to explain their motives: because there is a hurry; because we are wasting your time; because it is a decree and, therefore, it expires. Except, then, to ask us to be here in this House and in the Commission to work on your mistakes, to make up for your mistakes, your inability, your complete lack of vision. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That's what you keep asking. And we, once again, try seriously to tackle this issue. Yesterday too, in the Commission, in the short time we were given, we wanted to introduce ourselves by telling ourselves what our vision of culture is, to try to give you suggestions, to try to see if we can build something together. If I were in the position of the Minister, in fact, I would be somewhat ashamed: after a year of government I carry my first and only measure in the Chamber and in it there is no talk of culture. Nor is there any faint news of the measure that I am approving. Around there is silence and, even, they leave it alone at the benches of the government to face this discussion. But, then, is the culture of this yellow-green majority interested or not? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Do you have a vision? Do you come to tell us or do we still have to expect some action, which will then turn out to be wrong and for which you will ask the oppositions to help you correct it? That is why, Mr President, we will continue to abstain. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u37	PITTONI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 59 of 2019 came back to the Senate in its third examination after the changes made by the House of Deputies. As we know, the other branch of Parliament has first amended paragraph 2-g of Article 1; this provision provides that, until 31 December 2021, lyric-symphonic foundations, where they are engaged in permanent recruitment of artistic and technical or administrative staff, provide, by way of derogation from the principle that the employment contract with them is established exclusively through public selective procedures, not exceeding 50% of the places available through selective procedures reserved for persons in possession of certain requirements, relating to previous employment activities at the same foundation. The Senate, at first reading, had replaced the maximum percentage of 50 percent with a rigid and higher quota of 70 percent. This change, which was made in the referent and confirmed by the Senate Assembly, had been proposed with an amendment of the majority shared by the Government and on which the consent of the opposition forces had also been recorded. On this point, the House restored the original text of the decree-law in the light of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The article 4-a, introduced to the Senate, deals with the adaptation to the fire regulations of school buildings. It is a matter for all of us well known, which has been tried several times to remedy by tabling amendments in the Senate to various emergency measures (later not adopted), and - finally - a draft law assigned to the 7th Commission in the deliberating session, bearing witness in this case too to a general sharing by the parliamentary groups. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This rule has also been amended by the Chamber of Deputies, referring to a decree of the Minister of Education, University and Research, in agreement with the Unified Conference, the definition of an extraordinary plan for the adaptation to the fire regulations of public buildings used for school use; for the implementation of the extraordinary plan in question are allocated 25 million euros for the year 2019, 25 million euros for the year 2020 and 48 million euros for the year 2021. The Chamber of Deputies has also entrusted to a decree of the Minister of the Interior, in agreement with the Minister of Education, University and Research, the definition of management measures of risk mitigation, to be observed until the completion of the adaptation work, and differentiated deadlines for the completion of the adaptation work to successive stages, subject to the end of 31 December 2021. Finally, the Chamber has also amended article 5-a, a rule that was introduced during the examination in the Senate and that concerns the ongoing process relating to the statization of non-state music institutes and the academies of non-state fine arts financed by local authorities. This provision is of great importance to the institutions in question, since the situation of failure or pre-dissement of some local authorities was likely to affect the lives of some institutions and academies of fine arts supported by the local authorities themselves, which would have blamelessly paid a high price for the financial situation of the local authority. In order to avoid this danger, it is expected that the State will make available a fund, up to the limit of EUR 4 million for 2019. The House of Deputies intervened on the burden-covering, following the opinion of the Budget Committee of that branch of Parliament. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The decree-law as a whole, also taking into account the changes made by the House, is therefore an important measure, on which I announce the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u40	CANGINI (FI-BP). Mr President, illustrious members of the Government, my fellow senators, when we were told that the Bonisoli Decree-Law was going back to the House, I had a movement of hope: I thought that we had realized the enormous shortcomings that this measure presents and that we have explained extensively last week and that it had been addressed. The illusion was that there would be something substantial, resources and reform regarding lyric-symphonic foundations. The illusion was about the world of cinema, an important part of our industry and our national identity. The hope was that it would be possible to define more clearly the relationship between digital platforms and national creativity, a relationship today with all the evidence unbalanced in favour of digital platforms. The hope was that we would take care, for example, to find the resources to restore the dancing bodies within the lyrical-symphonic foundations, in a historical era in which the dance attracts the attention and daily practice of thousands of our fellow countrymen. Hope was about the issue of the secondary ticket: we have spoken in this House and we are going back to the absurdity of the nominal ticket, which poses a wrong solution to a real problem, that of bagaraggio on the occasion of the shows and concerts. None of this, it is simply a matter of putting into a decree that deals with the two cornerstones, the two architraves of our culture, which are probably also two of the main reasons why Italy is known in the world, that is, lyrics and cinema, something that has nothing to do with this decree, that is, the adaptation to the fire regulations of the schools. If there was a need for an empirical demonstration of how little culture is at the heart of this Government and how little this Government is concerned about investing resources in the world of culture, we have the proof today in this House. The resources - said several colleagues of the oppositions before me, but it is a fact and I repeat it too - there are not, not a euro has been allocated for these sectors although fundamental of our civil life and invest in these sectors thanks to which Italy is known in the world, it means investing in tourism and made in Italy and feeding the reasons why Italian prestige is still, despite everything, consolidated and strengthened in the world. I recalled in my previous speech last week how much and to what extent France, a country that does not qualify as sovereignist, but that unquestionably, with all the antipathy that we can have for the current French President, has a strong sense of self and the State, regardless of who - more or less casually - holds the functions of government, invests for example in cinema: four billion every year. Macron has found a way to allocate more than 250 million made available to companies that produce French films to make acquisitions abroad and has done so because it is clear to him that cinema was and remains an extraordinary vehicle of national identity and an extraordinary accelerator of national interest, interest that you obviously use to perform but to which, unfortunately, you do not match any practice of Government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We can only bitterly acknowledge the fact that for you this is not a decree aimed at leveraging on the key sectors of our culture and at manifesting a vision of the cultural policy of this country, but it is an omnibus decree in which to put what, more or less casually, it is necessary to insert having no other measures in which to introduce norms, moreover wrong, that you yourself had written and also bad. We can, therefore, only confirm our abstention vote, even in this case regretted because this is yet another missed opportunity on the part of this Government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u43	DE LUCIA (M5S). Mr President, he then returned to the Senate for the third reading examination of Decree No 1374, so-called cultural decree. The amendments have been well illustrated by my colleague Mr Granato, so I will not dwell on the changes made to the House of Deputies, although not very significant. I am pleased to point out, however, that the new vision of Movimento 5 Stars on lyrical-symphonic foundations will soon be seen, with the law of delegation for live performance, within which there will of course be many funding for culture and many will also be in the next financial law. The one in conversion today, in fact, is a decree having the character of urgency, aimed at resolving the situation of a reasonable number of precarious persons, who even risked dismissal, so we had to proceed quickly. I repeat, there was someone risking work in the lyrical-symphonic foundations, against which we have been accused of non-compliance, us who have been in the government for just over a year. Hearing about non-compliance really hurts me, because we are dealing with decades of non-compliance. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The measure under consideration is launching a stabilisation process, which will certainly not stop, as I said earlier: the Movimento 5 Stars will not stop here. This is only a departure, only a start to the interventions in the field of culture, in which the Movement believes very much, not a little. He's investing a lot and we're studying. We are constantly auditioning and we have also done so many for the lyric-symphonic foundations; so it will also be for the live show. We will certainly not lack attention for culture, contrary to what we have been accused of doing in recent months. Since I want to be brief, I conclude by saying that we are convinced of this decree: we do not need to motivate anyone, because we know what we have done. I would just like to stress that culture has always been at the root of civitas and not just for a year, so I really cannot understand when it is constantly said that we are not interested in what happens in the world of culture. Civitas is the basis of our very existence here, so we must always and forcefully emphasize our ability to intervene in the cultural sphere. In almost all the recent interventions that we of the Movimento 5 Stars have made there has been a recurring word, a sort of leitmotiv: the word courage. We are having the courage to really change things and, whether we are recognized or not, we are not interested. We put the courage of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, Mr President, I am voting in favour of Movimento 5 Stars on this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u44	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u45	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1372, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Barbaro, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, draft law No 1372, which is a government initiative and approved by the House of Deputies, which is linked to the 2019 Budget Act, gives delegations to the Government and brings further provisions on sports law. It stems from the excerpt from the President of the House of certain provisions of the bill originally proposed by the Government (Room Act 1603); the other provisions removed were the subject of a separate bill, containing provisions for the fight against violence at sporting events, whose examination at the Justice Commission in the Chamber of Deputies ended on 18 July 2019 and which have now merged into the decree-law on public order and security approved yesterday by the Senate. The bill consists of ten articles organized in four chapters. Chapter I, composed of Articles 1 to 4, contains provisions on sports regulations. In particular, Article 1 delegates to the Government for the reordering of the National Olympic Committee and the sector discipline. Among the principles and guiding criteria of the delegation of memory: the definition of the areas of activity of the CONI, the national sports federations, the associated sports disciplines, the sports promotion agencies, the military sports groups, the civil bodies of the State and the associations benemerite, in coherence both with the novelties introduced by article 1, paragraph 630, of the law n. 145 of 2018 (which, among other things, entrusted to Sport and Salute SpA the task of financing the sports organizations), and with the role proper of the CONI as the governing body of the Olympic activity; the confirmation of the attribution to the CONI, in accordance with the provisions of the Olympic Charter, of the mission to encourage and disseminate the principles and values of the Olimpism, in harmony with the international sports organization (letter e)); the provision of limitations and constraints, including the possibility of placing its ban on the betting on the football matches of the societies that play in the championships of the National League of amateurs; the provision that the CONI exercises supervisory powers on the sporting activities of the national sports federations, the associated sports disciplines, the associations of the associations of the sports promotional associations and associations of the associations of the associations of the associations of the sport. Without prejudice to the autonomy of the sports federations and associated sports disciplines and their ability to determine their general policy, the CONI is also given the power to commission national sports federations and associated sports disciplines, in the case of serious violations of the rules of the statutes and regulations (point (g)). Article 2 introduces measures relating to school sports centres, with the aim of organising and developing the practice of sport activities in school institutions. Schools of any order and grade shall be entitled to set up a sports centre whose activities, governed by regulations approved by the school, are the subject of programming by the school council. Article 3 lays down the rules on the transfer, transfer or award of the sporting title, defined as all the conditions for the participation of a sports club in a given national competition. Article 4 introduces the obligation, for the constituent acts of professional sports clubs, to provide for the establishment of an advisory body to protect the interests of fans through the expression of mandatory but non-binding opinions on matters of interest to them. Chapter II, composed of Articles 5 and 6, deals with sports professions. Article 5 delegates to the Government for the reorganization and reform of the provisions on professional and amateur sports bodies, as well as the sports employment relationship. Between the principles and guiding criteria of the signal delegation: the recognition of the social and preventive-sanitary character of the sport activity; the recognition of the principles of specificity of the sport and the sport work relationship; the identification of the figure of the sports worker, including the figure of the race director. Article 6 delegates to the Government for the reordering of the provisions on relations of representation of athletes and sports clubs and for the access and exercise of the profession of sports agent. Chapter III, composed of Articles 7 to 9, sets out provisions for simplification and security in the field of sport. Article 7 delegates to the Government for the reorganization and reform of the safety rules for the construction and operation of sports facilities, as well as the rules for the construction of new sports facilities, the renovation and restoration of existing ones, including school ones. Article 8 confers delegation to the Government for the reordering of the legislative provisions relating to the administrative and accounting compliances and burdens to the national sports federations, the associated sports disciplines, the sports promotion agencies, the associations benemerite and their affiliates recognized by the CONI. Article 9 delegates to the Government for the adoption of one or more legislative decrees on safety in winter sports in order to ensure higher levels of safety. Chapter IV, made up of Article 10 alone, sets out the final provisions. Allow me to add a few notes, hoping to remain within the time allocated to me because I believe that it is necessary, beyond the technical report, to introduce further elements of reflection in relation to the notary reading of the article. Let's start from the ratio that inspired this reform, which was born from the financial of 2018 that introduced important innovations in the Italian sports organization and that has redesigned the figure and role of the CONI and, in fact, has also upset the layouts and the panorama of the Italian sports organization. Wrong does not mean not having improved them, but I will return to this. We have been accustomed for years to live a sports system interpreted and managed by the CONI, carrying on only logics of competitive character, but this has not produced within our country the formation of a sport culture that, instead, would have favored the development of the sport to 360 degrees, especially under the sanitary and formative meanings that the new Government has intended to insert within the reform and later within the measure that goes to detail some aspects. In particular, the question that the Italian Government has asked itself is the following: the CONI is the sport, but the Italian sport is only the CONI? Therefore, in going to redesign the layouts the Government wanted to reappropriate some of the skills of direction of the world of sport, which surely had been wrongly attributed to the CONI over the years. From this point of view, the debate was focused almost exclusively on the role of the ICON. Legally, I too have expressed some concerns about this, but this has resulted, in my opinion, ingenious in relation to the consequences of the reform. Firstly, I am referring to the financing of Italian sport, which has been pegged to 32% of the tax revenue generated by sport and which has already produced 60 million more since this year. This already seems to me a remarkable result, which has improved the operation of the Italian sports car, which up to now was instead a fixed financing by the State of 420 million, which represent the figure below which one must not go because, in any case, 32% can only be in excess and not in default. The debate, however, has naively hidden the other peculiarities of the measure that we are examining - on the CONI I will return later - and which concern a series of novelties introduced within this legislative measure and which pass through some important innovations, which also commit our schools thanks to the establishment of school sports centers. Above all, it has introduced important novelties regarding the judiciary aspects of sports work. It would be intellectually dishonest if I did not speak again in my role as rapporteur and the letter that was delivered today by the International Olympic Committee to the ICON. From this point of view, I feel deeply in line with the Government's intentions because, even within my agenda, the Government's commitment to harmonize any legislative process with the principles of the Olympic Charter and, in particular, Article 27 has been accepted. Finally, I should like to express a further reflection on the role of rapporteur that I have played; perhaps a role of stimulus towards my majority, but always within a civil context, an contradictory one and the ability of comparison that I have exercised both in the Commission and in my Group. From this point of view, I believe it is my duty to thank both the Government and Presidents Pittoni and Romeo, who have not only never ingested themselves in the dynamics that have characterized this path, but have continually renewed my confidence in the work I was carrying out. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You have to finish, Senator Barbaro. BARBARO, rapporteur. I am going to conclude, but I still have a few words to say because I care about it and I believe it is necessary to respect the role played by the opposition in this context. Beyond the classical liturgies that inspire behaviour both in this House and in the Commission, we have gone far beyond the dictates of the system; we have gone far beyond the events related to the adoption of agendas or, if you like, the rejection of all the amendments tabled. The proposed capacity, both majority and opposition, has been commendable and I am sure that the amendments and agendas, especially those adopted, will not remain dead letter in the work of drafting the delegations. On this wish I would like to conclude my speech by truly thanking everyone for their contribution. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u47	The minority rapporteur, Senator Sbrollini, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u48	I therefore call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday evening, the 7th Commission was very quick to examine and approve - and I should like to stress this in particular by looking at the Government - the draft law giving the Government powers in the field of sports law, without taking into account the many observations made by the audit staff in the Commission, nor the amendments tabled by the Democratic Party Group which, in part, accepted these comments and which were aimed at improving a measure which we consider to be very dangerous for the whole world of sport. I stress this because there has been no obstructive attitude. The haste - I repeat - has characterized the process of this measure; haste that the Group of the Democratic Party has already strongly denounced last week on the occasion of the vote on the calendar and that has as its sole reason to hand over to the undersecretary Giorgetti a delegation in white, bringing enormous damage to the basic sport and not - as is believed - to the great federations. As a delegation, we had thought - erroneously - that we could carry out an in-depth examination in the Commission and perhaps have the opportunity to raise many of the stakeholders; this possibility has been denied to us in view of the limited number of audit bodies, most of which, moreover, had already expressed great concern about this measure. This provision gives the Government more than ten potential legislative delegations. The purpose of the bill, which does not respect the Olympic Charter - if you want, I can deliver it to the Government, in case it has not read it - is exclusively to empty the CONI of its tasks and functions, to give it to the society Sport and Health in a completely indefinite and arbitrary way, leaving to the CONI a residual function, purely institutional and representative. (The sitting was suspended at 13.40 a.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 13.40 a.m. and resumed at 12.40 p.m.) To confirm this dangerous design, 378 million euros are allocated to "Sport and Health" while only 40 million euros remain to the CONI. Another point I would like to stress is that there is nothing in this measure about women's professionalism and just statements of principle on equal opportunities in sport. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is today, August 6, 2019 - I consider this also a very serious fact, since last night we were accused of being liars during the examination of the amendments - the letter of the IOC, also quoted by the rapporteur Barbaro, who wrote to President Malagò emphasizing the serious concern for the critical points of this delegation law, in particular on two aspects: Paragraph 5 - Of the fundamental principles of Olympism. Recognizing that sport is practised within the social fabric, sports organisations, which are members of the Olympic movement, must be politically neutral. I would like to stress this: 'politically neutral'. This bill of delegation gives Giorgetti a blank delegation on the world of sport: a very serious event never happened before. Continue the letter: They have the right and the obligation of autonomy, including the free determination and control of the rules of sport, the definition of the structure and governance of their organisations, the right to elections free from any external influence and the responsibility to ensure that the principles of good governance are applied. The other paragraph is the 7th, always on the fundamental principles of Olympicism, according to which membership of the Olympic movement requires respect for the Olympic Charter and recognition by the IOC. None of this is found in this measure, which, on the contrary, takes away autonomy from the world of sport, in clear contempt of these principles. Rather, unfortunately, our country is in danger of losing the Olympic Games and being sanctioned by the IOC, of even being excluded by this important international body. We have strongly reiterated the need to achieve a reform of the CONI in recent years, we have said this and we have already practiced it in the last legislature, when the Democratic Party was in the government of this country: we want a reform of sport, it is indispensable, but it is done if there is involvement and dialogue with all the stakeholders, considering it unthinkable that a reform of this importance is only the forcing of a parliamentary majority. Unfortunately, even last night, the attitude of the majority was not to listen, to lack of dialogue; and I am sorry to have to stress also the absolutely subordinate role of the Movimento 5 Star Group, which did not even speak on a single amendment. I'm really sorry, because we'd rather have had a conversation with everyone. This is the result of today: a measure that takes away autonomy from the world of sport, which should be one of the themes without political color, or at least until now it was in some way so. Unfortunately, however, this is the price that you must pay today of the 5 Star Movimento: deliver a delegation in white to the League, to the Undersecretary Giorgetti. I'm sorry to have to stress this, but you could do a sport reform together, without this haste; you didn't have to do it today, August 6th. We could have heard many people who were left out of the hearings; we could certainly have made a good law, taking into account how many important and delicate points we are going to touch. Unfortunately - I am sorry to have to stress this - this was your attitude. As far as we are concerned, therefore, our opinion is absolutely negative because it completely removes autonomy to a fundamental sport not only at national and international level but to the basic sport, that of the individual cities, our territories, which are fundamental in giving dignity to what is done and the growth of our boys and our girls. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u52	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would like to address the question referred under Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure on the measure before us. I am obliged to take up some of the concepts well explained by Senator Sbrollini, who highlight all our concern in the face of this bill. The Committee on Public Education, Cultural Heritage has examined and approved the draft law which delegates to the Government in the field of sports law, without taking any account of the comments made by the auditors in the Commission, without taking into account the amendments of the Democratic Party Group and other minority amendments, and of course not even the opinion of the contracting party of the government or the 5 Star majority of the government. These amendments incorporated the comments of the auditors and were aimed not at putting obstacles in place, but at improving a measure that really needed them in favour of the whole world of sport. However, this measure has not improved and remains dangerous and at the very least ambiguous in our view. We believe that the haste that characterized his iter has only one reason: to hand over to the government a blank delegation, bringing enormous damage to the basic sport and not, as is believed, to the great federations. The purpose of the bill, which in our opinion does not respect the Olympic Charter, is exclusively to empty the CONI of its tasks and functions, to give it to Sport and Health in a completely indefinite and arbitrary way, leaving to the CONI only a residual function, purely institutional and representative. The reform of the ICON is necessary and we have never shunned this need. However, it requires dialogue with all stakeholders and cannot be the result of a forced majority by the parliamentary majority or, even more so, by a part of the parliamentary majority. Recommendation 28 of the Olympic Agenda 2020 is based on the principle of responsible autonomy of the national Olympic Committees and national sports federations, as set out in the Olympic Charter. In particular, Article 27.6 provides that the national Olympic Committees must preserve their autonomy and resist pressure of any kind, which could prevent them from fulfilling the Olympic Charter. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Paragraph 5, as Senator Sbrollini has already pointed out, contains the fundamental principles of Olympicism, including that, recognizing that sport is practised within the social fabric, the sporting organizations participating in the Olympic movement must be politically neutral. They have the right and the obligation of autonomy, including the free determination of the control of the rules of sport, the definition of the structure and governance of their organisations. On 6 August, as mentioned over the past few hours, James MacLeod, director of relations with the National Olympic Committees, wrote to the President of CONI for assurances on some critical points of the bill delegates on the sport order, in order to guarantee the autonomy of the National Olympic Committee and national sports federations, without any external interference in the governance and activities of these organisations. This is clearly a new fact that leads us to propose the question of the preliminary arduous testimony of the IOC, worried about the fate of the CONI following the approval of this delegation and we, with them, also concerned that the concern of the IOC can be transformed into an obstacle to the realization of the much-awaited Olympic sports games that Milan and Cortina have managed to conquer in the last decision of the IOC. [[Applause from the PD Group]] A remarkable and clear concern of the IOC, to which we add our concerns, because this act is not a legitimate attempt to reorganize the world of sport, but a broken and forced way of controlling it, we do not know - but imagine them - for what purposes. For the Democratic Party this design, even before the law, must be stopped. Therefore, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to make a request not to consider it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u53	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a debate will take place on the question referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u56	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, it has been well illustrated, both by Senator Sbrollini and Senator Ferrari, that there is a fundamental problem. We tried to tell you even in the very little time that we had available as oppositions to face the measure: it is a fundamental error that sees its origin in that stroke of hand that you did in the last budget law, when, with very few paragraphs, you basically destroyed the world of sport, to bring it all to Palazzo Chigi. It's written black on white and you wrote it. But then you realized that you had made a monco measure within the budget law and that you needed a series of delegations to be able to implement it. We have tried, as we always do, to make constructive proposals with regard to these delegations, examining the text and proposing a number of amendments, even - I say this to you, Mr President, then you will be able to tell me in the future if this is right - before the hearings were held. In fact, we were asked to table the amendments before we even made the hearings. 13:53 p.m. (MALPEZZI follow). This is the new democracy, this is the mode of work of the League matrix government and 5 Stars. Despite this, we have tried to propose a series of corrective measures, which we submitted to your attention in the debate and in the vote on all the amendments last night, starting from a concern. We told you that what you were doing and you are going to do is likely to put the whole sports world in grave danger. Someone continues to accuse us of simply wanting to defend the CONI, of being lobbyists of the CONI. No, we want to defend sport and to do so this delegation must not pass. We cannot entrust you with white paper and leave you free to introduce rules that are likely to deeply damage the whole sector. Where did we start? Few ideas, very simple, but, from our point of view, they are absolutely right. In the meantime, we have said that the funding that you have taken from the ICON today to distribute it in rain in general should have criteria. We have therefore suggested criteria and possibilities, but you have absolutely rejected them from the sender, so as not to create a scheme within which to determine who the funding goes to. We suggested that you look at the number of members to the associations, their results, their performance, a normal criterion of measurable; you could choose others and it would be fine. But giving you white paper, without saying anything and making sure that the management is completely autonomous, but above all without criteria, created us some problems. You told us no, you rejected all the work that the oppositions, constructively, tried to do. We have added indications that, from our point of view, they could be very useful. We tried to introduce a rule on the representation of fans in consultative bodies, not as you did, which put them in the constituent acts of sports clubs. We are not a priori opposed to that rule. We just asked you to be sure that those who will play a representative role in that context at least have not been hit by the Daspus, at least have no crimes behind them, otherwise you put within those associations - let's call them that - of those bodies people who, at least, do not have a very clear behavior. Here again it was a simple criterion of transparency. This proposal has also been rejected by the sender. Another important thing is related to a delegation to Article 2 (since within the measure there are many delegations) with respect to which we do not have great opposition, which provides funding from "Sport and health" to federations and sports promotion bodies, sports disciplines and also school sports centres. We told you that the delegation is valid but it is at no cost. All the delegations provided for in the measure have no resources except those which, with the coup d'état of the budget law, you have taken away from the CONI. Without resources, they can't do anything. So why provide for an empty delegation, with absolutely no possibility of being developed? Again, I am sorry - and I say this in a non-ideological way to all the female colleagues in this Senate and to the colleagues in the Culture Commission - because we have tried to pass rules on women's sports professionalism. We have tried to introduce rules that really guarantee everyone equal opportunities for access and treatment: dead paper, dead letter. You told us no. Women, where are you? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Are you sure you want to vote this way, putting all female professionalism in a corner? And then we do battles and we forget that in every compartment you need to do a battle? I'd like men to fight this battle. I'm tired of having to ask women to ally. Men: do this battle with us on women's professionalism. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I am sorry, then, to hear President Romeo's words, which this morning stated, perhaps in the emphasis, that we are going straight forward without letters and letters, and he was perhaps referring to the letter, so quoted, arrived this morning. We have raised those concerns that today, President Romeo, come through the letter and the letter, we raised them yesterday evening, we raised them two weeks ago, we raised them when the measure arrived at the House. They were the same observations. We told you to pay attention to Article 1, because it contains risky rules: you are putting at risk the whole sport sector, you are putting at risk the Olympics in Italy, you are putting at risk an industry that has a great economic value also. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We've reported them to you. It is not the letter that comes today to awaken oppositions. The oppositions have presented the same amendments from this point of view to both the House and the Senate, because they are concerned, because they have gathered the alarm cry of all the territories, who are afraid of being depleted of a strong heritage such as that of sports associationism. We didn't need genes, we certainly didn't need our amendments to try to highlight the issue: just get out of here, just hang out with the sports world a little bit and everyone can explain the worry about the depletion of what has a historical and social value like sport. I'm just pointing out a few issues. I say this to the Undersecretary Valente: since the one at our examination is not a decree, since there is no deadline and since there is the possibility of going ahead (because no one runs after you and for the haste you continue to make mistakes) it would be enough to stop for a moment. Take your time. Add, if you do not want to change the text, in the most critical parts of Article 1, at least the part concerning the continuous and constant reference to the Olympic Charter. This, at least, would secure the Olympics and the work done on the territories, would secure all sports associations and clubs of all levels. I would like to understand what the athletes have done to you, what have the young people who are attending the world of sport done to you, what have those centres in the suburbs that make sport a garrison of democracy, justice and legality? Why are you penalising them? What's the hurry? Take your time, and I say this to this whole House. We can't be rushed. Nobody's chasing us about this measure. There is only one who wants it: Undersecretary Giorgetti. Vote for the measure only to give undersecretary Giorgetti a victory, which will be a victory of Pirro and everything will turn against you. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u59	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, you see Mr Malpezzi, this is a consolation prize for Undersecretary Giorgetti, so we too must do our part here as the last act. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question before us is absolutely right. We had tried, in some way, to reason with the majority leaders at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders to try to persuade them to work in the Commission a little more thoughtful and then to move the examination of the measure at least to September. I believe that we all agree enough to get our hands on, review and access to a reasoned reform of sport governance. Certainly, however, the only thing you can't do is an operation that has no precedent in our country. During Fascism the CONI had the privilege - let's say this - of having as president the secretary of the Fascist party. Certainly the interferences were very strong, but from the formal point of view remained in some way the autonomy of the governance of the sport. In contrast, with the measure under consideration, there is a white delegation operation, the contours of which are quite clear and clear, which is to make the Commission subject to the CONI and the governance of the Olympic Committees. Of course, this is very delicate. Here no one is naive, we know perfectly well that the idea and that sport can be out of the political dynamics is perhaps just a dream and alas politics has always entered and even too much. With the measure under consideration, however, even formally and in fact, we have arrived at an operation to submit to the Commission. I believe that this is an operation that we certainly cannot go along with, and that is why the question referred for a preliminary ruling is well founded. I say more: the letter sent by the IOC, the International Olympic Committee, of which we came in possession this morning and which you have all read, colleagues, poses very serious problems, when it recalls paragraph 5 of the Charter containing the fundamental principles of Olympicism, in which it is said that "recognizing that sport is practiced within the framework of the social fabric, sports organisations participating in the Olympic movement" such as the CONI "must be politically neutral," adding that they have the right and the obligation of autonomy, including the free determination and control of the rules of sport, the definition of the structure and governance of their organisations, the right to elections free from any external influence and the responsibility to ensure that the principles of good governance are applied. In retransmitting ourselves, for knowledge, the fundamental principles of the Olympianism - then follow other norms, including all that follows with regard to the respect of the Olympic Charter - clearly indicate the points - which are submitted to our attention and therefore we cannot pretend anything - and the norms contained in the draft law of delegation, which conflict openly and showfully with the fundamental principles of the Olympianism: in article 1, paragraph 1; in article 1, paragraph 1, letter d); in article 1, paragraph 1, letter i); in article 1, paragraph 1, letters l) and m). So, he does an operation that someone may call an interference, but he identifies the profile of divergence and even conflict with fundamental principles. Now, it is not just an academic initiative, because if you continue on this path, you could have quite serious consequences, even compared to the next Olympics. If we do not comply in some way and do not come to change the rules, in order to guarantee the autonomy of the governance of the CONI, the consequences could even be that, perhaps, our athletes will participate in the Olympics but not with the Italian flag, because we would be expelled from the CONI. Of course, we are a free and autonomous Assembly, a Parliamentary Assembly and, therefore, we must take our decisions. Of course, however, prudence would have wanted a return to the Commission, in order to be able, not only to arrive at a more calm discussion of the amendments, but, probably, also to a reformulation that can guarantee, fully and fully, this autonomy, which is reminded today by the IOC but which should be the guiding element of any reform of sport in our country. For these reasons, we shall vote in favour of the question referred for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u62	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I will be brief because my previous colleagues have been very clear and very precise. I largely agree with the reasons, especially those of my colleagues in the Democratic Party, whom I have heard before. I am speaking personally to say that I support the question referred for a preliminary ruling without reservation. I would also like to say one thing, because I do not want to amputate the speech merely with great principles. The great principles are clear: we have a proposal that does not meet the requirements that are the basic foundation of any legislative delegation. We do not understand why this problem, which for decades has always been considered in another way, suddenly becomes urgent on August 5. I would add that we, for the first time, are presenting ourselves with a fundamental principle, which is autonomy from the politics of the sports world. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Why are we doing this? Here we have sportsmen - I see before me Senator Galliani - who can teach us so much about sports management. I, of course, can be at most a student of theirs, but on the subject of the relationship between politics and sport everything is clear to me: politics, especially the government, must respect the autonomy of the sports world. What's going on here? I say this for the citizens who are outside these classrooms, who perhaps listen to our debate. Here it is happening that a serious person like the Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council, Mr Giorgetti, whom I met when I was President of the House and he was President of the Budget Commission, who is undoubtedly a colleague whom we value and believe to be serious, is currently conducting a kind of battle on the basis of which we do not understand the principle. A battle against sport and its autonomy, directing the strangles of the Government towards President Malagò, who is President of the CONI not on the basis of a political convent that he realized with this or that party, but on the basis of an absolute esteem he receives from the sports world. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is said that the mechanism that regulates Italian sport is different from that of the rest of the world; except that it is not true and that the International Olympic Committee (IOC) would not have intervened if it had been so; however, apart from this, if we admit and do not grant this premise, a reasonable person like Giorgetti would have called Malagò and would have sat down, not in personal representation of themselves, but of the worlds behind them: one has behind the Government, the other the world of sport. This Barletta challenge would be over, because it's meaningless. A few weeks ago we celebrated the great success, even of the government. Yes, also of the Government, because if the Executive of my country, to whom I vote the distrust regularly, does a positive thing and realizes the possibility of having the Olympics, I applaud it, I am Italian, not anti-Italian. However, that result of the Olympics was also because there was Mayor Sala, because there were governors of different political nature and origins, but they were all able to take a step back to favor the unity of the nation and obtain the Olympics. Well: today we enter into war with the IOC, we risk compromising the Olympic path, based on the fact that Giorgetti and Malagò do not get along. Look, it's something that's not in heaven or on earth, it's ridiculous, it's childish. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are here on 6 August - at least they will say that we work, this is the only positive aspect, because otherwise we do not understand what positivity there is in this debate - going essentially to break the balances that worked well, as the results show us. Colleagues, I would add that I shall vote on the question referred by the PD Group in a strong way and I would also like to say to Mr Giorgetti that, as I repeat, I appreciate that he is a capable colleague, that perhaps if today the Government were willing to take a step back and stop in this foolish race, it would only make a beautiful figure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u65	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we are surprised by the letter (or letter, as I have called it) from the International Olympic Committee, perhaps written a little hastyly by officials who probably have not read the text of the delegation. On the other hand, we are not surprised by this surge of shields coming from the minority, because it had been announced long ago by one part of the minority and we probably also understand the reasons for it. We have to read them, the measures, because that is the basis for everything. There are accusations that we have presented a bill of delegation that undermines the autonomy of the CONI, that does not respect the Olympic Charter and even endangers not only the autonomy of the national Olympic committees, but also the national sports federations, giving a residual function to the CONI and even threatening the incredible hypothesis that the future Olympics will be put at risk. With regard to this, undoubtedly, one could say: in the face of such a letter, who knows what this bill really will say! Then we take the deliberate, that is, the bill, because it has happened so many times that the laws are discussed, interpreted, criticized and many who do so then do not read them. Article 1, which is the founding element, provides, in paragraph (c) as follows: "confirm, in accordance with the provisions of the Olympic Charter, the mission of the CONI to encourage and disseminate the principles and values of Olympianism, in harmony with the international sporting order;" So he is perfectly true to what the Olympic Charter states in the famous paragraph 5. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). Then put it to paragraph 1! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Maybe we've read wrong, because we're not as scientists, as smart as the left, so it's possible that maybe we can't even read well. In paragraph (f) it is laid down: "to provide for limitations and constraints, including the possibility of banning them, for betting on football matches of clubs playing in the national amateur league championships; "that is, however, an absolutely fundamental element. In point (g) it is stated that the CONI exercises supervisory powers in order to verify that the sporting activities of the national sports federations - those which should be in danger of being influenced by politics - are carried out in accordance with the deliberations and guidelines of the International Olympic Committee and of the CONI and that the Commission of national sports federations and associated sports disciplines is free if serious violations are detected. The law of delegation is therefore a delegation to the Government to provide that the CONI supervises the sports federations when these associations do not follow the principles dictated by the CONI itself: do you explain to me where is the risk of endangering the autonomy of the CONI or the sports federations themselves? Honestly, we don't understand. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Among other things, since there was some element of perplexity, a further effort has been made in the Commission, because we thought, if we really could not understand it, to give an extra possibility, with the presentation by the rapporteur, Senator Barbaro, of an agenda (but there is one similar one presented by Senator Cangini, if I remember correctly) in which there is a commitment to the precise government, which was received in the Commission yesterday late in the evening, to be assumed in the implementation of the delegation, since there will then be the implementing decrees that will have to be approved, because it is a delegated law, not a decree-law - President Casini, it is a related to the order of sport, it is not a decree-law - with characteristics of necessity and urgency. The urgency is that we have a ready measure and it is therefore worth voting on it rather than going on vacation as the newspapers write. MALPEZZI (PD). It's not ready! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Perhaps it is better to work and approve the measures, rather than go on vacation as someone writes. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The agenda commits the Government, when implementing the delegation, to define the role of the governing CONI of the Olympic activity in accordance with Article 27 of the Olympic Charter and to open a table of confrontation with all the actors in the sector in order to collect their indications and needs to be evaluated when implementing the delegations. So, if you are not sure and you have fears, there is also a table where we will welcome all the proposals and all the guarantees, testifying that the truth is that the delegation law is born with a single function, Senator Malpezzi, which is to improve and promote the development and growth of the thousands of amateur sports associations that are there in our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It's okay, then. Next time, before writing the letters or submitting the questions for a preliminary ruling, we read the provision. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]] MALPEZZI (PD). You have to read it!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u66	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred by Senator Ferrari for a preliminary ruling. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u69	Patuanelli (M5S). On the basis of an agreement between the groups, I request that the work be suspended until 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u70	Without comment, I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.20 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to vote on a bill which, if not amended by this House, will dramatically harm not only the entire Italian sports movement, but also Italy's reputation in the international context. You want to empty an entity like the CONI of your skills. I would like to recall how, for example for Friuli-Venezia Giulia - according to the law - it is the CONI, together with the Region, to be called upon to decide on funding for clubs and sports facilities and to organize, as for this year, the general states of sport. In addition, I would like to mention the attention that CONI has to the territory, following all sports societies and all sports, including the so-called minor ones, and the federations, not only the four or five most important. I would also like to mention the attention that CONI, in its national, regional and territorial expressions, has for the sport activities of the weakest groups, for children and adults with disabilities or disabilities, thinking of a real integration and a real and authentic interaction with all the facets of society. This measure of the majority, in fact, empties the CONI of its primary vocation, relegating the presidents, delegates and representatives, people democratically elected by all federations and with decades of experience from sports leaders, to mere representatives, who will in fact have only the task of delivering trophies and medals. This is not the primary function for which the CONI exists, nor could we think that it could become a sort of travel office to organize the movements of our delegations during the Olympic Games and be deprived of its role throughout the national territory. What, I wonder and ask ourselves, is the meaning of this reform? Moving the management of all the sports movement in Italy to an institution like Sport and health, managed, apparently, by people without any experience in the field of sports? We also add what was presented by President Malagò and reiterated again by the International Olympic Committee: this measure does not respect the Olympic Charter, the magna charta that determines the rights and duties of the sports movement and the Olympics. The letter, as President Romeo calls it, puts us in front of a decision that affects everyone, not just the majority. You applauded the award of the Winter Olympic Games in Milan and Cortina and we all did so, in the belief that it will be a great opportunity for the whole country. Listen again, friends of the League, to the enthusiastic statements of Minister Salvini. But without respect for the Olympic Charter, Italy risks seeing the Olympics take off, because the Olympics are a serious thing and the International Olympic Committee (IOC) is a serious thing. And it will not be some statement, some ups and downs that will change the opinion of the IOC, but a serious attitude in considering the comments, as advocated by the majority rapporteur. I therefore ask you to take some more time, to reflect, to revise the text and to rethink it so as not to undermine, first of all, the democratic nature of the sports movement, in which all representatives are democratically elected and not appointed, and the principle of autonomy. Today the funds are being distributed democratically. If your design is not amended, the sporting realities will no longer participate in the democratic distribution of funds by the regional CONI juntas, democratically elected, but will be forced to beg resources from an entity, Sport and health, whose offices are non-elective, but nominative, therefore exquisitely political, subject to logics that have nothing to do with sport. Moreover, on this design it was not intended to consult the Regions, at least those with special statutes, for which sport is subject to concurrent legislation. This measure is therefore also detrimental to a constitutional principle. Colleagues, think again, in the interests of citizens, society, Italy and our credibility. Let's think about it together, also because of the great results that our athletes have always shown, in all the challenges. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u72	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u73	Mr President, the debate on the draft law which delegates to the Government and other provisions on sports law, sports professions and simplification allows us to recall once again how sport is of vital importance to the health and well-being of all sections of the population and therefore how the promotion of sports practice is enshrined, in fact, in our Constitution, where it recognises the right to health to all citizens. Hence the need to develop policies of primary and secondary prevention of the main pathologies afflicting our society, precisely through the development of a policy that promotes sport in schools and among the oldest population, thus encompassing all areas of life. But also the need to put young people, who want to make their reason for life by following a professionalized competitive path, in the conditions of having the best quality possible. It is therefore important to try to improve the organisation of government agencies and the management of the whole sports world, but to try to protect their dignity and institutional independence as much as possible. Entering specifically the draft delegation law, there are some points that we consider critical. First of all, taking into account what is stated in the Olympic Charter, which has just been mentioned, I do not think it is possible to relegate an Olympic Committee to a mere governing body for Olympic activity. This is, in fact, highly restrictive of the scope of the Olympic Committee itself. Rule 27 of the Olympic Charter gives the various committees tasks and functions for the development of high performance (and therefore personalising) sport as well as sport for all. According to the IOC, therefore, the task of a National Olympic Committee is to deal with both high-performance sport and sport for all. The definition used in the draft law in question seems to conflict with the provisions of the IOC Olympic Charter on the role and function of the Olympic Committee. In addition, the autonomy of the national sports law, under the CONI, in accordance with the rules of the international sports law, is expressly recognized by law n. 280 of 2003. In addition, the European Sports Charter adopted in Rhodes in 1992 states that the role of public authorities in sport should be primarily complementary to the action of sports movements. I therefore have strong doubts that the draft law in question - in particular Article 1 - takes due account of the principle of autonomy in sport recognised as ex-lege and the principle of the specificity of sport recognised and enshrined in the supranational order of the European Union. Always in accordance with the principle of autonomy and unity of the sports system and without prejudice to the supervisory authority's control over the use of the contributions assigned by the repeated company, it is considered appropriate to maintain not only the power of direction and control of a purely sporting order, but also a power of supervision and control over the budgets of the federations, which therefore are not constituted by the public contributions received, but also by other items such as affiliations, memberships, etc. Another topic that is particularly dear to me is the territorial articulation of the CONI and the autonomy of these territorial articulations. In the draft law, the territorial garrison refers exclusively to institutional functions and this is clearly contrary to the Olympic Charter of the IOC. For this reason, it is considered appropriate to maintain the current legislative provision, which constitutes its organic and functional structure. Another important aspect is that, on the basis of the fundamental principles laid down by the current state legislation, due to the tasks assigned to the CONI, regional legislative competence in the promotion of sports and recreational activities and in the implementation of sports facilities should be maintained. It has already been pointed out earlier that in regions with a special statute this is a competing matter. Therefore, we cannot lose this important competence in managing such a crucial area for the lives of the population. I, too, have some serious doubts about this draft law. In particular, I note that there can be a real weakening of the CONI and its territorial articulations and an excessive control of politics, which is already there, but from which the world of sport must remain as far away as possible. For this reason, and above all because of the great controversy and the clash between the summits of the CONI and the political summits, I believe that we must arrive at a conciliation, in order to find a text on which both agree. Therefore, my judgment on the draft delegation law under consideration is of great concern and concern. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u74	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciriani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u75	Mr President, I am speaking not in order to make a detailed discussion of the article, on which we shall then speak and on which our colleague Mr Iannone has spent, which I also thank for his work in recent weeks, but for carrying out general considerations as a sportsman or at least as a person who has been lucky enough to know and attend the world of sports federations and the sporting organization as a whole (including CONI). The first thing I honestly regret in seeing the discussions of the last few days and weeks is the fact that sport has become the ground of political confrontation; worse: it has become the ground of party confrontation. This hurts sport and there will be negative consequences anyway, because the value of sport, the strength of the Italian sports movement lies in the fact that it has always kept more or less away from political and party interference. It is also honest, however, to add that in this affair it is difficult to divide the wrong and the reason in a draconian way, because both sides have faults to be forgiven. Surely the CONI claims the right to autonomy, as also sanctioned by the Olympic Charter; but it is equally fair to say that, if we do an analysis of how the CONI has operated in previous years, some flaw, some error and some waste have been there. The government, then, claims the right to use public money - because of this - according to criteria of transparency and efficiency. Do you have the right to do that? Of course you have the right to do so; more, I would say that you have a duty to act in this direction. What it cannot do is to exploit sport and transform the debate and also the reform, perhaps necessary, of sport into an occasion of political confrontation and a war of power. Those who have had the opportunity and - I repeat - the privilege of doing sports in first person and attending federations and sporting events know that sport has always united and never divided. Local authorities, even of different colors, have always joined when it came to enhancing sport. There is, however, a sport that is less talked about and that is likely to be crushed by this war. It seems like a clash between titans and pay the consequences of it risk being the sport of minor, the sport of provincial federations, the sport of volunteering. Those who lead the federations and those who work in the suburbs do not receive a single euro for the work they do; on the contrary, they often have to anticipate the money in their own pocket to organize a demonstration or a small championship. We have secured Olympic practices and the preparation of athletes for the Olympics, but there is no Olympic athlete if there is no basis for sport, youth activity, minor sport, federation; if there is no guarantee of being able to continue to act in freedom, as has been done so far. I honestly say that what worries me is that in the end, in the clash between CONI and Government - between Malagò and Giorgetti, to simplify - it is the volunteers who carry out the cart, who do not receive a euro even from their federations, President, colleagues. I repeat that our feeling is that it has acted too quickly. Perhaps the intentions were serious, perhaps even acceptable, but sport is something else; the sport which, in its activities, refers to the Olympic Charter, to the Olympic values - it should be remembered - because it is a guarantee that the aims of sport decide for it itself and not for politics. The aims of sport are decided by sports leaders, by those who understand us; it cannot be an occasion for some political or party speculation. So if we had to talk about reform - and it was right to talk about reform - perhaps the methods that have been adopted are wrong. I would like to add a final remark, Mr President, on the fact that today we too have had the opportunity to read the letter that the IOC sent to our CONI, so that it would in turn make it known to the Government. We have learned that the letter is signed by the director. I do not believe that the International Olympic Committee, however, is a very serious organisation, can allow its director to write a letter without the summits being informed about it and not having endorsed its content. Senator Romeo and his colleagues in the majority are probably right when they ensured that the concerns set out in the letter have already been the subject of reflection by the Government. However, I have the feeling that this is not the case. In fact, the text approved by the Chamber has arrived to the Senate as such, without any modification and, therefore, the letter refers to a text that has not been modified. Of course, the measure is now before the House, we will see how it ends. Agendas have been presented, but I fear that the substance will not be changed. Some people fear the risk - it would be very serious - that Italy can be excluded from the IOC, and therefore also from international competitions and Olympic competitions; I repeat that it would be a tragedy, even in the light of the fact that we have just celebrated the assignment of a seat for the Winter Olympics. I conclude with the hope that the Government and the majority want to reason because Italian sport needs above all - and this also concerns the CONI and its Roman and national leaders - competent leaders, passionate and prepared. It does not need officials and politicians either this or that political part. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u77	Mr President, distinguished members of the Government, fellow senators, this morning my colleague Romeo, the authoritative chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the League, reminded us that we are not faced with a decree-law; we are faced with a bill of delegation. Well, I challenge the members of the 7th Commission - where we discussed the individual amendments to this measure until last night - members of the majority who are going to vote on it in this House today, to explain to me and to explain to us what the principles and guiding criteria that, according to Article 76 of the Constitution, Parliament, taking its legislative power, delegates to the Government by transferring its legislative function to it. I do not think anyone can reasonably explain what these criteria are, because this is a rainy measure on this House - after the Commission has passed - from the high armored. It is useless that we make fun of ourselves: a clash of power is taking place, where the objective of the Undersecretary Giorgetti in a particular way, and I imagine almost all the League - I say almost rightly - is to get hands on a chest. Much money has been managed up to now by the CONI and it is assumed that it is also in their intentions the possibility of creating a network of consent, using the federations; in short, money and votes. It is not nice that the sport, on which one could, by doing some rhetoric, converge everyone, pulling out the noblest and tallest part of us, is so treated. I imagine that the poor de Coubertin is turning in the grave, but we note that this is the approach of the Government and this is the attitude of the majority; a clearly passive and remissive attitude: it takes for good what is imposed and ratified, without any exception. It is a pity, because there would have been a way in the Commission and today in this House to improve the text, refine it and make it more balanced. We at Forza Italia have tabled a number of amendments, which are designed precisely to improve the measure, but almost all of them have been rejected as a whole. Something has been accepted as an agenda and I shall talk about it. This is a missed opportunity. If there is one subject on which it could have been possible, perhaps it should have converged and it should have been dealt with with with balance, interest and dedication to the general interest, it is precisely that sport. I find it hard to understand what the general interest really is, while I am quite clear what the game is in terms of power. I do not have an angelic vision of political play: I know that politics has to do with force and power, but there is way and way of doing things. Last night in the Commission, around 11 p.m., was put to the Undersecretary of Guides - I must say that he had a dialectical and apparently open-minded attitude, although he rejected almost all of our amendments - the question of the possible implications of this reform on the Olympic dynamic and the IOC. The answer was quite clear: the thesis was that the prospect vented by President Malagò, at the hearing a few days ago in the Commission, was absolutely imaginative and agitated in an instrumental way. This morning the letter of the IOC confirms that it is not as the undersecretary Guidesi had understood; the concerns are obviously serious and how well founded we will see it in the coming months, but also only the fact that to date Italy can only risk being excluded from the next Olympics is an issue that, with all evidence, harms the interest and the image of the Country. It is useless to prolong, so much is evident the damage that such a prospect could cause to the country. I welcome the fact that one of our amendments, which was intended to correct one of the many distortions that the draft delegation law envisaged, has been transformed and accepted as an agenda. It is a little frightening to think that, from the government's point of view, the whole sports world could be imposed on the professional, semi-professional and amateur sports world, the equalization with the world of ordinary work. At least for amateurs it is clear that imposing employment contracts would mean completely destroying that world and preventing it from breathing and growing. Our amendment, which was intended to lift and save - I dare say - at least the amateur world from this government imposition, was accepted by the Government as an agenda. We hope that that agenda will have a bearing on the immediate future. This is at least a dozen delegations which are addressed by Parliament in white to the Government. I hope - and the whole of the Forza Italia Group hopes - that with the utmost seriousness it will return to the matter, trying to correct the mistakes - what I told you was obviously a mistake - and the forcings, which are multiple in this measure, trying to reconcile it with its world of belonging, which is not and should not be that of the strength and power of politics, but that of sport. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u78	Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u79	Mr President, reading this measure and deepening the content of the text, I have had the feeling - and I do not think I have been the only one, given the echo that this measure is pouring on the media - that the curse that often punishes those who, after having done or preached the revolution, go to the government, has struck again. The temptation to feel not called to carry out a service but to command and the consequent temptation, after having preached decentralisation and areas of responsibility, to centralize power at its own level or, at the most, at lower levels, if there are assigned friendly people or friends of friends, I think it is felt in this measure in an absolutely plastic way. In fact, the vision that the draft delegation in question gives us in a very clear and clear way is that the Government takes control of the sport and all the instruments that govern it. I would like to say here - and I am sorry that Senator Romeo is not here now - that this feeling is not averted from the text that has been presented to us. In the text that we have in our hands, in fact, it is written that the role of the CONI is redefined in accordance with the provisions of article 1, paragraph 630, of the law 30 December 2018, n. 145 (the budget law), in which, quite simply it is said that the resources that will reach the sports world are destined, as far as the CONI is concerned, to cover the institutional burdens, to the Olympic preparation and to the Italian delegation. All the rest (over 300 million euros) go to what was the CONI Servizi, which is transformed into Sport and Health SpA, which will have among its tasks the distribution of resources to national sports federations, sports promotion agencies, military sports groups and civil bodies of the State, associations. Basically, therefore, this association, which will see the management bodies appointed directly by the Government, will manage all the resources that will go to the world of sport. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If not only these militarization and careful control of sport, someone should explain to me what all this would consist of. I believe that precisely for this reason the letter of the IOC is not to be taken under ambush; the IOC, in fact, recalls one very simple thing: sport, which should not only consist of sporting events at international level, but also has an important task in the social fabric of the country - a task of cohesion, training, education and health for a territory - should be politically neutral, should have a right and an obligation of autonomy. And it also tells us that this role must be mentioned in free determination, control of the rules of sport, governance of the associations that preside over it, free elections not influenced. I believe that the fact that this is said by the IOC and that in the measure such principle is not respected - and we do not say so, but the reference to article 1, paragraph 630, of the fiscal law of 2018 - should make us think. In my very brief speech, I would like to say to the Government, but above all to this majority and to those who have explained to us in all possible and imaginable sauces that are inspired by the principles of democracy, that it is not enough to enunciate democracy, but must be mentioned in the choices. The objectives of democracy must be such, they must inspire and guide the individual steps; democracy must also not ask the committees responsible for tabling amendments before they have heard the views of the parties concerned. To ask for time limits for tabling amendments before hearings is a force that does not make any sense. Something like that never happened. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I ask very simply that we rethink what is being done. I repeat that it is not enough to state the values that inspire democracy, but it is necessary to translate them into the concrete, the paths and the steps that are being taken, also in order to prevent what we are doing from being a false step. Believe me: we read in a neutral way what the IOC tells us, quite simply. He only calls us back to make no mistakes we might regret. The legislation in our examination is leading us to a vision of off-road sport, completely out of all reference patterns. I would never want what we are talking about to be an operation that will put its hands on all sports activities, from promotional activities to those practiced on the territory, to manage that mass of resources - 300 million euros - in a totally instrumental and clientele vision. Sport needs autonomy and this can not only be stated but must be implemented, starting from institutional and operational arrangements. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u80	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u81	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking very briefly because, unfortunately, what I feared came true. The debate has been overtaken almost exclusively by Article 1. No major changes have emerged in relation to the Government's understanding expressed through the measure under consideration. And, therefore, I have an obligation to make a point, at least with regard to what - in my view - are inaccuracies, which I am certainly able to demonstrate, where I am given the opportunity. When we talk about the CONI, I can say with extreme tranquility that no one has remembered - indeed, Mr Casini has even gone so far as to say that it was not an abnormal model compared to that of the other countries of the world - that the Italian National Olympic Committee was the most powerful in the world, and not because the CONI had attributed the possibilities to it, but because this aspect - I allow myself a small historical digression - was somehow connected, at least until twenty years ago, to the ability to self-finance the world of sport through Totocalcio. This possibility has failed, for twenty years the CONI has continued to have political autonomy, but it has no longer had financial autonomy. Over the years, therefore, the State has had the opportunity to decrease even more its attention to this sector that, until then, had not raised problems, even in its imperfection - in any case had not produced sports culture in the country - until today. Today we can afford to say with absolute certainty, frankness, sincerity and lucidity that the Italian sports model was unique in the world and I can also emphasize that Italy was the only country in which sport was administered by a second level public body, what happened through the sports government. Now, beyond this clarification, I regret that the debate has ignored the other innovative aspects of the measure, the most important of which was mentioned by me in the report: there are 60 million more derived from the tax revenue produced by sport itself, which will be allocated to the administrative machine of the world of sport, regardless of whether it can be governed by the previous CONI rather than by Sport and Salute SpA, a company on which, of course, a reflection must be opened. We are waiting for the production of the industrial plan. We are waiting to understand, from a programmatic point of view, how this new subject will intend to place itself within the sports organization. On this, of course, we of the majority have great confidence. On the other hand, with regard to the aspects related to the debate in both the Commission and here today on the possibility that the draft law delegates to our examination - I keep reminding you that it is a delegated bill - it can somehow accept all the indications that have emerged both in the Commission and in the Chamber, I continue to remain confident. I remember that the draft law delegates to our examination is linked to the budget law and the agenda I presented to the Commission, and accepted by the Government, in itself is binding, or rather it is certainly, in terms of direction, more binding than any other agenda can be. Having exhausted this premise on the role of the ICON, the only other reflection that I want to bring to the attention of this House is an issue which has repeatedly resonated within both the Commission and the House and which I fear may lead to demagogy. I am referring to a need felt, which is that of equalization of the professional world of women with respect to men, which unfortunately can only be addressed when the resources that can be made available for such equalization are very precise - I say this with great frankness. It is not possible that they should be borne by the State, but they must come from within the world of sport, in a context of mutuality, which can only be that which comes from television rights. It is clear that, from this point of view, the Government can certainly produce an address, but the comparison with the sporting parts becomes - I dare say - fundamental. (The sitting was suspended at 3.35 p.m. and resumed at 3.35 p.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 3.35 p.m. and resumed Finally, I would like to mention the fact that, on the agenda I referred to earlier, reference was made not only to the harmonization of legislative processes with Article 27 of the Olympic Charter, but also to the possibility of opening a table of comparison with the whole world of sport. It is true that we have been accustomed to compensation chambers, that we have seen to take shape within the present collegial bodies of the CONI and that it is still not given to know which ones may be. The comparison with the actors, with the protagonists of the sports organization and with the sports organizations is however protected on the aforementioned agenda, because they can have the opportunity to confront with the Government and with all the actors who have begun to tread the scene of the new sports organization. I am sure that the future of Italian sport will emerge from this discussion. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u83	I call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u84	Mr President, I would like to highlight some very critical aspects which emerged during the general discussion by not only the Democratic Party but also the other parliamentary groups, on Article 1 of the measure and, above all, on the urgency of this measure. In fact, there was no hurry and everyone highlighted how it could be deepened, without giving a delegation to the Government. I would like to stress once again that we are faced with a very broad bill of delegation, with which 12 potential legislative delegations - there are so many - would even be assigned which deal with fundamental aspects of sport, at national, international and territorial level. In the few minutes I have available, I would also like to reply to President Romeo. Colleagues, if it is true - as you say - that the draft law delegates in question respects the Olympic Charter, I would like to understand why you did not write it in a clear way. [[Applause from the PD Group]] and you did not quote directly the articles and paragraphs, as did the president of the IOC, Bach, in his letter sent this morning, in which he stresses in a worrying and critical way some aspects and clearly says that Italy could even come out of the IOC and would even be sanctioned, so much so that the world of sport would be strongly weakened and split in its integrity. Then why do all this? What was the rush? Why do you have to break the world of sport? [[Applause from the PD Group]] We really can't understand it and I consider it a very serious fact. We are talking about equal opportunities and women's professionalism - and we will explain it well during the examination of the amendments too. Why have these things not been written in a clear and determined way? We want to take away power from the movement of sport, just as it has been conceived so far - I stress that each of us, on the other hand, wants to make a serious reform of sport - simply to invent a new organism, a direct emanation of the Government and of the Undersecretary Giorgetti, to which we give a delegation in white. I wanted to highlight just a few aspects, because I really believe that it is a pity and a great regret that we have not been able to write today a new page, all together, about the reform of the world of sport. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u85	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the debate in this House, not sharing some of the speeches and some of the issues that have been raised, which may not be true. I would like to make a broader reflection than the principles that the Government has included in the reform of the sports organization, which is born not with this measure but - as someone has said - in the fiscal law 2019, where it has decided to put order; where it has decided to make clarity; where it has been decided to separate from the CONI what was before CONI Servizi, now become Sport and Salute SpA, that is a society to 100% of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, a public agency that manages public money. This separation was born of obvious distortions, which many of you have probably known in the past, perhaps even for some clientele management that - in my view - had to be completely eliminated. It was a first step in improving reform, because the new company Sport and Salute SpA will strive to develop some strands, such as exercise, prevention and school sport. These fields, more focused on what many call sports for everyone, basic sports, are really the focus and goal of the Government: therefore, more attention to basic sport and our young people who fill the gyms every day. From there, of course, was born the need to modify also the sporting order that derives from it and was born the draft law delegation in question related to the budget law. In order to respond to many comments made on autonomy and the Olympic Charter, if you read Article 1 carefully, these aspects are already clarified and are protected because, of course, sport must have autonomy, also and above all, with regard to politics. Senator Romeo, who quoted some of the letters in the article itself, made this very clear. Paragraph 1 (c) establishes principles to define the areas of application of the CONI, sports federations, sports promotion agencies and associated sports disciplines. In letter g) the autonomy of the CONI is protected: it is written that the CONI, as currently happens, will be the only one who will watch over Italian sport, sports federations and sports promotion agencies and will be the only one who will be able to commission a federation. This protects the autonomy of Italian sport. Honestly, I was a little surprised by the timing of the letter sent by the IOC, because it comes on a very important day for this provision, during its third reading in the Senate. I hope that it will be finally adopted today, having passed through the Council of Ministers several months ago. Many were the comparisons with the federations and with all the sporting bodies. And there was also a comparison by Sport and Salute SpA. I would like to point out that the Government's attention in writing this text was also and above all intended to adhere as much as possible to the Olympic Charter and, since the principles of delegation will have to be implemented with legislative decrees, some comments that will be carried out also by the IOC will be taken into consideration. The text states that legislative decrees will have to be issued within 12 months. The opening-up of the government is the maximum that listens, transposes and applies all those principles that rightly need to be pursued. I am sorry that the debate has focused heavily on Article 1, because so many other articles that have been shared by the political forces that make up the Government are very important. I would like to mention Article 5, which for the first time takes into account sports work: for the first time, sports workers are recognised and all social security and insurance rights and safeguards are guaranteed. It is too easy to pay attention to sports clubs without ever talking about technicians, physical trainers, managers, coaches, athletes who make sport a job. In the text under consideration for the first time we put them in the center, overcoming the principle of amateur and professional. This government is the first to stand alongside the athletes who work in the world of sport, but it is necessary to go further and really guarantee the rights to all those who work in the world of sport, also and especially to women at this time, and this in Article 5 is written, just read it. And this is a process that will not stop with the draft law delegation under discussion or with the related legislative decrees. Precisely to the Ministry of Labour, thanks also to Minister Di Maio, for the first time was formally established a table of comparison on sports work with all categories, leagues and representatives of athletes and unions. This table must reach a goal: on the one hand, to guarantee rights and protection to those who work in the world of sport and, on the other, of course, to guarantee the sustainability of the system to all the companies that keep the Italian sports system up. If we are talking about sports professionalism, I would remind this House that in 1981 - someone mentioned it, but I was not yet born - a law was passed, which is still in force and already gives the sports federations the opportunity to recognize professionalism and, therefore, also professional athletes women. If such recognition has not been achieved, then perhaps sport has not given the right attention to the issue, but it is also true that there has been no sustainability of the system. The government's commitment, in fact, goes in this direction for the first time. I conclude by reassuring this House also with regard to the principles of the autonomy of sport, of adherence to the Olympic Charter, and this is demonstrated by the facts. As my colleagues in the 7th Commission know very well, an agenda has been adopted which commits the Government to paying attention to these principles and to applying them also and especially in the legislative decrees. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u89	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, I would simply like to say that the Undersecretary is reopening the debate. You, Secretary of State, can say anything you have said, some of which I agree with while others do not. However, since I am respectful of this House, it would be right to reopen the debate - but I do not want to do so - because the government cannot have the last word. You had to say what you just said earlier and then Parliament would have the last word. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u90	Excuse me, Senator Caliendo, the government has not reopened the debate at all, because this was a reply. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 126a (2) (b) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency states that amendments 1.15, 1.24 (text 2), 1.34, 1.35, 1.36, 1.51, 1.52, 5.56, 5.62 and 5.0.1, as they are unrelated to the purpose of the bill linked to our examination. In accordance with Rule 100 (8) of the Rules of Procedure, it also states that proposals 3.20 and 7.13 are inadmissible, since they are of no modificative scope.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u91	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. On the agenda, however, I return to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u92	On the amendments, I agree with the rapporteur's amendment, with the exception of amendment 1,37, on which I call on the proposers to withdraw and transform into an agenda with the following wording: "I commit the Government, when implementing the delegation, to extend the prohibition of sports betting to all amateur sport competitions and competitions." As regards agendas, I am in favour of the agenda G1.13, if reworded by replacing the words 'for national sports federations, associated sports and sport promotion bodies' with the following: 'of national sports federations, associated sports disciplines and sports promotion bodies, including paralympics'. I also support the G1.3, G1.5, G1.6, G1.7 and G1.11. agendas. The opinion was opposed to the remaining agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u93	Amendments 1.1 to 1.4 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Iannone, identical to Amendment 1.6, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.9 to 1.8 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senators Iannone and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.15 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.17, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.19, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.24 (text 2) is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.26, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.27, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,28, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.30, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.29 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.31, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.32, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.33, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,34 to 1,36 are inadmissible. I would like to ask Senator Cangini if he will accept the call to turn Amendment 137 into an agenda. CANGINI (FI-BP). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G1.37 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,38, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.39 tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.40, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators, identical to amendment 1,41, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,42, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,44, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,45, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.46 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.49, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators, up to the words 'in charge of the Council'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.50 are therefore excluded. Amendments 1.51 and 1.52 are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.53, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.54, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.55, tabled by Senator Iannone, which is essentially identical to amendment 1.56, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,57, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.58 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,59, tabled by Senator Iannone, identical to Amendment 1.60, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.62, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.63, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators, identical to amendments 1.64, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators, and 1.65, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.67 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.68, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,69, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.70.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u96	SBROLLINI (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask the Government to review its position on Amendment 1.70, which deals with renewal of mandates. We are all certainly in favour of setting a ceiling for the mandate limit, which had already been set up before. We ask, however, to extend the limit to the renewal of mandates also to the leagues and associations, however called, precisely to give an accomplished sense and not to make a distinction between sports subjects. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u97	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.70, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.71 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.73, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.74, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.1, presented by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Malpezzi, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G1.13?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u98	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u99	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.13 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.2 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u102	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, we have heard so many fine words before when President Romeo told us that we do not read the measures. Since we do not read them, we ask the Government in good faith to accept at least the agenda that, after all, should not put him in trouble, as it simply commits the Government to assess the opportunity, at the stage of implementation of the delegation, according to the principles referred to in Article 1 (m), to derogate from the limit of the three mandates for the governing bodies of the territorial structures, for national sports federations, associated sports disciplines and sports promotion bodies also paralympics. The peripheral structures, in fact, have some difficulty in finding the replacement now because the law on the three mandates is already present and it is something that we too have done and, consequently, we ask to give the opportunity to proceed in this direction. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, are you talking about the G1.2 agenda? MALPEZZI (PD). Also on the other agenda. I'm intervening on both of you. It's okay. Is the G1.13 agenda accepted? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That did not seem to me to be the subject; that is why I was asking. MALPEZZI (PD). I would also like to speak on the agenda G1.2. We commit the Government, in the phase of approval of the first useful measure, to find additional financial resources aimed at increasing the fund referred to in article 1, paragraph 369, of the budget law of 27 December 2017 n. 205, to be allocated to the support of maternity of non-professional athletes. I want to understand why the government is also against an agenda that calls for funds to protect the maternity of non-professional athletes. I want to see what we are voting against this agenda with. I repeat. I call on the Government to take an additional look, and I would say to the House that we cannot allow - I call on women - to vote against an agenda that does not change anything and that, at the time of the adoption of a subsequent measure, it calls for funds to be found to support the maternity of athletes. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u103	Senator, the opinion is opposed to the G1.2 agenda, which discusses the same subject, but which presents a small difference in the device: on the agenda G1.2 we read: "at the time of approval of the first useful measure" and on the agenda G1.3 the Government is committed to: "identifying additional financial resources aimed at increasing the fund" to be allocated to support the maternity of non-professional athletes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u104	We would, however, like to have guarantees because this is not an amendment. We are in front of an agenda. Can you explain the difference? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The difference is in the text. The first states: "in the phase of approval of the first useful measure" and "in the phase of approval of the first useful measure" and "in the process of identifying resources." Mr President, since this is not an amendment but an agenda, why is the government afraid to say that it will intervene in an important matter in the first measure? I think we need to speed up. President, these are agendas and not amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u105	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.2 tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.3 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.4 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u108	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, as it is a matter of agendas, I ask the House and not the Government why we must be against an agenda which asks the Government to work to see whether the Sports Office has properly informed, through its website, the athletes of the modalities of request, of the support - always concerning maternity - and whether the same office has published on its institutional portal the statistics relating to the implementation of this article, indicating in particular the number of athletes who have requested the contribution of maternity and those who have received it, as well as the total amount of the sums paid and those remaining; and, in the event of a change in the status of professional athletes, the Government undertakes to take the initiatives so that this fund can be made available not only for maternity, but also for social security and insurance contributions. Honestly, I cannot understand why this outrage in expressing the opposite opinion on agendas that are actually good for everyone. I really do say this: attention, ladies and gentlemen, to how we vote, because there is no ideology here and there is no need to stop in the face of an amending choice. The agenda does not change the measure. We only ask the Government to make a clear commitment to a category that never receives any kind of benefit; it is, by chance, a category represented by women, indeed women mothers.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u109	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.4 tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). MALPEZZI (PD). Vote against maternity. Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.5 agenda will not be put to the vote. On the agenda, Mr G1.6 asked the representative of the Government to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u110	Mr President, I am speaking only to correct an opinion that I mistakenly expressed: the Government's opinion on the G1.6 agenda is not in favour, but against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u111	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.6 tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.7 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.8, presented by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.9 tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G1.10, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G1.12, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.11 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u112	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 2. On the agenda, I'm going back to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u113	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 2. As regards agendas, I am against G2.1 and G2.3. On G2.2 I welcome the following rewording: "to assess the appropriateness, in accordance with public finance constraints, of identifying adequate resources to reward the extracurricular activity attributed to teachers and technical and administrative auxiliary staff at school sports centres." The opinion was in favour of the G2.4 agenda. (16.16 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u114	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.7 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.10 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.17, tabled by Senators Iannone and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,18 to 2,20 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of agenda G2.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Malpezzi, do you accept the request for reformulation of the G2.2 agenda made by the representative of the Government? MALPEZZI (PD). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.2 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G2.3 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u117	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, this agenda was accepted in the Commission last night. I imagine that the two Undersecretaries must be spoken because yesterday was present the Undersecretary Guidesi and on the agenda G2.3 there was a suggestion of modification that I had already accepted, so I ask for verification between the Undersecretaries Guidesi and Valente.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u118	Having no signal from the Government, I call for a simultaneous vote on the G2.3 agenda presented by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u121	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would like to raise a question of method because, in keeping with the Commission's work, I think it is at least necessary that, if the Government changes its opinion on an agenda, it should tell the House why it has changed its opinion. Now, since League and 5 Stars don't get along with anything, this is certainly not a case that leaves us perplexed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] After that, I think that, if a job is done in the Commission - until midnight, among other things - and the next day the Government in this House changes its opinion on an agenda, I think that, out of respect for all the Commissioners of the Commission, this House has a duty to point out at least this difference of position and to demand that the Government should state why an opinion was amended which was given in favour of the Commission last night.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u122	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.4 will not be put to the vote [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u123	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u124	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u125	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.2 to 3.4 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.5, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.6 to 3.11 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.12 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.13 to 3.17 have been withdrawn. Amendment 3.20 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.22, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.24, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.25 to 3.41 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u126	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u127	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u128	Amendment 4.1 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4 (text 2), tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.6 to 4.8 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 5, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u129	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 5. On the agenda, I put myself back to the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u130	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on the amendments. On agendas G5.2 and G5.4 I voted in favour, while on the remaining agendas the opinion is against.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u131	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.4 to 5.17 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.19, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.20, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.23 and 5.24 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.25, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.27 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.28 tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.29, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.30.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u134	SBROLLINI (PD). Mr President, since the Government has repeatedly pointed out that it wants to reform sport which also takes account of the principles of equal opportunities between women and men, we are asking you with this amendment to write it clearly, so that it does not just remain an abstract principle. For us, the right definition would be: "in compliance with the principles of equal opportunities for women and men enshrined in the Constitution." In this way we can avoid any misunderstanding and clearly write a standard as much expected as that of equal opportunities, given the many discriminations that still exist between the world of women and men also in sport.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u135	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.30, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.32 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.35, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.38 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.39, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.40 and 5.41 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.42, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.43, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.44, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.45 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.46, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.47, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.48 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.49, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.50, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.51, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.52, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.53, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that Amendment 5.54 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.55, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5,56 is inadmissible. Amendment 5.57 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.58 (text 2), tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.59 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.60, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.61, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.62 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.63 (text 2), tabled by Senators Iannone and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that Amendments 5,64 to 5,67 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.68, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that Amendments 5,69 to 5,73 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G5.1 agenda, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G5.2 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G5.3 agenda, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G5.4 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.0.1 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u138	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, since the 1981 Act No 91 referred to in Amendment 5.0.2 was first mentioned by the Undersecretary, I would like you to take it into account. He said that precisely the law that was enacted when he was not yet born, in 1981, would also take equal opportunities into account. We prefer to reiterate them, because we did not find them in the decree-law, and we propose to add them. We therefore ask that the words "and in accordance with the principles of equal opportunities for women and men" be added to Article 2 of the above-mentioned law. If we ask it, it's because it's not there. Moreover, the periods are different, so it is appropriate to insist strongly on a principle that has never been applied. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u139	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.2 tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u140	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u141	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u142	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.1, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that Amendment 6.2 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.3, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.7, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.8, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.9 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u143	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u144	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u145	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that Amendments 7.2 to 7.12 have been withdrawn. Amendment 7.13 is inadmissible. Amendments 7.15 to 7.18 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.19, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 7.20 to 7.22 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.23, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u146	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u147	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u148	Amendments 8.1 to 8.7 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.9, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.10 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.11, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.13 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.14 tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 8.15 to 8.17 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 9, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u149	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 9. As far as agendas are concerned, I turn to the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u150	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on the amendments. I accept the agendas G9.1 and G9.2. I am also available to accept the G9.3 agenda as a recommendation, provided that the words:
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u151	Amendment 9.2 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.3, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.4, tabled by Senator Sbrollini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.5, tabled by Senator Sbrollini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.6 tabled by Senator Testor. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.7 tabled by Senator Sbrollini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.8 tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u154	SBROLLINI (PD). Mr President, with Amendment 9.10 as well as with the whole of Article 9, we call for the identification of general safety criteria for the sport practice of skiing on the slopes, ski mountaineering and other sports activities in skiing areas, for the definition of responsibilities for operators of installations and slopes and, above all, for sanctions when these obligations are not met. We therefore ask the Government to consider this amendment favourably.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u155	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.10 tabled by Senator Sbrollini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 9.11 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.13, tabled by Senator Sbrollini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.15 tabled by Senators Iannone and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.16 tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 918 tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G9.1 and G9.2 will not be put to the vote. Senator Iannone, you accept the Government's proposal to accept as a recommendation the agenda G9.3 by including at the beginning of the disposition the words: "A consider the opportunity to detoxify?" IANNONE (FdI). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G9.3 (text 2) agenda is accepted as a recommendation. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u156	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u158	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, our vote is against both the method and the merit. We have already explained this, but since the rapporteur, in a style that I appreciated, said that all the amendments will in some way be used by the Government in writing the delegated decrees, then we do not understand why we wanted to reject everything. In the same way, the Undersecretary said that the Government also intends to collect the content of the agendas in the writing of delegated decrees. It is a rather strange and incomprehensible reasoning and, moreover, it is incomprehensible why the Government has decided to make this force. I tell Senator Romeo that I had a question with respect to the bill delegates to our examination, because I didn't want to think that, after all, we wanted to express a logic of power. At this point, however, in the light of paragraph 633 of Article 1 of the Budget Law for 2019, which is also mentioned by the Undersecretary, basically there is an operation in which it is said that politics, for a reason of power and therefore consent, harming at this point the autonomy of sport, wants to determine how and where to allocate the resources. This is a serious mistake, which gives a little'sign of how, when you have the power, beyond the affirmations of principle and the commitments you have made, you always risk to say: "here we decide." The fact that perhaps in the experience behind us, the CONI may have made mistakes is there, as is the fact that a reform of sport is possible and necessary. What is not there is, in fact, the pervicacious will of the Government to decide him where to allocate the resources: of this it in fact treats the cited paragraph 633. Do you do it in the name of sports and volunteering? On all these objectives we agree, but if you had accepted our proposal to hold a serious debate, perhaps we could have built a measure that would have seen the whole House in favour of these objectives. In conclusion, I just want to say to Senator Romeo, who is certainly listening to me, that what he calls the letter, saying that the person who wrote it did not read the draft law delegates, also proposes the amendments. We do not understand, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, why you did not accept them, since you say that is exactly what you want to do. [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi]] Something is wrong, and that is why our vote will be strongly opposed. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u161	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we have said, since the first meetings in the hearings with the Undersecretary Giorgetti, that the world of sport needed profound reform (which, moreover, do not deny even the very actors of sport and in particular the CONI), but that we were firm and convinced supporters of the principle of autonomy and self-government of sport. The organic reform that we wanted, together with the representatives of the sports world and sports practitioners, does not seem to us to achieve at all. At most, we're in front of a "chopper." In fact, I would like to remind you that the first half of this game was written with a paragraph of the maxi amendment of budget law n.145 of 2018, when, basically, the CONI Servizi SpA was suppressed and was supplanted by Sport and Salute SpA. This measure comes in haste and as a task which, sincerely, is not recognized as necessary. In this connection, which provides for important and fundamental delegations to the Government, we find an installation that does not convince us; as well as we are not convinced by the method by which we arrived here today. We believe, in fact, that one had to listen in time and in a careful way to the wide world of sport, starting from the CONI. As my group leader said in general debate, we do not subscribe to the factions of Malagò or the Government: we are members of the defence of our sports world, of all those involved in it, especially those who practice basic sport. We believe that this lack of method in listening and comparison also represents a serious lack of substance. Despite this, we, as usual in our attitude, have put ourselves in a constructive way, presenting so many amendments and agendas, not in a obstructive function but in order to make a contribution so that the outline of this delegation may have a more just direction in our view. It is clear, in fact, as has been said by some subjects that have been audited, that history, we are all aware of it, will make it the third time, that is, the one in which the delegated decrees will make us understand in detail what and how we intend to act in many matters contained in these articles. We trust above all in this third period of the Government. We hope that this ability of comparison and this ability to listen will be recovered, because we must protect a world and also an institution, that of the CONI, which certainly does not represent the story of all Italian sport but still a story that has given our homeland so much satisfaction and so much lustre. We are always defending the institutions, it is our institutional culture that imposes it on us, because men pass by and institutions remain: when someone is wrong, democracy changes who is wrong, it is not that it abolishes institutions and representative bodies. Of course, at the same time we are convinced that a wrong path has been taken; we hope that there is time and space to make sure that we recover what has been lost on the road in the radicalisation of this confrontation. We told undersecretary Giorgetti that sport represents an important part of the social life of our nation, represents healthy values and lifestyles, millions of people who practice it; it represents the story of an Italy that does not give up, that wants to struggle and win. It seems a bit strange to me that about forty days ago we all celebrated the great news of the Winter Olympics (it was also done by those who in the past had said against the great sporting events) and after a few days, with a very tight and compressed comparison, we provide for this measure that certainly could and had to be more meditated. However, we still want to put trust in the Government and in the sensitivity to which we call, of the Undersecretary Giorgetti so that in the legislative decrees that will implement this measure there is the right sensitivity to get back on the right path. The concerns expressed by the IOC cannot pass into cavalry. We welcome and thank the Government for accepting some of our agendas, one of which is a recommendation, but we want to express a vote of abstention on the measure under consideration, as we have already done to the House, in the hope that, through the legislative decrees, we will correct an approach that cannot foresee an internal confrontation and a clash with the world of sport, because to us it has always been at heart and remains at heart the turnover of sport: passion. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u164	SBROLLINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the Government and, in particular, the Undersecretary Valente, since undersecretary Giorgetti did not feel that he was in the Chamber today, even though the draft law under consideration was intended by him. However, this delegation, as we have already said in the many speeches, is extremely extensive and even assigns twelve potential legislative delegations, all important and very delicate. I would like to mention just a few: I reorder the Italian National Olympic Committee, reorder the discipline of the limit of mandates in the governing bodies of sports institutions, school sports centres, introduction of the discipline for the transfer of the sport title, delegation and reordering of Law No 91 of 1981, discipline of mutuality in the field of professional sport, delegation on the recognition of the legal value of the degree in motor sciences. In short, many important issues are dealt with. For all these reasons, since from the beginning we told you that we would work together to write a single page, to make a serious sport reform, why have you instead, with arrogance and arrogance, chosen the path of the law delegation? [[Applause from the PD Group]] What's the rush? Why have you avoided any contact, any dialogue, any form of collaboration? You could also open a permanent table with the whole world of sport. Today you do a very serious damage, because for the first time this world you divide it, you break it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is not about being in favour or against someone, it is about doing the good of our territories, because sport is fundamental for growth, for personality, for the identity of the individual; it has a very high social function and I would like to emphasize this aspect, because it is important. We have repeatedly said that sport belongs to the same identity as a country, that sport should not have a political color, should be completely transparent and autonomous from politics. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Today this measure is a blow to the hands of politics, the Government, the League, Giorgetti to a world made up of millions of people, boys and girls. I am thinking above all of our future generations, of our young people, precisely because sport is a social garrison, it is a garrison of social security, of culture, of the prevention of many addictions. Do you know that in many countries of Europe, especially in the North, many addictions have been fought precisely with sport? Because sport has become for everyone and everyone, it has a very important economic value, it has a flywheel of development, I think of the great events, but what do I say to the undersecretary Valente, given what happened in Rome, when the mayor Raggi said no to the Olympics? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Today you really take a huge responsibility, because you have not found in any way a will to work together. You have rejected all the amendments that were not obstructive, but improvement amendments, to arrive at a better measure than what unfortunately you want to give us today, in which we could really do a lot, especially on some issues on which we had already worked in the past legislatures, with the Renzi Government and with the Gentiloni Government. Silveri, in which we pointed out some aspects. In particular, I am referring to the maternity fund for athletes for the first time set up. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , on the issue of equal opportunities, to finally combat all forms of discrimination and violence in sport and we know, unfortunately, how much there is even at the lowest levels, not only at the top levels. I am also thinking of the great theme of professionalism. We are in 2019 and we have not yet managed to make sure that women's sport can have that recognition it deserves, become all professional world: to recognize our athletes who are making us proud in the world a sacred right that is not only that of motherhood, but it is sports work, it is contributions, to have the right to build a sports career. Why didn't you want to discuss all these issues seriously? That is the question that we have asked you from the beginning, since we started work in the Commissions. We really do not understand what the reason is, except to do a political favor - yes - to the League, to Giorgetti, and I also address President Romeo, who today, once again, wanted to emphasize some aspects that are not true and I want to call them back. IOC is not a letter [[Applause from the PD Group]] , because it comes from an international body of which we are part, of which Italy is part. If you say Italy respects the Olympic Charter, why didn't you write it? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] President Bach's letter is very clear and even lists the critical points, concerns and sanctions that could reach Italy precisely by failing to respect the fundamental principles of the Olympic Charter. There are so many reasons why we think badly in this respect. Once again, therefore - as you have shown us now weekly, inside and outside the Chamber - even on a subject like this, which should know no distinctions, you have decided to put your hands on politics and the government with a blank delegation, forming a body, Sport and Health SpA, to which we know only that you will give 378 million euros. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , without organic planning of the world of sport and without understanding what will happen to basic sport. Once again, then, make a choice - of course - on where to put your hands, thus making a new organ of direct emanation of the Government and deciding who will be part of it. It does not end here, however, because it is obvious that in the coming days and weeks we will continue to explain the situation well to the world of sport, to the citizens and above all to the families who bring their children to the territories and ask only to have serious and safe structures, more spaces where to bring them and make them grow and new nurseries for the new generations, because we know how important the growth of new athletes and new athletes in our country is. I am sorry to have to stress once again that you have not heard anything, not even the world of sport, which is even more serious. For all these reasons, then, the Democratic Party will vote strongly against [[Applause from the PD Group]] , but with real regret for the fact that today you are causing serious damage to the world of sport: this, sincerely, we will not forgive you. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u167	RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is not an act of challenge, mistrust or, let alone, a downsizing of the CONI; it is neither arrogance nor the League, much less Giorgetti's, but an act of responsibility of a Government that has delegated sport to others for too long. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] It is a bill that arises from the demands of change that so far have affected many areas of life and will now also affect the world of sport, which is not only a football football, an obstacle race or a battle in the water, but culture, growth, economy, respect, socialization and responsibility. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] To the Italian National Olympic Committee, the CONI, go all our gratitude and all our thanks, especially following the obtaining of the Winter Olympics Milan-Cortina 2026. There is certainly a psychological and behavioural discomfort linked to the epochal change that the League wants in the world of Italian sport, but we believe it is time for the State to represent and protect sport. The same applies to the structure: the CONI are 40 million euros, 88 to Sport and Health SpA, 280 to sports organizations and federations, plus 60 in surplus in these last days. As admitted by the president of Sport and Salute SpA, if Italy is 24th out of 28 nations registered in sport, but stablely among the top ten in the world for medals that win, something needs to be changed in the culture of sport. The point from which to start for us are the schools: in Article 2, the State entrusts to the school commitment and sports behavior, enhancing graduates in motor sciences. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] The Government provides for interventions and investments in school structures and buildings, with the responsibility of following funding and completion. Article 4 of the bill represents an act of loyalty, passion and respect for the rules and protection of sport. In fact, in the last sixteen years there have been 146 failures of sports clubs, from Serie A to Serie D. And these are failures not only of sports clubs, but of a community and an entire nation. In order not to do so, and for greater control and cooperation, a People's Committee is planned to be set up alongside the College of Auditors. The fans will not be customers and spectators, but they will watch over any speculators, those who do not know the value, strength and magic of a jersey that adheres to the body. Such a popular share ownership, however, follows the Spanish and German models, where corporate property limits are set. The State, therefore, enters the field with duties and beliefs. The CONI does not go on the bench, anything else: the CONI stays and we ask him to continue to play, as he has done until today. In fact, the CONI is responsible for supervising and deciding on sports activities and relations with the different federations, associations, bodies and sports groups, in accordance with the rules of the IOC. In the measure, in addition to recognizing professional referees left to themselves at the end of their career as a working category, it clarifies and highlights - I invite the PD to see article 1, paragraph h) - the support for the growth and representation of women in sport. Moreover, thanks to the agenda accepted by the Government, it certifies the importance of the world of disability. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In Article 5, we take action to protect professional and amateur sports work, including in relation to criminal activities related to illegal betting. Convinced to believe in the sports world of youth, women and disabled people, we consider for the first time the figure of animals, in particular of the athlete horse, with norms and activities that recognize its value and sport nature. As Pierre de Coubertin said, to whom we owe the modern Olympics and who translated the sentence of Bishop Talbot, "The important thing is not to win but to participate." And today the government is ready to say: The important thing is to participate to make the sport win. That is why we will be voting for it very clearly. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u170	MOLES (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to say a few words about procedures. A bill of this magnitude would need a more in-depth examination - it has been said by many - with an in-depth analysis of the different points of view that were anchored as much as possible to criteria of objectivity. It is, in fact, a very wide and articulated delegation, which includes at least ten other delegated decrees. To approve it today, or in September it would have genuinely changed little. In the meantime, could the government start working on the delegated decrees? That was not the case. The Senate committee was forced to dismiss the measure in virtually one night sitting, which ended last night. Prior to this, only one session was devoted to hearings, during which, moreover, contradictions and some opposition to the text by some of the auditees also emerged. We are talking about a full-bodied measure, which completely rewrites skills on an articulated and complex subject such as that of Italian sport. We are talking about a very important sector, which covers 102 different sports and includes 384 sports disciplines. It's a sector that includes a lot of companies. (From 5.05 p.m. to 5.05 p.m.) (Following MOLES). There are about 59,000 sports clubs present in our territory, but above all 5,650,000 member athletes of national sports federations and associated sports disciplines. To these 5.5 million athletes must be added the expectations of more than 900,000 sports operators, which include corporate executives, technicians, race officers and those who have more, more put them. These numbers clearly represent the liveliness of Italian sport, which not only moves public money, but also many private resources, starting from the many companies that believe and invest in sporting events. Let us say this because it has been emphasized both in the debate in the Commission and in this House that we have noted a series of forces on the method and timing precisely on this reform of the sports system which should not create divisions. We were right to ask for further consideration of this measure when we voted on the timetable. There was certainly little in-depth discussion in the Commission, even on some of our amendments, but it was too little. Further study would have made it possible to try to harmonise at best various and different sensitivities not necessarily conflicting. If we have challenged the method, we strongly claim the merit, for Forza Italia, of having tried - and in some cases obtained - in the Commission, without instrumental obstructionism, a mediation between the contenders. I refer to the transformation of some of our amendments into agendas - this has also happened thanks to the openings of the Undersecretary of the Government - including the one that commits the Government, when implementing the delegation, to define the role of the CONI governing the Olympic activity in accordance with Article 27 of the Olympic Charter. There is also an agenda that provides that, in implementation of the delegation, it should be specified that the territorial bodies of the ICON represent it in the territory of competence, but that together with the central bodies contribute to the pursuit of the institutional tasks of the ICON. Finally, the Government has accepted our agenda which undertakes to take into account the identification of the figure of the sports worker in the specific sporting activity carried out and the economic, technical and organizational context in which it is provided. These are not bland commitments, but commitments concerning the implementation of delegations and the power of the agenda on delegation laws cannot remain a dead letter; on the contrary, they can and must be the instrument to improve and clarify; we will ensure that this happens. We would like the role of the ICON in the government of Olympic activity to be respected in accordance with Article 27. It is precisely our agenda, which refers to Article 27 of the Olympic Charter, that can and must be the bridge that allows the various contenders to approach, perhaps also to collect positively the demands received today by the IOC in the name of a supreme good that is sport. In conclusion, on such a broad measure, with positive elements, but also with various perplexities and worrying risks that we wanted to be escaped immediately, I announce the abstention vote of Forza Italia, waiting to verify, at the time of the implementation of the delegation, that all have as unique and real objective the good of Italian sport. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I would like to remind everyone that Italian sport is not a zero sum game where the winner determines the loss of another; it should be a game other than zero, where there is the contribution and cooperation of all for a supreme good. Italian sport is a heritage of all - no one excluded - and such must remain, without personalism. The country system in its entirety must - and I stress this - be at the service of Italian sport. We hope that, at the time of the implementation of the delegation, everyone will remember this. We hope that undersecretary Giorgetti - who we know is a person who tends to speak - will use the delegation with great judgment and that he will still compare in a profitable way with all the actors concerned and with the parliamentary committees before issuing the delegated decrees. I remember it at the conclusion: sport belongs to everyone, nobody excluded. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u173	PIARULLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the historic victory last achieved at the Olympic Committee in Lausanne can represent an incredible opportunity to start a reorganization of Italian sport which, based on efficiency and functionality, will lead Milan, Cortina, the Government, the CONI and the whole country to build a moment that can be a source of pride for all of us. To ensure that Milan-Cortina 2026 can become a model edition and an exemplary event, it will be necessary to avoid waste, delays, bureaucratic hiccups, while from the sporting point of view it will be important to plan the growth of athletes so that they have the opportunity to become champions. Italian sport needs a strong revival in the name of transparency, a considerable openness towards society through the recognition of the centrality of sport practice not only as an instrument of psychophysical well-being, but also of inclusion and aggregation. If it is true that sport serves society by providing vivid moments of excellence, now it is time to put the social role of sport at the centre of this country, because at the center of a healthy country there is sport culture, fundamental value through which the person becomes physically active and autonomous subject and, in a certain sense, better citizen. Sport promotes integration, so our objective must first be to ensure as long as possible for each individual to be able to engage in physical activity. But in order to do so, we need to look up; we need a horizon that is not limited to the immediate, a medium to long-term planning by the State. While in most Europe sport is perceived as the right of every citizen, which the institutions guarantee by promoting a qualified and complete offer that leads to increasing the base of practitioners, unfortunately this has not been the case in Italy. The past governments have shown little interest in the sports world by delegation almost totally every decision to the Italian National Olympic Committee. Hence the need for a uniform discipline for homogeneous sectors, for specific activities, and the need to combine the various provisions into a single text of sport, while the CONI will continue to focus on activities related to the Olympic Games, while respecting the autonomy of all players, to carry out supervisory tasks also to the directives of the International Olympic Committee, as well as the tasks of sport justice and a propulsive activity in favour of sport. There is a need for a new vision that is able to exalt the essence of sports practice by paying attention to training, education and small-medium federations. More balance between promotion and competition, less summitism in the structuring of the system in favor of a more inclusive and participated model; more investment in sports culture, dedicating resources to educational institutions and sports infrastructure. On the one hand, athletes, regardless of their status as professionals or amateurs, when they meet certain requirements, will have recognised their rights in insurance and social security matters. On the other hand, sports institutions in general will benefit from additional accounting, administrative and tax benefits. An innovation concerns the establishment of school sports centers, which will have the function of involving in a structured and more definite way compared to what happens to school leaders, teachers, but also students and their parents for the realization of projects and initiatives in sport. (17.15) (Follows PIARULLI). School sports centers will be able to entrust the development of sports disciplines exclusively to graduates in motor sciences or to graduates in the former higher institutes of physical education, that is to say to specialists, and will be open to local communities directly involving all the sports associations that insist on the territory in order to be able to best develop those projects considered as most inclusive as possible. Until now, sport was only for those who could afford it, not for everyone. This reform aims to give all young people the opportunity to participate in training activities. An important attention also concerns the safety of sports facilities, providing for the renovation of existing ones but also building ex novo facilities, bearing in mind that to date there are school complexes without gyms or with inaccessible gyms. With regard to equal opportunities, Article 1 (h) states that participation and representation of women in sport must take place in accordance with the principles of the Equal Opportunities Code, thus ensuring gender equality in access to sport at all levels. For all these reasons, I announce the vote in favour of Movimento 5 Stars to the measure. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u174	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u177	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would simply like to ask a large number of questions, which date even more than a year, to which the Government has never responded. It is precisely questions 3-00008, 3-00009, 3-00262, 3-00443, 3-00533, 3-00835, 3-00985, 3-01005, 3-01047, and, in writing, questions 4-00114, 4-00219, 4-00256, 4-00543, 4-00636, 4-00637, 4-00919, 4-01089, 4-01561, 4-01594, 4-01685, 4-01745, 4-01820 and 4-02002.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u180	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, I would not like to interrupt this festive atmosphere at the end of the season, but I must do so in order to highlight to the House a social drama that is taking place in Parliament's ignorance, in this case of the Senate. I am referring to the news in the newspapers today that there is a boom in foreclosures. 836 houses are put at auction a day that, if you multiply for three hundred and sixty-five days, count how many: about 300,000 houses in a year. It is a social drama which I find strange that this very majority does not take into account. Why don't you take that into account? Mr President, I tabled a bill on 2 April this year, the Senate Act 1191, which is still waiting to be examined and would allow these citizens who have the auction house (repeat: 836 a day) to be able to redeem it instead of being defrauded. At the same time I highlight to the Assembly that it is still waiting to be examined my other proposal of law of 4 October 2018, the Act Senate 788, which would allow the rescue of the Italian industrial system. Today, the private individuals (I am referring to the Prelios fund) reached an agreement with Banca Intesa Sanpaolo - I am referring to the parliamentarians of the League and the Movimento 5 Stars - to intervene in the rescue of the Italian industrial system. The Prelios fund together with Banca Intesa Sanpaolo have agreed to save those companies, whose credit has been called impaired, by buying them back. Imagine, the private individuals, the Italian shark (because we are talking about the biggest name: Fabrizio Palenzona) go on the field with Banca Intesa to do what Parliament refuses to do: it is to examine for a year a bill that would allow those who have their credit deteriorated to redeem it and return to Bonis. Parliament, this Parliament and this majority do not care, so banks and private funds go into the field to do what politics and the state should do. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u183	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, on 6 August 1863, one hundred and fifty-six years ago, there was the massacre of Pietrarsa, in the municipality of Portici, where my grandparents' grandparents were born. He remembers it today. In the history books we were taught to celebrate May 1, symbolic date to indicate what was called the Feast of Workers, in memory of the events that occurred in Chicago in 1886 and known as the Haymarket Uprising. The workers decided on that occasion to protest outside their factory and the police shot at the rioters by killing two: a fact that happened in America in 1886. What not everyone knows is that thirteen years earlier in Naples, in particular in Portici, a similar and much more serious event took place. We are in Pietrarsa, the Bourbon factory wanted by Ferdinand II of Bourbon. Before the nation was unified, this factory had about 1,200 workers, of whom 800 were specialized: it was the most profitable industry in the nation as a whole. With unification, by the hands of the rulers of the time, the factory was privatised and sold to engineer Draft for little money. Needless to say, in a few months workers and wages were reduced and hours increased: from 1,200, for example, they became 800 and then 600 and then even less. The discontent was so widespread that on August 6, 1863 the workers decided to stop the machines and play the siren as a sign of protest. The chief accountant Zimmerman called the commissioner Nicola Amore - the future mayor of Naples - who first sent the police and then brought in the targets. The latter shot the workers, killing four: Luigi Fabbricini, Aniello Marino, Domenico Del Grosso, Aniello Olivieri. From later studies we can say that there were other victims, but in the hospital, due to the injuries reported. Four men, four Neapolitan workers were killed because they tried to defend their rights. Let us remember this date. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u186	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I rise to ask for the answer to Question No 3 00992 of 9 July of this year, which asks to understand what is happening on what is called the Demon variant or the Maddalena State Road 21 in Valle Stura. We are in the presence of a road that today passes inside the inhabited center of Demonte, where every day more than 700 autoarticulates pass, which are compromising, in addition of course to the road (because this is a mountain country, whose central artery is very narrow), also the same static estate of the town of the Municipality, all shored. The amount of motor vehicles passing through the old town is insane from a practical point of view and just go there to check it out. Compared to this situation, a project that had already been included in the 2007-2011 ANAS programme was blocked in 2011 because it was considered too expensive by the government at the time. It was a project that passed north of the town and the government reported that it would study a less expensive project that would pass south of the town. At the end of last year, ANAS announced that it had completed all the necessary checks and surveys and that at the end of a public meeting with the local populations, this project had been presented. In May of this year the Ministry of Cultural Heritage seems to have advanced a series of reservations because the project would pass for a while in the gallery under an old fort and therefore would place constraints. Some Members and majority senators said that it was just an ordinary need for deepening but that there were no problems. Now, given that the rumors that the Ministry could block this initiative continue to circulate, with this question we simply asked to understand exactly what the situation is, because the level of alarm on the territory is very high. The mayor has arranged a meeting over the past few weeks just to figure out what's going on. I would ask, if possible, that we have an early response on this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u189	MATRISCIAN (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that three large groups, API-IP (old dealership), Maglione Srl (new dealership since 1 January 2019) and Autostrade per l'Italia, operating in the motorway sector, and a small company called Retail Real Estate Management Srl (RREM), which is trying to protect its workers. The story is connected to the start of the race for the custody of the unitary concession oil and not oil of the service station Le Risaie Ovest of Stroppiana, in the province of Vercelli, on the motorway section A26 Genova Voltri-Gravellona Toce, which was assigned by score to the Sweater Srl. To date, RREM has been operating for an extended period since January 2019; API and Autostrade have initially requested the return of the area on July 29th, then postponed until September. In all this the workers risk losing their job, considering that they are required to lay off without an agreement with the union organizations in order to guarantee the continuity of the contract of employment with the successor company, thus losing the rights acquired in these years of work, in addition to the uncertainty on the resumption that to date is guaranteed by a verbal reassurance and not undersigned. All this is a serious violation of the existing regulations on the protection of workers in the exchange of contracts. We cannot abandon these people to the arrogance of large groups, which once again try to profit on the shoulders of the weakest. Competition must be for the benefit of all and can only be so when workers' rights are guaranteed, in order to win competitions on a merit linked to the virtuosity of an enterprise; virtuosity which cannot be confused with the exploitation and abuse of its position of advantage. There are procedures to ensure the continuity of workers and these procedures must be respected. I hope that the relevant ministries will take action to clarify this indeterminate fact. You see, President, it's nine workers. It is a small enterprise that hides nine families and their concern about the loss of work, about the loss of pay. When the numbers are so small, unfortunately you cannot ask for the opening of tables at the Ministries. There are conditions for small businesses to fail. I bring to the attention of the House the problem of this small reality. There are very often similar incidents, so I hope that the relevant ministries will take note of them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u190	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u192	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, on 3 April I put to the Commission the question 3-00764, which is not particularly costly for Parliament's work, addressed to Mr Toninelli and concerning the plan, which had already emerged at that time, for the alleged completion of the Asti-Cuneo motorway. In four months, the Minister never answered this question, although I also explained in a certain detail the magnitude of the enormous gift that the Minister was preparing to make to a motorway dealership, after having declared war on the odious privileges of the motorway dealers. In fact, it plans to give between about 800 million and the billion euros. I tabled a question on 4 April. The minister never answered. He acted exactly in the direction on which I had put the question, but when the Daily Fact was last Sunday, that is the day before yesterday, he published an article about it, he felt obliged to respond immediately, the next day, with a letter to the newspaper. I therefore ask the Minister first of all not to give one billion Italian citizens to one of those motorway dealers against whom he had incongruously promised to wage war. We do not wage war on our companies, we make the right conditions, but we do not even give ourselves a billion Italian citizens. Secondly, it would also be hoped that it would have a little more balance between the newspapers - one, moreover - and Parliament, since at the moment the report is 1 to 120 (in one day it replied to the daily newspaper, in one hundred and twenty days it did not answer the question put in Parliament), all the more so since in this letter there are at least errors in mathematics. In fact, the Minister says that 200 million times 4 makes one billion and 200 million, which is not. The difference is the pure gift he gives to a dealer who has the great merit of not having completed a highway in thirty years. In the past, he had been given extensions of concessions. The Minister boasts that, unlike the Plan proposed by the former Minister Delrio, there will be no extension of the concession. In fact, instead of giving him the extension, he immediately gives him the money he would have collected with the extension, always at the expense of Italian citizens, to the detriment of the production system and probably also to the detriment of the completion of the Asti-Cuneo, which will be subject to a clear violation of European norms. Consequently, again this time, the yards will not leave and therefore perhaps that same dealer will continue to earn thanks to the fact that they have not finished the work for the third time in thirty years.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u195	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to make this communication. Crepe viscid snake. With these words, the president of the council of basin of the optimal territorial Verona, Bruno Fanton, enrolled to the League, has addressed via Facebook to Senator Emma Bonino, guilty of having criticized the inhuman politics of the Government during a television broadcast. First of all, I express my closeness and solidarity with my colleague Bonino, and I also think that of the Democratic Party, because he has legitimately expressed his thoughts, with the hope that he will continue to do so without any fear. [[Applause from the PD Group]] All Italians must express their thoughts without anyone wishing them even death. Well, that gentleman I think is a shameful man, who said shameful things that represent, of course, his level and human qualities as a professional hater. I believe that Italy cannot benefit from a ruling class, although local, of this type. The problem is not just what he said. The problem is that he said it in a context where it seems that this is legitimate, is tolerated. On the other hand, we live a period in which behaviors, phrases and policies have shifted the centre of gravity of the nation, which culturally has always been healthy, on the ridge of a division between similars, intolerance and personal aversion, which reaches to wish the death of others. In conclusion, such a country is destined for historical defeat. I think people like Fanton should be culturally isolated, because most Italians certainly don't think like him. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u196	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u198	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, in thanking my fellow Members for their solidarity, and I also imagine those who are absent, I would just like to point out that I have been insulting hundreds for a long time and I have never reacted, because I am convinced that insults qualify those who do them, much more than those who receive them. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In this case, however, I have the impression that in the last few days, as confirmed by several other episodes, we are overcoming a level, which has become almost threatening and obviously not because I die of fear, but because there is a qualitative leap, especially at institutional level. Big or small whether it's the institution this gentleman is part of, I think there's a time when someone needs to say that's enough. I think I'm a decent senator of this Senate, with my ideas, as well as others have theirs, and frankly I hope it's the Senate itself or some institution that ends it, as far as I'm concerned today, but that obviously could affect anyone. It must be made clear that political opponents are political opponents, but they are not enemies [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Nocerino]] and that we confront each other on ideas and not with threats. You have to put a term and an end to this go, which, once it starts, we know from the story where it ends. Thank you again for your solidarity. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Malan and Nocerino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u199	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-143.ana.u200	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, August 7, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.39 p.m.
