ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.08 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 25 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the 5 Star Movement Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u4	I communicate that on 25 July 2019 the following bill was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 53 of 14 June 2019 laying down urgent provisions on order and public security.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u5	[[The President and the Assembly stand]] Senators, as you know last July 26, died, while doing his duty, Mario Cerciello Rega, vice-burgadiere of the Carabinieri weapon in service in Rome. Mario Cerciello Rega had been married for just over a month, a fan of his Naples, active in volunteering, and had always distinguished himself as a model carabiniere, as evidenced by his state of service and the competition passed to become vice-burgadiere. On yesterday's day the funeral took place in its municipality of origin, Somma Vesuviana. The whole community, the whole of Italy, has drawn around the young wife Rosa Maria, family, friends and colleagues. The emotional participation in pain for the loss of a young man of such great moral values must also be an opportunity to remember the great debt that the whole nation owes to the body of the Carabinieri's weapon. In making my own the warning of the Commander General of the weapon, Giovanni Nistri, I believe that this must be the moment of respect and gratitude to those who, every day, are engaged in the territory to protect the legality and defense of the rights of each individual, to the extreme sacrifice, a sacrifice that when crossing the life of a young man at the service of the Homeland, becomes even more unacceptable. In memory of Mario Cerciello Rega, I invite you to a minute of recollection. [[The President and the Assembly observe a minute's silence. Applause]] THE RUSSIAN (FdI). (Addressed to the PD Group's desks). Get up! There's someone who doesn't think it's necessary to get up. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Sit down! Sit down!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u6	The next item is the joint debate on draft law No 944, already approved by the House of Deputies, and documents LXXXVI, No 2, and LXXXVII, No 2. The rapporteur on draft law No 944, Senator Simone Bossi, asked for authorization to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u7	Mr President, the annual draft law of the European delegation was presented by the Government on 26 September 2018 for its first reading in the Chamber of Deputies and was examined at first reading, from 22 to 23 articles. In the Commission, therefore, we have carried out a wide range of hearings on the various issues, from the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor to environmental directives. After the work done in the Commission, the draft law now consists of 26 articles and provides for the implementation of 26 directives, as well as providing for adaptation to 9 regulations and a European framework decision. Article 1 gives general delegation to the Government in order to implement the directives contained in the Annex, referred to in Article 32 of Law No 234 of 2012, including the principles of simplification of procedures, coordination with current disciplines, prohibition of gold plating, prohibition of the treatment of Italian citizens more unfavourable than those of other EU States and the provision of criminal sanctions only for the protection of constitutionally protected interests. Article 2 of the draft law provides for the usual legislative delegation for the adoption, within two years of the entry into force of the law, of provisions with criminal or administrative penalties for breaches of obligations contained in EU regulations or in European directives implemented administratively. Article 3, as amended in the Commission, sets out the specific principles and criteria for delegation, relating to the delegation conferred by Article 1 for the implementation of the 2017 EU Directive No 1371 on the protection of financial interests, known as the PIF Directive, concerning the fight against fraud affecting the financial interests of the European Union. Article 4 establishes a nine-month delegation for the adaptation of national law to the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 1939 of 2017 establishing the European Public Prosecutor. The article has been amended with a government amendment, with which five paragraphs have been inserted to dictate the transitional discipline that will regulate the procedure for the designation of the three candidates in place of European Prosecutor. Article 5 delegates the Government to the adaptation of national legislation to EU Regulation No 655 of 2014, on the procedure for the European Preservation Order on bank accounts, to facilitate the cross-border recovery of claims in civil and commercial matters. With the new Article 6, introduced by a government amendment, the Government is delegated to transpose the provisions of Council Framework Decision 2002/584/JHA of 13 June 2002 on the European arrest warrant and surrender procedures between Member States. Article 7 sets out the specific principles and criteria for delegation in order to implement EU Directive No 828 of 2017, which aims to promote a more conscious and stable involvement of shareholders in corporate governance and to simplify the exercise of their rights. Article 8 sets out the principles and guiding criteria for the implementation of the 2017 EU Directive No 1852 on dispute resolution mechanisms in tax matters in the European Union, aimed at ensuring the effective resolution of disputes relating to the interpretation and application of bilateral tax conventions and the EU Arbitration Convention. Article 9 delegates the delegation for the adaptation of national legislation to the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 1129 of 2017, which lays down the requirements for the drawing up, approval and distribution of the prospectus to be published for the public offer or admission to trading of securities on a regulated market. The Regulation repealed the existing legislation in order to reduce the burden on businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, while ensuring that investors are well informed about the products they are investing in. Article 10 delegates to the Government for the adaptation of national legislation to the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 1131 of 2017, on money market funds (MMFs), which are a short-term financing instrument for financial institutions, companies and public administrations. The legislation aims to ensure their stabilisation and a minimum level of liquidity, it also strengthens transparency requirements, to ensure that the investor correctly understands the risk profile and return of his investment. Article 11 delegates the Government to adapt its internal law, including the adoption of a single text, to EU Regulation No 2031 of 2016, on protection measures against organisms harmful to plants, and to EU Regulation No 625 of 2017 on health checks, limited to national legislation on plant health. Article 12 concerns the aforementioned EU Regulation No 625 of 2017, which, in addition to regulating controls on plant health, also regulates controls on food and feed, animal health and animal welfare and plant protection products. With a government amendment, Article 12 has been amended, in order to designate the Ministry of Health, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano and the local health companies, within their respective competence, as competent authorities responsible for organising or carrying out official controls and other official activities in specified areas, while leaving unchanged the designation of the Ministry of Health as the single coordinating and contact authority pursuant to Regulation EU No 625 of 2017. On the one hand, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism is identified as the authority responsible for organising or carrying out official controls and other official activities in specified cases and, on the other hand, as the liaison body for the exchange of communications between the competent authorities of the Member States. Article 13 has only been amended to eliminate the antinomy of dual delegation to the implementation of EU Directive 410 of 2018, contained both in Article 1 (which refers to Annex A containing the Directive) and in Article 13 itself. In this way, paragraph 1 refers to the delegation referred to in Article 1, while paragraph 2 delegates the Government to the implementation also of EU decision n. 1814 of 2015, as well as to the adaptation of national legislation to the provisions of EU regulation n. 2392 of 2017. The three acts in question are all related to the ETS greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system, which needs to be reworded and strengthened in order to reduce emissions by 43% compared to 2005, as set out in the 2030 Climate and Energy Framework, as confirmed under the Paris Agreement. Article 14 sets out the specific guiding principles and criteria for delegation for the implementation of EU Directive No 849 of 2018 on end-of-life vehicles, waste batteries and accumulators, and waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) by improving waste cycle management and, in particular, the quality of information flow from Member States to European authorities. The article has been amended by providing that, in the context of the harmonisation of the waste management system for batteries and accumulators with the waste management system for electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE), the possibility of a single management system is also considered. In addition, the Government is delegated to provide for measures that favour the voluntary withdrawal of "one against zero" WEEE waste from distributors that do not sell electrical and electronic equipment, which are usually thrown into the undifferentiated waste. Finally, it is expected to regulate the end of life of the Incentivised photovoltaic panels placed on the market before 12 April 2014, also providing for the involvement of the individual and collective systems referred to in Articles 9 and 10 of Legislative Decree No. 49 of 2014. Article 15 sets out the specific guiding principles and criteria for delegation for the implementation of EU Directive 850 of 2018, from the circular economy package to the waste landfill eligibility scheme. In this respect, the Directive requires that by 2030 recyclable waste should not be landfilled and that only 10% of the total municipal waste produced should be landfilled by 2035. The delegation also provides for the adoption of a new organic discipline on the use of sludge. Among the specific delegation criteria was added the one designed to define the modalities, the general criteria and the progressive objectives, also in coordination with the Regions, for the achievement of the targets set by the EU Directive n. 850 of 2018 in terms of maximum percentages of municipal waste that can be landfilled. In addition, thanks to the extensive cooperation of my colleagues, an important amendment on the complex problem of the end of waste was unanimously adopted in the Commission. Specifically, a new principle of delegation is inserted that asks the Government to reform the discipline of the cessation of the qualification of refusal. Moreover, the Government is delegated to provide that the authorisations in place on the date of entry into force of the legislative decree are without prejudice and can be renewed, possibly also for the purpose of adaptation to the best available technologies, together with the authorisations for which the application for renewal was submitted on the same date. Article 16 sets out the specific principles and criteria for delegation for the implementation of the 2018 EU Directive No 851 on waste and 2018 EU Directive No 852 on packaging and packaging waste. In particular, the article sets out specific guiding principles and criteria for reducing recycling and overcoming the waste traceability system (SISTRI). Among the delegation criteria, it was intended to encourage local composting practices such as domestic composting and community composting, in order to ensure the achievement of the new targets for the collection and recycling of municipal waste. Article 17 contains specific delegation principles and criteria for the implementation of the 2017 EU Directive No 2108 on safety standards for passenger ships. Article 19 sets out specific guiding principles and criteria for the implementation of the 2017 EU Directive No 2110 on a system of inspections for the safe operation of "ro-ro" passenger ships and high-speed passenger craft engaged in scheduled services. Article 20 sets out the specific principles and criteria for delegation, including the adoption of a single text, for the transposition of Euratom Directive No 59 of 2013. Article 21 delegates the Government to adapt, within 12 months, its national legislation to EU Regulation No 821 of 2017, which lays down obligations for importers in the Union regarding due diligence in the supply chain of certain raw materials originating in conflict or high-risk areas. With the new Article 22, introduced with a government amendment, the Government is delegated to adapt the national legislation on customs union to the provisions of the EU Implementing Regulation n. 2447 of 2015. The Regulation allows Member States to maintain the exchange rates of tariff quotas unchanged, to facilitate frequent exports of products originating in the Union and to fix standard import costs. Article 23 sets out specific delegation principles and criteria for the implementation of the 2018 EU Directive No 844 amending the legislation on energy performance in buildings and energy efficiency. The real estate sector is the source of around 36% of all CO2 emissions in the Union, and the Directive aims to achieve reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and to help strengthen the security of energy supply. Article 24 delegates the Government to adapt national legislation to EU Regulation No 1938 of 2017, concerning measures to ensure security of gas supply, in the event of a shortage of gas caused by interruptions in supplies or exceptionally high demand. The new Article 25 is intended to delegate the Government to implement the EU Directive No 692 of 2019 on common rules for the internal market in natural gas, exercising the right, provided for in the Directive itself, to refuse third countries if they so request access to the Italian sections of the transmission pipelines completed before 23 May 2019, as provided for in the Directive itself. Article 26, introduced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, lays down the specific principles and criteria for delegation, for the transposition of EU Directive 159 of 2017 implementing the Agreement on the 2007 Labour Convention in the fisheries sector of the International Labour Organisation, with a view to improving living and working conditions on board vessels and fishing vessels. Finally, to the twenty-four directives contained in Annex A, of which the Government is delegated to implement pursuant to Article 1, the 2018 EU Directive No 2002 on energy efficiency and the 2019 EU Directive No 692 on the internal market in natural gas have been added. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u8	She asked to speak to supplement the written report by Senator Giannuzzi, rapporteur on documents LXXXVI, No 2, and LXXXVII, No 2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u9	Mr President, I do not have much to add to this report, except for my thanks to the President of the Commission for the constant support he has given to our work and for the atmosphere he has given to our Commission, which today is the fabric of a wide-ranging constructive work. I would also like to extend my thanks to all my colleagues, both in the majority and in the minority, for having welcomed and taken up this atmosphere and for always giving our work as a Commission a very high level of constructiveness. As far as the report is concerned, which I know is already distributed and in the Minutes, I suppose it can be read. Mr President, I am available for reading, but I am going back to your decision.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u10	We have already acquired it, rapporteur. I note that the motions for resolutions to the programme and summary reports may be tabled before the conclusion of the general debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the law of a European delegation, which the Senate is about to approve, is in itself a large container of delegations given to the Government in order to transpose and initiate the implementation of the right of European derivation. It is therefore a tool that physiologically intervenes in different regulatory fields and covering many areas. The programme report on Italy's participation in the European Union is particularly important. The inspiring reason for this report is to direct Italy's participation in the European Union, with the aim of closing the ever wider gap between citizens and Brussels. This is an increasingly central issue, at a time when the policies of the individual acceding countries seem to focus exclusively - sometimes in a declared way, in other more surreptitious ways - on the recovery of autonomy and sovereignty or, more explicitly, on the protection of individuals and sometimes short-sighted particular interests, without any care of the general Community framework and the principle of subsidiarity which is - or should be - the basis of the European Pact. [[Brusio]] Mr President, I would like to ask for a moment's attention: there is a buzz that disturbs me in the continuation of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u12	I think the buzz is gone. Please continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u13	MARILOTTI (M5S). I said that the principle of subsidiarity is at the heart of the European Pact, as if the Union has in fact become a federation of individual egoisms. I will focus on a number of points which I consider particularly important, for example in the context of activities for the integrated maritime policy, the environmental pillar of which is Directive No 56 of 2008: an integrated strategy for the planning and management of maritime areas is envisaged, with the aim of promoting the sustainable development of the seas and oceans and developing a coordinated and coherent decision-making process with regard to the sectoral policies of the Union, affecting the seas, islands, coastal regions and the outermost regions. The Government will commit itself to the development and the updating of the norms relative to the reduction of the impact of polluting materials in the marine environment and will emphasize the activities of support to the eco-recycling of the naval means, in the perspective of the strategy of the circular economy. The sectoral policies of the Union which affect the seas and those who live there cannot, however, focus solely on environmental aspects; here it is a question of considering important problems for the economy and civil growth of a considerable proportion of Europeans, those of large and small islands; that is to say, the commitments never maintained on the principle of insularity that I am as dear as Sardinian. The European Union's competition policies ensure that companies compete fairly and on a level playing field in the European internal market: this principle is at the basis of the rules on competition and common growth, but it is largely disregarded. How, in fact, is it possible to claim that the regions operate on an equal footing? Let us take the cost of transport: the one on iron on the Italian peninsula or on the European continent has a unit cost to kilometer; the one on ship to and for Sardinia has a much greater unit cost and this surplus goes to increase the final cost with consequent reduction of the profit. What a level playing field! The same goes for energy, which costs more for the increased transport costs or the absence of a net, that metaneria, known to be less expensive. In this way, when, due to the inertia or blindness of the European authorities, regional realities with constitutional powers (as in the case of Sardinia) are forced to take exceptional measures aimed at rebalancing, the infringement procedure for violating the principles of competition is cut off, as if the infrastructural conditions of Maracalagonis could be compared with those of Paris or that the possibilities of the entrepreneurs of Serrenti are the same as those of Frankfurt. The island regions, but also the mountain areas, do not want favorable conditions, but rebalancing. They want to compete on equal terms, and this is a right enshrined, as well as in our Constitution, in European standards. A bill of popular initiative, which collected 120,000 signatures, filed here in the Senate, calls for the reinstatement in Constitution of the principle of insularity, too hastily removed with the reform of Title V. On behalf of the other Sardinian senators too, I would like to ask for a timetable as soon as possible so as to give more strength to our Government when negotiating with Brussels. In a resolution of 4 February 2016, the European Parliament requested that the Commission launch an in-depth study/analysis of the additional costs that the condition of insularity determines at the level of passenger and freight transport and energy supply systems, as well as market access, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. Resolution revealed itself, for now, dead letter. That is why it is important to start negotiations now. Today we are debating the delegation law and the programmatic report on Italy's participation in the policies of the European Union. This may help us to reflect, particularly today, on our relations with the European Union, because today we need to reflect more on this issue. Well, Mr President, we have harshly criticized the austerity policies of the European Union and we believe that the European Union must pursue broad, expansionary policies and fiscal, economic and social policies in order to try to tackle and overcome the crisis and difficulties of millions of European citizens; to overcome the problem of unemployment and the removal of social and economic inequalities that are still too present today. We believe in a Europe built on cultural, economic diversity, thus close to regional and local realities; a Europe of peoples and regions, based on the principle of subsidiarity, precisely. The 5 Star Movement has as its basic idea respect for autonomy, subsidiarity and self-government. Hence our idea of a different Europe, a Europe of peoples, local self-governments, regions, a Europe of cultures and languages; a European Union, in short, which gives rise to its legitimacy by the people. On 3 October 2018, the European Parliament and the Council adopted the Regulation establishing the single digital window. Citizens and businesses of the European Union, starting from 2020, will be able to benefit from cross-border assistance, advice and resolution services through a common interface available in all official languages of the Union. These include those recognised by the Strasbourg Charter back in 1992 (i.e. regional or minority languages); Charter signed by Italy, but not yet ratified, despite repeated demands from at least four legislators. It is time to heal this anomaly and to schedule as soon as possible the discussion on the bill deposited in the Senate, including what I myself deposited at the beginning of the legislature. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by referring to a great Europeanist: The European federation (...) did not intend to color an existing power in this or that way. It was the sober proposal to create a European democratic power. Thus Altiero Spinelli causticly commented on the defeat of his idea of Europe; but he did not give up until the end of his days. It is our task to continue this difficult but necessary journey. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u15	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, the President of the Commission and all the members of the 14th Commission. It is not a formal thank-you, but of substance, because in this passage to the Senate the work they have carried out, as a pivot with all the Commissions, in recent weeks and, in particular, in recent days, have shown how Parliament can positively contribute to the legislative process. It's an important signal. I will only focus on the articles that talk about the environment: one of the pillars of this delegation law. It is no coincidence, perhaps, that the debate takes place today: yesterday was the day of overexploitation, overshoot day, the day when we burned all the resources of one year of our planet. Well, for us the answer to this is not the "happy growth" but to be able to reverse the trend and give answers and also this law of delegation is for us the answer to the call made just today by Luca Parmitano from the space station, in reminding us how the deserts advance and reverse the glaciers. We believe that even with the measures contained in the delegation law under consideration the Government can identify - if we can say so - the Italian way to sustainability and the achievement of certain objectives that the European Union sets us, but that our country must necessarily decline in terms of sustainability also economic of the country system. What we believe can be done. Waiting for Europe to give us what we have asked and that we challenge other countries to do, excluding from the calculation of the deficit all the resources that we think it is necessary to use to combat climate change and actually realize the circular economy, the green economy (because only in this way, doing more and consuming less, we could give a global response), we have already included our small measures. I am thinking, for example, of the campaign that we intend to apply for WEEE, the collection of one against zero, in all commercial activities, because as long as we have four Italian regions, 25% of the population, below average, we are the 65 percent goal at European level, we will never be able to achieve it, until we can give a concrete answer to the end of waste problem, we will not be able to achieve the goals that we all share. Allow me then to conclude my speech by dedicating a passage to the issue of the end of waste, which has been disappearing for months between measures. After the positive passage, albeit limited, made with the unblocking yards that mainly covered the traditional materials, those normalized until 1998, it was necessary a choral effort to give a response to the hundreds of plants already present that had authorizations issued in progress, that they dealt with more advanced materials, that they risked to see blocked activities already in operation. Well that choral effort has been and I believe that the unanimous approval in the Commission of an amendment that makes clarity and takes another step in the right direction both the spirit and unfortunately the other countries, as the ruling class, always have and we Italians too often have only on the occasion of sporting events, when there is to cheer the National or when there is a moment of mourning or unity, as we have lived a moment ago remembering a military of the Carabinieri Arm. It is important that in the same spirit, as the leading class of the country, we continue to respond to a community that, even on the subject of the environment, cannot wait any longer to make it an opportunity for growth at the employment and economic level, so that it is a further flywheel. For centuries Italy has been at the forefront of many sectors; it can continue to be in this if, as a ruling class, we can provide the country with the answers it has been asking us for a long time. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u16	She's enlisted to speak Senator Giammanco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today is an excellent opportunity to address the issue of Community policies. We have spent months witnessing sterile controversy between the Government and the European institutions, controversy that has led us to isolation and that have not solved any of the problems that afflict our country, from migration policies to the need to obtain greater flexibility on our accounts. In a multi-state system, in which many fundamental decisions such as those relating to foreign policy and the defence of borders are also taken on an intergovernmental basis, it should be dealt with using the art of diplomacy, rather than resorting to muscular evidence that turns out to be propaganda, but not effective at all. Instead, we have come to the point that a vice-premier, Luigi Di Maio, has gone to visit the leaders of a subversive movement, that of yellow vests, putting the country in a condition of serious difficulty with a strategic partner like France. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] In recent days, the Finnish Presidency of the Council of the European Union has informed the competent Ministers of the different Member States of their work on the multiannual financial framework for the programme period 2021-2027. There are powers such as the United States, Russia, China, which would like to see a weak and divided Europe without the various resources needed to be able to play its role properly worldwide. On the contrary, we in Forza Italia believe that the unity of the European countries is necessary in order to be able to face these great nations on the same level. To this end, an appropriate budget is needed to support primarily economic and political challenges, but also military ones: a strong strategic link is needed between the different Member States that cannot and must not act alone on the global scenario. It is clear that the isolationist logic pursued by some political forces, which underestimate the positive facts of the process of integration of the Union, risks placing us in the conditions of duty then dealing with other world powers from negotiating positions of extreme disadvantage. The success of the negotiations on the formation of the new Community budget is crucial, of course, and especially for our Mezzogiorno. The UK's likely exit from the European Union following Brexit will require greater efforts from the governments of the remaining 27 states if the current financial allocations are to be maintained. Some prudential estimates made by the Commission tell us that there could be a reduction in the budget of between EUR 10 billion and EUR 12 billion per year, i.e. EUR 10 to 12 billion, or around 10% of the EU budget, could be missing. We therefore risk significant cuts, not only to the CAP, but also to cohesion policy funds. As we know, in the 2014-2020 programming there were four Italian regions with convergence objective, namely Puglia, Calabria, Campania and Sicily. Reducing these resources would be a fatal blow to the fragile economies of these areas, since Sicily and Calabria have been and still are the destination of continuous landings of immigrants. Confindustria, in its recent check-up on the Mezzogiorno, has launched a clear alarm: the youth unemployment rate in the South is 52 percent, i.e. more than one in two young people do not work; the total unemployed are 1.5 million and many more are the inactive. The number of active companies has also stopped growing, standing still at 1.7 million. It is evidence that a real change of pace is needed, but more than a year after the establishment of the current Government, the Executive has not been able to give answers that are not related to the welfare of citizenship income. What the Mezzogiorno needs is an extraordinary investment programme guaranteed by two principles: zero bureaucracy and facilitated taxation. We live in a split country that travels at two speeds. The deep gap between the South and the North is evident to all and the southern question, in fact, has never been resolved. We live in a country where the so-called Government of Change, which should have marked a turning point in the development of the South, has remained immobile, mortifying the hopes of many voters in the South. It is no coincidence that Minister Savona, who has spoken to us many times in the Commission about the need to make targeted investments, at a certain point, perhaps disappointed by the impossibility of giving a real direction to government policy, has renounced the Ministry and preferred another position. The common fisheries policy is certainly a key issue. A few weeks ago I tabled a question asking the Government to share more evenly the fishing quotas of bluefin tuna among the various companies operating in Italy. The Government, in fact, has severely penalized Sicily and, in particular, the trap of Favignana, pushing it to close its doors. This is unacceptable, but so far I have not been given an answer. The Government overrides; the Government does not decide; the Government acts as with the countless dossiers on the table. In my opinion, the Commission should be more committed to the development of our fisheries, without territorial distinctions and without facilitating either region. It is an activity that affects so many small entrepreneurs and there can be no children of a lesser God. Today, finally, after nine months of work in the Commission, the law of European delegation arrives in the Chamber 2018. The reasons for the delay are not a mystery: that the policy of this Government is blocked by opposing vetoes between the two political forces of the Executive is before everyone's eyes. The yellow-green majority is divided on everything and has also been able to discuss a measure that historically has always had a rapid iter, because it is basically shared between the various political forces. On the other hand, we have come to discuss this too. It should be pointed out that the unacceptable length of the parliamentary examination has already increased Italy's infringement procedures. We went from 59 of June 7, 2018 to 71 of July 2019. Having more is certainly no reason to boast, as some so-called sovereignist would like the Italians to believe. Having more infringement proceedings against our country means that we are paying an increasingly high bill to Europe and certainly, given the state of our public accounts, we cannot afford it! It was supposed to be the Government of Change, but it is the Government of the worsening, also in the area of migration: still nothing in fact regarding the so called reform of the Dublin Regulation. There are, then, even two lines of action opposed in the Government: that of Minister Moavero and that of Minister Salvini, with little coherence and credibility of Italy, which supports different positions at the various European tables. I think there should be no doubt about what the political priorities at Community level are at this historic stage. The first is to establish the principle of the obligatory redistribution of migrants landed on European territory among all - I stress all - the Member States. However, with the Giallorossi, the principle of voluntary activity prevailed, and every time an emergency occurs, a ridiculous ripple of responsibility opens up to convince individual states to welcome even a few migrants. This is not a solution to a problem which, in fact, remains unresolved. With these endless pulls and releases you only make propaganda, you collect some extra votes, some headlines in the newspapers, but you don't go to the heart of the problem. The migration issue is an epochal phenomenon that cannot be thought of solving with slogans: it is necessary to bring Europe to take on a more incisive role, whether by convincing the Member States to review Dublin, or by planning a real Marshall plan for Africa. We have been saying this for months with our President Antonio Tajani. More economic effort is needed towards African countries, strategic investments are needed. The development of the sub-Saharan countries is the real deterrent to the uncontrolled flow of economic migrants to our country: this is the solution. The second priority is the stabilisation of Libya. The Italian position is too obnoxious and confused. We have left political spaces that other states have occupied. We need a greater commitment, but we do not see it. Another crucial issue is the banking system and savers: in the Commission, the Government rejected, within the framework of the measure under discussion today, an agenda that would have committed it to guarantee the maximum patrimonial refreshment to those who have suffered losses due to bank failures, following the judgment of the Court of First Instance of the European Union on Banca Tercas. Frankly, we did not understand this fact on my agenda. We have always criticized the rigour of the European Commission in its mechanical application of complex rules on public finances and we have also stigmatized the same rigour in the management of banking crises, which has put our credit institutions in difficulty - indeed on their knees - and produced heavy capital losses for many savers. Now that a judgment has recognized the good reasons of Italy, frankly the Government could have acted accordingly and did not, could have said its own and did not. To be honest, at this point it comes to think that it only states in words that it wants to fight the bureaucrats in Brussels, but then, when it comes to action, it returns to the unconditional acceptance of what Brussels asks us to do. In conclusion, there are many, even too many, criticisms that we make of the policy with which the Government is managing the role of Italy in Europe, but, for love of our country, we will abstain on the measure under consideration. In conclusion, a recommendation is a must: let us make sure that the art of negotiations and diplomacy prevails, let us give greater space to competence and common sense, let us say no to useless and sterile evidence of strength: only in this way can the process of European integration really be carried out and be opportunities for new development and growth for our country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u18	She is registered to speak Senator Papaevangeliu. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the programme report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2019 is an important document, which testifies to the commitments and battles that our country intends to face in Europe. It is a document that clearly addresses important issues, ranging from economic and environmental policies to EU neighbourhood policies, and also the well-known phenomenon of immigration, which has been a central issue in the national and European debate in recent years and will continue to be a protagonist in the near future. It is therefore on this subject that I would like to concentrate, also in the light of the requests that Parliament makes to the Government in the motion for a majority resolution. We start from an incontrovertible fact: what we were told at the beginning of the legislature and during the first months of government was totally denied. We were told that the immigration problem would be impossible to control and manage. We were told that immigration was an irreversible factor, against which a State should have passively accepted the course of events, without any room for action. Everything we were told was denied, by facts and numbers, thanks to the action of the Government, especially the Minister of the Interior, our Matteo Salvini. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The numbers of the Department of Public Security speak clearly: from January to July 2019 about 3,000 people landed, compared with 17,000 in the same period of 2018 and 93,000 in the same interval of months of 2017. It is a reduction of as much as 82% compared to 2018 and 96 percent compared to 2017, demonstrating that a strong and determined national policy can lead to changes, in full respect of the principle of sovereignty that each country has on its own borders: a decidedly revolutionary fact if we think about what happened in previous years. But we come to analyze the phenomenon at European level. The important and obvious results that Italy has brought home in the field of immigration are fundamental, but still not enough. The migratory flow of the central Mediterranean - the one that primarily invests Italy - thanks to the repeated actions of the Government is now the least beaten trait for immigration coming from North Africa. But regional policies must be thought to solve the problem of flows in the other parts of the Mediterranean, such as the one that invests the Aegean Sea, which has returned to being the most beaten trait. The problem cannot and must not be underestimated by the European institutions and the increase in flows towards the Balkan route is a wake-up call that should make the summits of the European Union reflect. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be clear: the European Union cannot be just a bureaucratic machine, ready to impose its decisions and sanction a state that does not respect its strict economic dictates, as shown by the dramatic - and I stress dramatic - experience of Greece, which began in 2011, as well as the ongoing attacks against the economic policy initiatives of the Italian Government. It is also unacceptable that this European Union, which is ready to stand up against this or that other state when it comes to settling the accounts, should be completely disinterested in its own external borders, leaving the Mediterranean States alone. I would remind everyone - especially the hard-working defenders of the Schengen agreements - that these agreements, in order to survive and function effectively within the Member States, have as a consequence the strengthening and protection of the external borders of the European Union. If the internal borders of the Union are to fall, the external borders must therefore be strengthened in order to ensure the protection and security of European citizens. 16.05 p.m. (Following Papaevangeliu). It would also be worth pointing out, ladies and gentlemen, that the Schengen exaltors, those who see borders as a limitation and defence of them as an exclusively negative factor, pretend at the same time that they do not see what happens repeatedly in Ventimiglia, as if rejections were legitimate only when it is a different country from the Italian one. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I shall conclude by returning to the motion for a resolution and taking up what has been said during my speech. It is essential to point out that, among the various requests to the Government, there is a call for efforts at European level to find instruments and resources for a policy of border protection that can finally provide structural solutions to the migration problem, especially as regards the Mediterranean and the Balkan region. In fact, the defence of the Italian borders and of all the Mediterranean States interested in the migration phenomenon represents at the same time the defence of the European borders: the future and the security of the citizens, Italians and Europeans, and the very existence of our Continent. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u20	Senator Pisani Giuseppe is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u21	Mr President, I am speaking in general debate on the draft law of the European Delegation 2018 and, in particular, on Article 20, concerning the principles and criteria for the implementation of Directive 2013/59/Euratom, which lays down basic safety standards for the health protection of the population and workers against ionizing radiation. They shall apply to any exposure situation, planned or in emergency, involving a risk that cannot be overlooked in relation to the environment and in view of the protection of human health in the long term. Member States are asked to establish appropriate regulatory control to reflect for all exposure situations a radiation protection system based on the principles of justification, optimisation and limitation of doses. Specific rules prohibit or limit, in particular, the exposure of workers under the age of 18, pregnant or lactating women and apprentices and students. The provisions of the Directive require Member States to ensure an adequate level of information and training not only for workers exposed to ionized radiation but also for emergency services and medical personnel. Member States must identify a competent authority to carry out the tasks of the Directive and must establish a national action plan in order to address long-term risks arising from radon exposures in homes, public buildings and workplaces. It is also up to the Member States themselves to set up one or more inspection systems in order to enforce the legislation and to promote surveillance measures and corrective action that are necessary. In Italy the Directive will be implemented according to principles and delegation provisions currently under discussion, including: strengthening and optimising the protection of the environment from the harmful effects of radiation, taking into account, for the protection of human health in the long term, environmental criteria based on internationally recognised scientific data and recalled by the Euratom Directive itself, without prejudice to the provisions of Article 104 of Legislative Decree No 230 of 1995 on control of environmental radioactivity; rationalisation and simplification of authorisation procedures for the collection and transport of sources and radioactive waste, introducing specific sanctions in the event of a breach of nuclear safety and radiation protection standards for transport; the revision of requirements for information to patients; the recording and communication of doses due to medical procedures; the adoption of a level of diagnostic reference; the management of equipment, as well as the availability of equipment indicating the dose; the identification, together with the updating, of requirements, tasks and responsibilities of the professional figures involved in the health protection of workers and the population, including ensuring consistency and continuity with the provisions of the aforementioned legislative decree 17 March 1995; the availability of the necessary safeguards for the prevention of the environment; the upgrading of the requirements, the simplification of the tasks and the responsibilities of the responsibilities involved in the supervision of the health protection of workers and the public health and the population, including, ensuring consistency and continuity of the maintenance of the maintenance of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the necessary of the necessary of the necessary for the necessary for the necessary for the necessary for the provision of radiation to be made to be made to be made for the necessary for the provisioning of adequate for the protection of adequate for the protection of the protection of the protection of the protection of the appropriate facilities for the environment; the protection of the conditions for the conditions for the conditions for the conditions for the protection; the provision of the provision of the protection; the protection; the provision of the provision for the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision for the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the facilities for the facilities for the provision of the provision of the facilities for the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the facilities for the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision In the light of the above principles, it must be said that the new Euratom Directive reiterates fundamental concepts in the field of radiation protection. This discipline has become increasingly important, especially in the medical field, where ionized radiation is used for both diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. As certified by UNSCEAR 2008 (United Nations scientific committee on the effects of atomic radiation), the United Nations Scientific Committee for the Study of the Effects of Ionized Radiation, currently the main source of artificial exposure to the population in developed countries is linked to medical exposure. Our country has been equipped for about twenty years with an advanced regulatory system to guarantee the safety of citizens and operators, but surely it still has to overcome some critical issues that concern in particular radiation protection, placing itself on the same footing as other European countries. Among these issues, as was apparent at the hearing during the examination of the measure in the European Union's political Commission, some of them can be mentioned. First of all, the Euratom Directive clearly indicates the need for personnel using ionizing radiation for medical and veterinary purposes to have adequate training, as well as on radiological procedures, including radiation protection. The programme of radioprotection education should be carried out by universities in all three-year and master's degree courses, including in medicine and surgery. Specialization schools must provide specific radiation protection lessons. Continuing training and updating in radiation protection within the ECM programme should also be provided. The training programmes must be provided by scientific societies in the health area with the appropriate radiation protection skills geared to the patient and workers. Another aspect to consider concerns equipment. In Italy there is considerable difference in the technological level of the installed radiological machinery fleet, in their adherence to standards and in the level of computerization of health facilities. The Euratom Directive also introduces an obligation to provide information on the exposure dose to ionizing radiation. All equipment that will be installed after its transposition will have to explain this information to operators and patients, inter alia, to assess the dose of exposure to the population. Finally, it must be said that nothing changes in terms of health responsibility, remaining the responsibility of the medical specialist radiologist for the radiological performance both diagnostic and interventional. In order to ensure a correct pursuit of the justification principle, it should be the medical specialist in radiology, who is entrusted with the clinical responsibility of the patient's exposures, to assess and ensure the highest benefit-risk ratio for the patient himself. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u22	I have the pleasure to point out that there is a delegation from AGESCI, the Italian Catholic Guides and Scouts Association of Castellana-Grotte, who are attending our work. [[Applause]] I do it with particular pleasure, remembering my experience of scouting in the then ASCI that became AGESCI.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u23	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking today on the majority resolution on the programme report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2019. In doing so, I would like to focus on the aspects of the Union's foreign policy and on the commitments that the resolution requires the Government to bring and above all to enforce Italian interests in Europe, interests which the European institutions have all too often underestimated, endorsing and endorsing the actions that I have not been able to define as unholy Member States which, as allies, did not back down when it came to creating conflicts on our doorstep with the disastrous consequences that are still before everyone's eyes today. As stated in the resolution, the Italian commitment in Europe must be focused on keeping high attention on the southern shore of the Mediterranean. It must be said loudly: this geographical area cannot be relegated to the appendix to the European foreign agenda and cannot and must not go into the background, overtaken in the order of importance by political will which provide for the further enlargement of the Union in favour of other States. The southern shore of the Mediterranean is a fundamental area for our interests and our security, and it is for the entire continent. The European Union cannot continue to keep its head in the sand, isolating countries bordering on the main natural border dividing the continent from the North African region. In particular, in the resolution we call for priority to continue to promote a peace process in Libya, a process that is inclusive, under the aegis of the United Nations and that leads as quickly as possible to the cessation of the violence still taking place in the country. All this aimed at a democratic transition that must be firmly reaffirmed, first of all, can give real and lasting stability to Libya and the entire North African region, because the period of the crisis that started in Libya in 2011, and which seemed to have eased in recent years, risks bringing about a new instability in the region. Algeria is in the midst of a political crisis with a transition of power that, coupled with the serious economic situation, risks increasing the already many outbreaks of protests in the country. Tunisia, considered the only successful example of the "Arab Spring" is in a deep economic crisis, from which it fails to get out. Tunisia, moreover, as noted by our intelligence, happens departures of migratory routes considered dangerous because at high risk of jihadist infiltration. It should not be forgotten, from this point of view, that over 17% of ISIS foreign fighters in Syria and Iraq are of Tunisian origin and that the majority of foreign fighters in Libya are from Tunisia. The lack of stability in Libya and the increase in escalation can make the borders between the two countries even more porous. This involves, on the one hand, the risk of the contagion of violence and, on the other hand, it undermines the security of our own borders and endangers the security of the entire continent. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As has been said, attention must be paid to the North African region, because the instability of such a large geographical area involves two kinds of problems: first of all, great power gaps are created, which are filled by non-state actors who draw their profits from smuggling and smuggling migrants, a real shameful business in the hands of terrorist cells and criminal organizations. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Secondly, a large area without stability quickly becomes the scene of proxy wars, fought at low intensity and indirectly by the various regional powers; wars that are fought a few kilometers from our borders, a few kilometers from Europe's borders and Europe cannot stand by. Among other things, in short, it should also be understood who has an interest in continuing a state of instability in the Mediterranean, acting according to their own interests that are contrary to those of the Union and to those of Italy. Returning to us, as I said, Europe cannot stand by and that is why we in our motion for a resolution call for a high level of attention to the Mediterranean and at the same time strongly oppose Turkey's inclusion in the Union. European foreign policy priorities must be the stabilisation of North Africa, the control of migration and Balkan routes, and the fight against terrorism. These are the priorities, there is no room for dialogue and the possibility of the entry of a State that continues to carry out illegal actions repeatedly in the eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean Sea; actions, among other things, deeply damaging to our energy interests. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is a state that has since 2016 fallen into an unprecedented repressive spiral and has militarily occupied a part of a European state for over 40 years. Therefore, in our motion for a resolution we wanted to reiterate in black and white the Italian opposition to Turkey's potential accession to the European Union. Dialogue, trade relations, strategic importance for the control of migratory flows in the Balkan tract and the role in conflicts in the Middle East are good, but Europe is something else. Europe is something else, or rather it should be, and Italy must be firm on this. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress once again the importance that our country must have towards the so-called South Quadrant. It is in this area, that from North Africa it faces the Sahel where hundreds of millions of people live, that the European Union must develop long-term solutions and projects that can, on the one hand, create the conditions for a political and economic stability of the area and, on the other hand, reverse the migratory phenomenon. This really means implementing international cooperation. Only in this way will the European borders be safe and effective, and only in this way will Europe prove that it does not want to leave Italy and the other European states facing the Mediterranean alone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Only in this way will Europe be able to demonstrate that it is indeed the Europe of the rights of peoples, of all peoples. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the course of the examination in the Committee on Justice, I have prepared and filed a minority report which I thought should, in accordance with Rule 144-a of the Rules of Procedure, be annexed to the report in this House. I have seen that this has not happened, and I therefore formally request that it be annexed to the proceedings of today's sitting. Mr President, may I ask whether this request will be accepted, since I have asked for the application of a Rule of the Rules of Procedure? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Of course, yes, President Grasso. Grasso (Misto-Leu). Thank you, President. In particular, on the fight against transnational organized crime and on the modalities of judicial cooperation in the Community, I would like to propose some of those reflections in this House, in the hope that the majority will take this into account in the preparation, then, of the legislative decrees. Organised crime now has a supranational dimension. Fortunately, the idea that, in order to combat it, common judicial cooperation and full sharing of values and institutions, incriminating rules and procedural rules can no longer be excluded is becoming increasingly established. The establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is certainly a major step forward, as is the commendable action of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF), such as the action of Europol and Eurojust, Community bodies which pay for a lack of coordination and exchange of information. Given that the European Public Prosecutor and the cooperation of this office with the other European institutions are provided for in Article 3 (3) and Article 100 of the Regulation of the European Union 2017/1039, it seems absolutely essential, in my opinion, that the European delegation law that we are discussing envisages the possible adaptation of the internal law to the new Regulation of the European Union 2018/1727, approved on 14 November 2018, which precisely established some new rules with regard to the European Union Agency for Criminal Judicial Cooperation, known as Eurojust. This, in particular, can be done by defining the status of the national member, of his staff seconded to Eurojust, including the appointment procedure, identifying the powers and activities of the national member and establishing the access of the national members seconded to Eurojust to the national registers; in short, by establishing a form of national coordination of Eurojust to ensure, then, wider coordination of the work carried out and by providing for a mutual exchange of information between the judicial authorities and the national member seconded to Eurojust. In order to do this, it is necessary to make an amendment to administrative, procedural and legal rules in order to fully implement the forecasts of the new EU Regulation No 1727 of 2018, with particular regard to the provisions not directly applicable, and to coordinate the existing rules with that provided for, including the repeal of incompatible provisions. This is an opportunity which, in my opinion, must not be missed. I would also like to add another point. The delegated decrees that the Government will have to issue in implementation of this law of European delegation, in particular pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 1, letter g), will certainly have to define a new case of criminal organization composed of two or more persons, pursuant to the Council Framework Decision 2008/841/JHA of 24 October 2008 (which does not correspond to our associative crimes, which require, as known, at least three persons to form an association). In reviewing this case and therefore its aggravating circumstances for the fine crimes committed within that organisation, this could be a further opportunity to resolve with a legislative intervention, attributable to this delegation, the application problems and the legal disputes arising in relation to the aggression of transnational crime, which is now part of our article 61- bis of the penal code. This article provides for an increase in sentence from one third to half for all those offences punished with the penalty of imprisonment not less than three years in the commission of which an organized criminal group, engaged in criminal activities in more than one state, has contributed. What is the problem that creates this truly unhappy formulation? Interpretative contrasts have arisen as to the applicability of this aggravating of transnationality to associative crimes. In fact, according to the case law, otherness or diversity between the parties concerned, i.e. between the entity acting as an organized group and the multi-subjective reality benefiting from this contribution, this causal contribution. In this sense, in order to simplify, the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation consider that "organised criminal group" and "associazione per delinquere" are two distinct entities that cannot be superimposed in a minimum part. For this reason, the effect of transnationality is only applicable to associative cases where the contribution required by the rule is provided by an organised criminal group, of course different from the criminal association operating in more than one State. Perhaps an example is useful to understand this absolutely technical issue and to clarify the point: if the Colombian narcos, operating in several states, make a contribution to the association 'ndranghetista in the context of an international drug trafficking operation, then it can be considered that the impact of transnationality exists. On the other hand, if the 'ndrangheta alone sets out its own action in several States, the magistrates would not be allowed to challenge the association for the transnationality of its criminal activity. You see well how the paradox is evident and derives precisely from the interpretative judgment of the united sections: the direct consequence of the principle of otherness and between the structures implies, in fact, the possibility of applying a more severe penalty to an association for Italian criminals assisted by a transnational group. That is what we are asking for. In fact, the fight against transnational organized crime seems to be unable to ignore the fight against associative crimes committed in several states, because the latter criminal form determines, more often than not, the commission of transnational crimes in general. The question then arises: how is it possible to combat transnational organized crime without fighting criminal associations operating beyond their national borders? Paradoxically, it would be more logical and more consistent with the aims and the ratio of the European Public Prosecutor's institution that the involvement of transnationality was abstractly configurable also in the associative cases and therefore applicable to association as ours, as the 'ndrangheta and as the camorra. You understand that this means raising the weapons of the judiciary in the pursuit of extremely serious criminal activities and with supranational dimensions which, on the other hand, must be struck with great precision and accuracy, because of the greater danger of operating in several European and world states. I hope that the government can take these elements into account. These are technicalities, but they make a big difference. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u28	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, even with this law of European delegation 2018 the unstoppable transfer of national sovereignty to Europe continues. I refer in particular to Articles 3 and 4 of the draft law, i.e. those within the competence of the Justice Commission, of which I am a member, and in particular to the delegation to the Government for the adaptation of national legislation to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor, which Mr Grasso has just mentioned. You see, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor with a view to prosecuting financial crimes detrimental to the interests of the European Union is certainly a decision that deprives our judicial system of an important instrument to deal with the serious financial crimes that the European Union has as a part of offending, remembering, of course, that for this reason, the European Public Prosecutor will obviously have no competence in the matter of direct national taxes and VAT. It is true that the European Public Prosecutor and the European Assistant Prosecutors will necessarily have to prosecute, within each individual national State, the perpetrators of these serious crimes by complying with the legal instruments and operating instruments of each individual national State, but it is also true - and this is what we are most concerned about - that the European Public Prosecutor can invoke to himself the investigations of the national magistrates who are, always and in any case, obliged to communicate the conduct of these investigations to the European Public Prosecutor. Within five days - or in special cases of ten days - the European Public Prosecutor will be able to invoke to himself the investigations already initiated and already put in place by the individual national prosecutors. This risks being a cumbersome mechanism, which deprives our judicial authority of the power to proceed rapidly in the investigations it is carrying out, without having any guarantee that then, in turn, the European institutions have the capacity, the competence, the organization sufficient to continue in those investigations. What worries us most, always with regard to the transfer of sovereignty, especially with Articles 3 and 4 of this law of European delegation (Article 3 lays down the criteria for bringing our substantive criminal law into line with the principles laid down in the European regulation while Article 4 lays down rules of a procedural and institutional nature), is that European legislation already provides for the possibility of extending the powers of the European Public Prosecutor as well as, as I said, financial offences, including serious transnational crimes, which certainly include terrorism and organised crime. From this point of view, the concern is even greater. As everyone knows, in the fight against terrorism and, above all, in the fight against organised crime, the Italian judiciary and the Italian judicial system are at the forefront of many other countries of the European Union and certainly delegate investigations of this complexity, nature and danger to a European Public Prosecutor without knowing exactly what operational tools the European Public Prosecutor will then be able to act in practice raises doubts and concerns. For this reason, we have presented, through Senator Fazzolari, an agenda in the Commission, which has been accepted (and for this reason we express satisfaction), which commits the Government to use any useful initiative, even of a regulatory nature, to avoid new transfers of national sovereignty to the European Union, protecting the Italian criminal law, preserving in particular the law against mafias and organised crime. Senator Fazzolari will talk about it more widely later. We believe that these are the issues on which the European Public Prosecutor will soon want to extend its powers. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u29	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u30	Mr President, we are debating today in this House a bill of European delegation with a very serious delay, which testifies to the difficulty of this majority to conclude the adoption of important measures that affect our credibility among the Member States of the European Union, between old infringements and the risk of new procedures. I would like to remind you that our Government, the previous government, had reduced infringements from 99 to 62. With you, in a single year of government, I went up to 71, as my colleague mentioned earlier. It is a measure, this, which should specify how Italy participates in the process of European integration at a fundamental moment, however, such as what we are experiencing, after the elections on 26 May and the escaped risk of rejection of excessive debt, so far only postponed to the September examination; a way of working sobbing, which gave the impression of chasing choices rather than indicating roads and guidelines, in matters which are fundamental. The programme report is not courageous in relation to issues such as the new European budget, the European Monetary Fund and the Fund for Strategic Investments in support of structural reforms; weak in terms of defence and control of the external borders on the future of the Frontex agency; ambiguous in relation to relations with NATO and our geopolitical location; weak in terms of social issues and the Community welfare system, which is possible in order to overcome inequalities and social cohesion. Our country seems increasingly paralyzed, above all irrelevant, because it is even absent in the Councils where fundamental decisions are made that concern us closely; a country that appeared irrelevant in the process of nominations of the institutional summits, even for the election to the Presidency of the European Parliament by Davide Sassoli, of which we are proud, certain of the good work that will carry out in the interests of European democracy. The majority is also split in the vote for the Presidency of the European Commission; a European vote which clearly puts us in a state of political isolation: isolated at the hands of those same states that the current majority considers allies, who are the first to ask us for greater rigour in the public finances, without however granting any solidarity in the face of the common challenges, from immigration to relocations. Meanwhile, we continue to die in the Mediterranean. But this government chooses to stand on the side of those who want to defend the eastern borders with new walls, which history has already known and demolished, while it would have been more appropriate - in the interests of Italy - to support and not reject the amendment of the Treaty of Dublin; to maintain mandatory - and not to turn them into volunteers - relocations to other Member States. It would have been appropriate to push the European Union towards a common migration and asylum policy, recalling the Member States' shared responsibility. Avoid, therefore, turning migrants, shipwrecks and Europe every time into mere cases of political propaganda and you will have taken a first step to protect the interests of Italians. [[Applause from the PD Group]] ; progress towards greater and better European integration on key issues for our country, such as those contained in the draft delegation bill under consideration, starting precisely from the first articles for the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor, in relation to the fight against fraud affecting the financial interests of the European Union, strongly wanted by the PD in the last mandate. We also hope that the European Public Prosecutor will become a body with extensive powers in the field of enhanced judicial cooperation towards simplified procedures for the investigation and exchange of information and data, as already laid down in Article 86 of the founding Regulation. This majority, however, in the Commission, on the contrary, has chosen to vote on an agenda that goes exactly in the opposite direction: it regresses in relation to judicial and police cooperation. Not even too clear is the government's position in relation to Article 7, which reminds us of what remains to be done in Europe in terms of harmonisation in tax matters. There is no doubt that the single market for internal competition and state aid will not be completed without a process of bringing the various tax regulations in the Member States closer together. Article 13 deals, instead, with the crucial issue of waste, calling to responsibility the different levels of government - local, regional and national - in order to end a life cycle of products from their design, reuse, disposal and thus give full fulfillment to the circular economy, between public and private responsibility, between sanctions and incentives. Climate change and green Europe are a political priority declared by the new president Ursula von der Leyen himself in his settlement programme. It is therefore a positive proposal to set up a European Bank for the financing of strategic investments in the ecological conversion of the economy. Of course, the government should tell us why the allies of this majority in the European Council voted against the proposal to reduce carbon emissions by 2050. Certainly, the position of the Democratic Party is clear; it was written in the motion we proposed to the Assembly, which you rejected, with which we committed the Government to declare the state of environmental and climate emergency, in order to immediately adopt concrete and effective measures towards a green new deal of real ecological disarmament. It is clear, in fact, how many climate changes also compromise the economic and social balance in the world and determine geopolitical balances. For this reason, we want Europe to be the protagonist of the great powers, of the new giants and of the new relationships of force, but it is clear that this horizon does not belong to the majority of government, which goes exactly in the opposite direction. In particular, it seems to us to go eastwards, towards Russia; the uncertain boundary that you outline between foreign policy, energy policy and the possibility of the judiciary, of funds from international corruption. Heavy shadows obscure the credibility of our country and undermine the independence and maintenance of our democracy; shadows on which this Parliament would be entitled to definitive clarification by Minister Salvini [[Applause from the PD Group]] , which even seems to respond to the orders of a Russian ambassador: unacceptable interference. However, the Europe we want is not just a coven of national interests. And it is not for us an exogenous factor - something else from us - but it is a government tool to manage the distortions, to answer the new questions of protection towards sustainable and inclusive development. For now, however, the impression is that the only real priority of the government is security. The only security today is that we are increasingly isolated in Europe and the Western world. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u31	She's registered to speak Senator Pucciarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u32	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the law of the European delegation 2019 falls at a very delicate time for our international policy and for the relations we have with the European Union. Europe has recently lost the last chance to change course and overcome the climate of mistrust and resentment that has been created among the peoples of the old continent because of the so-called austerity policies. Unfortunately - as we have seen - the European elections have taught nothing to those who sit in Brussels buildings. The very fact that the new President of the European Commission was elected for a handful of votes did not reflect the supporters of the Europe of banks and bureaucrats; a Europe that, in order to survive, must seek within it the most unnatural alliances, to which also a European People's Party, now without leadership and prospects, has submitted. We are witnessing a genuine aggression of the Community institutions towards Italy, on the basis of the principle that the primary objective of the political action of the European institutions is no longer - if ever has been - to deal with social issues, climate change or the challenges posed to continental security, but it is constantly attacking the League. Even in the law of European delegation that we are discussing, it is visible, in a way that is not too hidden, a normative system contrary to what Italy and the other Mediterranean countries really need. If we exclude the methodological norms of a general nature, we can easily find a deaf regulatory orientation to Italian needs and demands, so much so that we suspect that someone in Europe works by doing just the principle of the "so much worse, so much better." Of course, Article 1, which lays down the principle of the maximum simplification of measures in the implementation of European directives, provides for equal treatment of Italian citizens with those of other Member States. However, the question arises as to how many companies, by implementing a European directive, have really seen their activities simplified. I would say a few, since often the consequence of Europe's interventions was even the closure of productive realities and not their facilitation. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] In the area of equal treatment, it would also be necessary to ensure that this was effectively guaranteed in all regulatory areas, especially in the labour market, where the race to reduce production costs is due to the exploitation of existing wage dumping. Strong action should be taken, simply by applying the rules on employment contracts in force in the country in which the service is carried out. Unfortunately, however, these prospects are not so easy to pursue as they seem and hardly a European Commission as fragile will solve structural problems such as those we have mentioned, also because very often it lacks the will to solve them for real. On the other hand, we find a legal monstrosity in the European delegation law under consideration - of which I have just heard Mrs Ginetti boast - which we have not been able to defuse because of the agreements made in the past, when the Minister of Justice was Orlando and the whole country was led by the Democratic Party. We then offered our support for yet another European interference through so-called enhanced judicial cooperation, paving the way for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor, i.e. by taking the first step towards the European judicial authority. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] What is certain is that with us he will not have an inch, or even a millimetre more competence than was established by the Democratic Party. In fact, the intention of the then Minister Orlando was not to stop at this level, but to further expand the powers of the prosecutor - as Mrs Ginetti said - criticizing countries in disagreement with this design because, according to the former Minister, a short-sighted concern prevailed in them. Well, dear fellow citizen - since former Minister Orlando is from my own city - those countries had as their sole objective the national interest: a concept I would say quite unknown to you of the Democratic Party, as we have been able to verify. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Similarly, they reflect Articles 10 and 11, in which mention is made of the pathologies, a long-standing problem that has affected, in the specific case of xylella, our production of olive oil, devastating literally entire landscapes of Puglia and giving a hard blow to our production sector. Well, can we appreciate that Europe is trying to provide answers, I would say very late, to a problem that we have had to tackle entirely on our own? In this regard, Mr President, allow me to thank the work of Mr Centinario, who has been able to offer, on his own, unpredicted answers to a truly desperate situation. Let me also say that, while on xylella Europe arrived when in Puglia the desert had taken the place of olive groves, it was very diligent and timely when it came to facilitating imports of Tunisian oil, in order to put competing products from an economic system that has much lower production costs into the internal market. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The question arises as to why similar operations are not carried out with non-European products capable of damaging the French and German economies. And the answer is simple: those are the economies that direct the external and internal economic policy of the euro area. All this happens with the blessing of a large part of our own intellectual class and part of our political class, the one that - to be precise - cheers for NGOs and goes hand in hand with Soros. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] When we are talking about a double-speed Europe in the European debate, it should be borne in mind that double-speed has been going on for a long time and it is because European rules penalise us and benefit others. It is no coincidence that, since this parliamentary majority was formed, the work of the 14th The Commission has also, and above all, done everything possible to limit the damage that the reception of European rules inevitably brings with it. If safeguarding our nation means running into an infringement, then the infringements will well come. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] Some European parties, instead of calling for health cordons, should wonder why every vote on Community issues Italians say that they no longer want that kind of Europe, that is, an institution that clearly works to bring our country to its knees. Mr President, in the aftermath of the European elections, the ruling class that has so far ruled the European Union and brought us to the brink of the abyss could choose between sticking to its positions that have been overcome by time and the desire for change of peoples or coming to terms with reality. Unfortunately, the first option has been preferred and we are now with a President of the European Commission who even questions the right of the Italian Government to express a figure in the number of Commissioners and a President of the European Parliament belonging to the PD, that is to say, a party that has lost the election resoundingly by halving its votes. MIRABELLI (PD). What's that got to do with anything? Mr Pucciarelli (L-SP-PSd'Az). On this last point, perhaps, our European partners are amazed, but we Italians are not surprised. Ladies and gentlemen of the PD, we know very well that you do not scruple to govern without having the right to rule. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u33	Don't talk to colleagues. I beg you to lower your voices. Speak directly to the Presidency, my colleague. [[Comments of Senators Pharaoh and Laus]] Mr President, I would like to address you, if I am left with the right to express myself, or else take action and get those who disturb you out of the Chamber. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Pharaoh, I'm hearing some blasts coming from an underground pyramid. Don't worry about it and don't make that noise. President, if they came from a pyramid, they would be valuable. Sadly, it's not even like that. We are well aware that the PD is not unscrupulous in governing without having the right to rule. [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] President. - I call you to order, Senator Pharaoh. My colleague is making a speech and I have already told her not to address her colleagues, but she can express herself as she wants without offending anyone, while there are no cave noises like those I have heard. President, I have not offended anyone. I just made an assessment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't talk to colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u34	I did turn to her. We know how he is a forerunner of counsel and able to suggest solutions to problems when he is in opposition. Too bad that most of the time problems come from their own political choices of the past. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The only positive note of our battle against the Europe of bankers is that Italians have very clear who betrayed our country for a plate of lentils and who, instead, is defending it with nails and teeth. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I think it is necessary to stress that, if this law of European delegation is less harmful than those voted in the past, it is thanks to the vigilance of the League, which was voted by the Italians to do the interests of the country. Despite all the instrumental attacks that we often and willingly suffer, we continue to do so because, beyond the theater of politics, there is a people who no longer believe in this stepmother Europe. Yet, he continues to believe and hope that another Europe will be possible, the Europe of the peoples for which we work. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Today the Eurosceptics are the only Europeanists; all the others are the silly servants of the foreign powers. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I repeat: Italian citizens are well aware of this. Thank you for the example of democracy that you systematically demonstrate. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u35	I do not understand why opinions can be challenged, which certainly do not belong to a part of this House, but which are expressed in a normal way... BELLANOVA (PD). Did silly servants become a compliment? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. - Okay. Shut up for a second. Wait till he finishes talking and try to shut up when it's not his turn. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so. BELLANOVA (PD). Just serve! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Again!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to interrupt this moment of frankness between the Groups, but I have asked to be able to say a few words with regard to an act which I was perhaps expecting from a more political than a technical point of view. This act has arrived - as you well know - with the signature of the then Minister Savona. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u37	Senator Bellanova, exceptionally, let's pretend he wants to intervene on the order of business, so we all know what he has to say. Please tell us, so that you may stop speaking while colleagues speak. If you have something to say, ask to speak and I will give you the floor. Otherwise, refrain from disturbing. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Take it back, Senator Modena.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u38	I am interested, from a political point of view, not so much in the draft law delegation, which has been seen, analysed and illustrated also by my colleagues in the Group, but in the programmatic report on Italy's participation in the European Union, which was presented in December 2018, signed by the then Minister Savona. Meanwhile, I am interested in understanding how Minister Savona had prepared the programmatic report. We all remember the story of Minister Savona, but I would like to recall her again here. As you will recall, on 27 May 2018 - it seems to be another era, so much so that it seems to speak of a past legislature - the proposal to appoint Minister Savona was the subject of perplexity on the part of the President of the Republic, because of the positions on the euro of Savona himself. I do not know if you remember that President Conte even put back the mandate for the question of Savona and it came out a trouble, so much so that on the part of the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars there was the famous proposal of putting in charge of the President of the Republic, which was withdrawn at a certain speed. The TAV pales in comparison to the question of President Mattarella. Afterwards the situation recovered more or less; a sort of directing booth was made and then the Minister, after presenting the programmatic report under consideration - as we all know - is "planed" to the Presidency of the National Commission for Companies and Stock Exchange (Consob). The report has, however, remained with the content that I am pleased to discuss here. The fundamental point, also taken up by the rapporteur, Senator Giannuzzi, is the introductory part precisely signed by the then Minister Savona, in which it is said that the basic problem is that, in the face of a Europe that has a regulatory structure that can be equated with a real State, there are no structures that make Europe a State or a federation of States. So - let's talk not about the draft delegation law, but about the programmatic report, which I think is even more important, because it contains what the government wants to do with Europe and, therefore, it is the most important thing in terms of the gaze that needs to be given - at this point the heart of the programme should be this. Of course we are not talking about it today, perhaps because, apart from those who have decided to analyse their issues of the Commission, we have the post-European debate behind us. Colleagues, between what is said with reference to the relationship with Europe and what is then written not only and not so much in the law delegation - it is now a sort of omnibus measure - but especially in the part of the programmatic relationship, there is an abyss, which you can verify if you go to see also superficially. Some have rightly pointed out that some parts of the programmatic report have been copied, or in any case they are quite similar to those drawn up by the previous government. We were faced with a very clear impact of words, always with the issue of Europe, starting with immigration, while - then - in fact there is no real policy effort and I am referring not so much to us against Europe, but rather to what we want to define as a policy approach towards Europe. I believe that this is the problem that emerges from today's debate and from the acts that we are examining, because the object is not caught in the most important issues that should certainly characterize us. From here - for example - what Mr Pellegrini said earlier in foreign policy emerges and what is written in the programmatic report, which, following the logics, sees us more focused towards Africa, quite uncertain about Venezuela - it is written black on white - and careful - for charity - to the part relating to the United Nations, but always in an extremely nuanced way. On the other hand, it does not highlight - and this strikes me, because it is something that the majority forces should perhaps have deepened - some important issues such as European civil protection. Mr Balboni has rightly pointed out some substantial shortcomings in the concept of the European Public Prosecutor, which is of a financial nature, but, in my opinion, it is a missed opportunity for the part, about which we are talking, but without being developed, about civil protection, which we are certainly interested in. To sum up - and I shall conclude - I believe that what is said must be linked to what is written, because what is written in the acts remains, while what is declared can always be denied. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u39	Senator La Mura is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u40	Mr President, yesterday, 29 July, we consumed all the earth's resources available for 2019, according to the Global Footprint Network report. So let's start consuming more water, soil, and food for the next few months than the earth can produce. In Italy the Earth Overshoot Day was even on May 15, two and a half months before the world. In Italy we have consumed resources equivalent to 4.44 hectares overall, compared to only 0.9 hectares available. It is an ecological footprint that highlights a way of life far from the objectives of sobriety to which we should strive. The factors that lead a country to resource depletion are essentially how this builds cities and provides energy, how its citizens feed and how many inhabitants it counts. It is from this specific and very worrying fact that I want to start by reporting on some significant aspects of the European directives that we will transpose in the field of the environment. Some directives included in the draft law under discussion today are part of the Clean Energy package for all Europeans, prepared by the European Commission in 2016, to achieve the objective of climate neutrality by 2050 by improving the energy performance of buildings - we know that we are responsible for about 40% of energy consumption and 36% of CO2 emissions - as well as for energy efficiency (20 percent by 2020 and 32.5 percent by 2030). The draft of PNIEC (Integrated National Plan for Energy and Climate) provides for a real estate assets of more than 14.5 million public and private buildings an indicative saving target of 5.7 megatep by 2030. I am sure that the Government will improve the expected objective, also thanks to the contribution of the comments from the public and technical consultation carried out in recent months on the Mise website to the recommendations of the European Commission, but also by strengthening and making more stable the measures already put in place in the last financial year, which has linked the actions of energy efficiency with the safety of the buildings. In addition, at the hearing held in June 2019 at the European Union Environment, Production and Policy Commissions of the House and in conjunction with the Joint Committees Industry, Trade, Tourism, Territory, Environment, Environmental Goods, and Policies of the European Union of the Senate, the European Commissioner for Climate Action and Energy underlined the importance of an ambitious long-term strategy for the European Union's transition to climate neutrality to be adopted by 2020 with a view to the United Nations Framework Convention. This is a significant economic commitment, for which the European Commission has proposed to increase the share of climate spending to 25% for the EU budget from 2021 to 2027 (i.e. one in four euros could be spent on climate and clean energy); on the other hand, the European Parliament is in favour of spending 30%. With this ambitious scenario, Italy would expect an increase compared to the current 34 billion EU and national funding to be allocated to climate action, to which 13 more would be added from the revenues of EU ETS (Emission Trading Scheme) auctions. In its communication presented in November 2018, the European Commission recalled the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change on global warming (at 1.5 degrees Celsius), which highlights the need to contain the increase in global average temperature within this value, through a concrete commitment aimed at achieving the result of zero net CO2 emissions by 2050 at global level, on which Minister Costa reportedly promoted in Europe, since there are European countries that do not agree and want to move emissions neutrality beyond 2050. Among the various European measures is also to support populations in the transition to a circular economy focused on the sustainable use of resources and at the same time a strict policy on the contrast to disposable plastic, with the aim that by 2050 it will no longer end up plastic in the oceans. The European Union therefore aims to prevent the formation of waste through three main instruments: the design and implementation of products with a long life cycle and non-polluting components; the strengthening of the extensive responsibility of the producer; and the appropriate involvement of consumers. It should be recalled that this approach clearly emerges from the reading of the preambles of the directives to be transposed and finds in Article 4 of the Basic Waste Directive, which defines its hierarchy, a fundamental regulatory reference. According to the waste hierarchy, which is binding in the definition of waste management policies, our country, like the other Member States, is obliged to observe the following order of priority: prevention, preparation for reuse and recycling. With regard to the energy recovery measure, I would like to point out that the PNIEC 2019 proposal, on page 60, provides for the reduction of waste heat-to-energy requirements and the limitation of the use of biomass for reasons of emission reduction. I cannot fail to focus on the recycling economy, on the specific delegation introduced for the further amendment on the end of waste. In this regard, it is worth noting the complex and presumably not yet completed work to meet the needs of the recycling world without sacrificing the protection of the environment and health. I would like to focus again on Article 16, which contains the specific criteria and principles for the delegation of the directives on waste and packaging waste, with the introduction of a real obligation to separate collection of organic waste, with related recycling targets to be achieved by 31 December 2020. This obligation was accompanied by the encouragement of proximity composting which, together with industrial composting, is able, through the production of compost, to return organic substance to impoverished soils. Particular attention should be paid to the problem of waste dispersed in the environment of plastic packaging, especially at sea, in line with the so-called sea-saving bill, currently under consideration by the House, which allows fishermen to recover waste at sea without incurring criminal liability and, once on the ground, to differentiate them. Only through specific counter-measures will it be possible to contribute to the achievement of the 2030 Agenda objective of preventing and reducing marine pollution by 2025 and achieving the objective of the good environmental status of the marine environment by 2020, as set out in the Marine Strategy Framework Directive. In my speech, I have omitted a number of important aspects of the directives that we will transpose for lack of time but also for the complexity and breadth of the environmental issues involved. The energy transition and that of the transformation of waste into a resource, in which we are entering, are in fact a transition to the new global economic model that requires us to act on a time horizon of thirty years but with many goals very close to each other. It is a challenge that forces us to look to the world by crossing geographical and administrative boundaries and above all by adopting new lifestyles. In this challenge, from the point of view of those who, like me, deal with natural ecosystems, the real absence is nature. We are impoverishing natural capital and its ecosystem services, reducing the space of regeneration of Earth's biotic and abiotic matrixes, the only place where we can live, which support our economy. We must strongly reduce our ecological footprint, reduce the consumption and depletion of soil, sea and air ecosystems. The climate engine is at its peak and it is complicated to slow it down to make life on earth still sustainable. President. - I conclude by calling on Parliament and the Government, but also the citizens, to put together the forces to face this challenge. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u41	The joint general debate is closed. I call Senator Bossi Simone, rapporteur on draft law No 944.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u42	Mr President, my reply will be very brief, because I will only make two comments. Firstly, I would like to give a tip: the work of the European delegation law - it is true - has been long, perhaps too long. However, 26 articles are really many and, if you want to deal with them correctly and you want to examine the accompanying regulations with responsibility, you have to have time to read, deepen and try to give answers to people who can't do this at home. This is our job. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I think that other people have done it lightly before us, and so we have decided to do it with a great deal of responsibility. Having said that, first of all, I too thank the entire Commission for its excellent work and for its deepening. Having listened to all of today's speeches, I feel obliged to make a few points in my reply. Firstly, with regard to Article 4, in reply to minorities, I would like to repeat what has been said several times in the Commission: a greater involvement of the Supreme Council of the judiciary would in our opinion be superfluous, given that it is already foreseen in the process of appointing the national prosecutor. On the other hand, I believe that it should have made sense to ask why there were ten possible candidates, four of whom were Italians, who were chosen three who were German, French and Romanian. That sounds like a joke from the 1980s, but there is really nothing to laugh about because we are talking about the European Public Prosecutor. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is certain that if we watch for ourselves in Europe there is Mogherini we are quiet and we always sleep peacefully. Perhaps it would have been better to have written the directive in a different way than the regulation we are approving today. I would also like to remind the minorities that the infringement procedures opened against Italy (it is the history that says it, it is not us) have always been between 69 and about 80; therefore 71 are more or less part of the average history of our country. Of course, if there were less, we would all be happier; perhaps if the directives were written differently or if they were developed differently with someone who follows them more, it would certainly be another job. I would like to point out that of these 71 open infringement procedures, 17 are precisely on the subject of the environment and many of them are on the subject of sludge. Therefore, to approve in the Commission amendments that would compromise the whole system of regional plans, twisting it to the point of compromising the enormous effort that the regions are making, I find it foolish and bizarre. Similarly, I find it bizarre that those who morale us on these issues may not even remember to vote on their amendment in the Commission (perhaps they were distracted, I don't know). With regard to Article 15, if we want to tell the facts for what we are doing with a simple reflection that I would also like to share with the Democratic Party, because the responsibility in politics is not only a good word: first abolish the Provinces, then propose to the municipalities to put vetoes in relation to the regional plans on the plants, risking, with this second move of high political and administrative quality, to block the whole system, making impossible a programming by the Regions on an important topic such as that of waste. In a normal world I should be surprised at this, but when I see you here, resignation always prevails. After all, you tried to abolish the Senate too, but I always see you sitting comfortably in front of me, so I think that further comments can't be made. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] However, it cannot be enough because we have tried to amend Article 23 by including, as I see it as a façade, the fight against child labour, which we have discussed for a long time in the Commission. Firstly, I found it curious, but this is what the law provides, not us; secondly, I wondered why and when I thought of it, I wondered why the measure was not extended to disabled people, to disadvantaged categories. On the other hand, this audience has never been remembered by you; they really are people who need it and sometimes it would be useful. Remember that. You know, thinking wrong is a sin, but it's often right, just like someone who's gone from these benches said. We think we have done a good job and, in conclusion, Mr President, with the amendment on the end of waste, we are sure that we have taken a great step forward in the direction of companies, of those in this country who want to work, grow and improve, because that is what our country deserves. So, it took time and I apologize if it was too much for you; for us it was the time needed to work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Lannotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u43	I call Senator Giannuzzi, rapporteur on documents LXXXVI, No 2, and LXXXVII, No 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u44	Mr President, first of all, a very personal note: this is the first time I have been rapporteur in this House, I have been able to listen carefully to the general debate and I have obtained an impression on this procedure, unfortunately, not on the responsibility of the rapporteurs, of a confusion and overlapping of speeches. Today, in fact, two very different measures are before the Assembly: one, as we know, is a bill of delegation to the Government, the other is part of the control and direction activity and represents a look at the Senate over a long time, at the government's activity in relation to Italy's participation in the European Union. I would just like to leave a very personal note to the record: perhaps it would be worth considering amending the joint procedure of the two measures. In fact, not only does the debate overlap, but I think it is really complicated, for those who look at us from outside, to understand the differences and what we are doing. I greatly appreciated the intervention of Senator Fiammetta Modena, who spoke of the incipit of the programmatic report of our outgoing Minister Savona, who - I agree - would have been very interesting to analyse separately. I will continue with a very brief reply, in which - for the most part - I have been concerned about tidying up this year's process of consuntive and programmatic relations. I remember that the previous 2017 and 2018 routine reports (i.e. the similar acts of those under consideration today, but referring to the past year) were transmitted by the Government in March and January 2018, respectively, when the current Government had not yet installed itself. Therefore, to those acts which, by the explicit admission of the previous Government, were in some way limited sovereignty, it was possible to be followed, both by the 14th Commission that of the other permanent committees in the consultative forum, a basically formal but poorly political process, in its decline of direction of the government, having this majority evidently to adhere to lines already drawn by others. The first exquisitely political act in this regard can therefore be seen for us in the resolution of 5 December last last, which closed that process by declining for the first time the long-term commitments which this majority considered to be a priority for it. Therefore, in order to draw a line of account and summary to date, we consider it useful to briefly recall, in a non-exhaustive way, some commitments indicated there, including, in the matter of relations between Government and Parliament, our request to ensure a more analytical attention and transparency on the acts of direction of the Chambers and on the follow-up given by the Government; request that we are pleased to record today that this Government has wanted to transpose from the formal and substantive aspects. As set out in the introductory report annexed to the acts, Appendix IV to the consuntiva report, devoted to the follow-up to the acts of address of Chamber and Senate, has been amended in this last edition to make room for analytical tables on the acts of parliamentary direction approved by the two branches of Parliament, followed by a report which gives a detailed account of the government's work. With regard to the democratic deficit of the European Union and our request to contribute to the process of democratization of the European Union, it is with particular appreciation that we take into account the transposition of the importance given by us to this request and the effort to seek space for it in the interlocutions of the Government in the European fora; efforts of which we receive updating at the most of the hearings of the members of the Government. As an indication of this dynamic, we recall the last hearing of Minister Moavero Milanesi on 9 July before the Joint Commissions 14a and XIV of the Senate and Chamber, in which the Minister, as proof of an open debate on this subject, took account of colloquial hypotheses, in order to confer forms of legislative initiative on the European Parliament, which could be pursued more quickly than the process of amending the Treaties, through interinstitutional agreements within the various bodies of the Union. (The sitting was suspended at 5.25 p.m. and resumed at 5.25 p.m.) Of course, not being in the willingness of individuals - let alone those who speak - to choose solutions, those hypotheses are valid for the spirit with which they were made, as an example of intellectual honesty of an effort and testimony to the will of the Executive to respond to the pressing request of this majority. In the area of migration policies, we are calling for all necessary action to be taken in Europe to reactivate the negotiations for a reform of the Common European Asylum System, by overcoming the current Dublin Regulation and the principle of first entry. Today we have the confidence that this issue is certainly one of the priorities of the new European agenda. This is undoubtedly thanks to the excellent negotiating work carried out by our Government. As you know, a package of reforms in this area is currently under discussion in the European institutions, and Italy is playing its part in this with determination. It is also clear from Parliament's opinion that the 14th The Senate Commission, in its resolution of 12 December 2018, on the proposal for the establishment of the Asylum Agency, in place of the current European Asylum Support Office (EASO), for the part where this proposal did not appear to meet the same principles as the European Treaty on which it was established and presented, representing, in our view, a possible interference in the territorial sovereignty of the individual Member States concerned. This resolution must be taken into account today in the co-decision work between Parliament and the Council. On the issue of strengthening our presence in the European institutions, we would like to recall, in addition to President Conte's interlocutions and statements, the most recent statements by Minister Moavero Milanesi, who, at the precise request of the hearing already mentioned, had to say that it is not a novelty that we aspire to an important portfolio within the Commission. Having had good proof that this Government can put our right weight on the negotiating tables, we trust that every effort will be made in this regard, and more generally, to assert our legitimate aspirations in every assembly. On the subject of Brexit, it was requested by the Government - let us remember - to guarantee the interests of Italians and our fellow citizens, particularly residents of the United Kingdom. In this regard, in addition to the work carried out by our diplomacy, by the Ministers of Director and by the Count himself, there is an obligation to recall Decree No 22 of 25 March last last, promptly converted into law in April, which specifically contains urgent measures to ensure security, financial stability, and integrity of the markets, as well as the protection of the health and freedom of residence of Italian citizens and those of the United Kingdom, in the event of the withdrawal of the latter from the European Union. In the area of social, agricultural, environmental and climate change policies, all of which the Senate has also contributed to the ongoing and downward examination of European legislation, we note with pleasure and pride that we have seen the clear reception of those requests in this year's programme document and not least - and not by chance in our view - the clear reflection in the new vocabulary of the new EU agenda, to the very words of the new President of the European Commission. For all that has been said so far, which, of course, is not exhaustive but effective evidence of a new atmosphere and which convinces us in the relations between this Parliament and the current Executive, we can only say that we are satisfied. We also welcome the European Union's relations with the European Union, because of course we do not believe that the Government has achieved all the objectives set by this Parliament on the date, since they are mostly, as is the case with the complex objectives of European policy, long-term or very long-term objectives, but we can certainly express satisfaction at the general change of pace that this Government has been able to give and that clearly underlies our interlocutions with the European institutions. At the tables of the European institutions we no longer sit with a slender and vaguely guilty attitude, with our eyes fixed solely on debt ratios, but proudly reminding ourselves - first and then our interlocutors - of our real economic power, our history and our laboriousness, our legitimate place in the world and our renewed hunger for the future. This is in the absolute knowledge that in a balanced pride of the people lies not already a sterile opposition to the European project - as is all too often sought to be believed - but the most correct premise for the most balanced interlocations, and therefore for the better fairness of the negotiating results, which in turn guarantee the maintenance of the best and most lasting political balances. We believe that a fair critical sense can be infinitely more useful than a prone and uncritical assent for an ambitious project such as the broad and long-term project of the European Union, which therefore certainly needs the best intelligence of all its Member States. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u45	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I note that the following motions for resolutions, the texts of which are distributed: No 1, signed by Senator Pittella and other Senators, No 2, signed by Senators Lorefice, Pucciarelli and Giannuzzi, No 3, signed by Senators Ciriani and other Senators. I call on the representative of the Government, and I would also ask him to indicate which of the motions for resolutions that have been tabled, the Government intends to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u46	Mr President, the Government accepts motion for a resolution No 2, signed by Senators Lorefice, Pucciarelli and Giannuzzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u47	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 144- bis (7) of the Rules of Procedure, in the face of several motions for resolutions, the one accepted by the Government, to which each Senator may propose amendments, is voted first. Since the Government has stated that it accepts motion for a resolution No 2, the 30-minute deadline for tabling any amendments to it will now begin. The final vote on the draft law of the European delegation, the vote on any amendments tabled to motion for a resolution No 2 and the final vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at the end of the joint explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u48	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u49	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u50	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 3 on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u51	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u52	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u53	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.6 tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.400, presented by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 4, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u54	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments and agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u55	Mr President, the Government is in line with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u56	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4,400 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G4200 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u59	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, the opposite view of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government on this agenda leaves us somewhat perplexed. In fact, in view of the fact that the European Public Prosecutor was due to enter into operation no later than 2021, the Government was simply asking for a commitment to take action, in the context of the ongoing negotiations and in all the relevant European fora, to strengthen its scope for action in favour of extending its mandate also to terrorist offences. Let us say no to such an agenda, especially on the part of the rapporteur, who represents that part of the Government attentive to this type of situation (which are not infringements but real attacks on the well-being and health of a country), we are sorry. I know you can't go back, but I still try.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u60	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of G4200, presented by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4,400, presented by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 6, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u61	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u62	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u63	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,400, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.401 tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.402, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.403, tabled by Senators Testor and Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.404, tabled by Senators Testor and Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.405, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 7, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u64	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u65	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u66	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,200, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,201 tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 9, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u67	Mr President, I am against the amendments tabled in Article 9.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u68	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u69	Let us move on to Amendment 9,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,200, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9,201, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,201, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 11, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u70	Mr President, I am against Amendment 11,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u71	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u72	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11,200, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 12, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u73	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 12,200. This Article refers to official controls carried out to ensure the application of food and feed legislation, as well as to animal health and animal welfare and plant health which in many cases directly involve local authorities. Therefore, in our opinion, the amendment is correct because it establishes the indispensability of providing for an agreement in the context of the adaptation of national legislation at the unified conference rather than at the State-Regions Conference, with the involvement of municipal administrations as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u74	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u75	Mr President, I am against the amendments and I am in favour of the G12,400 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u76	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u77	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,200, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,400, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 12,401, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12,401 tabled by Senator Ginetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.404, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.402, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B) I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.403, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,201, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Fantetti, do you insist on voting on agenda G12,400?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u78	No, Mr. President. Allow me to express my appreciation for the inclusion of this agenda, which is, if not prodromic, a good hope for the inclusion in the next budget law - which I have tried to do in the previous one too - of a matter of particular importance with regard to the protection and promotion of Italian catering in the world. This first European step is crucial. The vast majority of Italian public catering establishments abroad are located in Europe; however, if in future legislation we could extend the concept also internationally, this would be very important to combat the so-called Italian sinking and to promote Italian food and wine traditions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u79	Having been accepted by the Government, the G12,400 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 13, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u80	Mr President, the opinion on the amendments is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u81	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u82	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13,200, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13,201, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 14, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u83	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u84	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u85	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14,200, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators, identical to amendment 14,402 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.201, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators, identical to amendment 14.401 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.202, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.203, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators, identical to amendment 14,403 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.204, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 14.205, tabled by Senator Pittella and other senators, until the words "most efficient" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 14.06 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.07.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u88	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to make a general statement on the various amendments signed by my Group, because the legislative proposal concerns, both for waste batteries and accumulators and for waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE), the strengthening of the monitoring of collection levels and the identification of the audience of those responsible for the objectives identified. As regards the monitoring of collection levels, the proposal aims to strengthen control in the early stages of collection by introducing reporting requirements and increasing supervisory activity for all actors in the supply chain. I remember that there is a serious problem of "cannibalisation" regarding waste from electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE). In view of the fact that the end of waste decrees are not yet enacted, it is requested to provide for prior control at least in the delegation law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u89	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.207, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.208, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 14.209, tabled by Senator Pittella and other senators, until the words "most efficient" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 14.210 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.211, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.212, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.213, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.214, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.215, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.216, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 14.217, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.217, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14,400, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.218, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.219, tabled by Senator Berutti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 14.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u92	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, the article deals with three rather important issues relating to waste: end-of-life vehicles, batteries, accumulators and, above all, waste from electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE). Mr President, on this article - and I shall confine myself to the work of this House, apart from those of the Commissions - the opposition forces have tabled 25 amendments, all of which have been rejected (among other things 13 were from our Group). I have had the opportunity to verify the reports of the 14th The Commission and one rather marginal amendment of the opposition were accepted. We are very sorry about this because the issue we are talking about is important. I am referring, for example, to WEEE. The quantity and quality of these products is absolutely consistent with the national and European waste landscape and the legislation was to be taken more vigorously into account. Of course, we can only agree with the European directive and some of the points made in the Government's proposal for transposition, but it is completely inadequate. I refer, for example, at least to the forms of promotion and incentive of collection, which are completely non-existent in the legislation of our country, with all the annexes and the negative connected that result. We have proposed to reformulate the collection and communication of waste electrical and electronic equipment, but it has been said no. We have proposed at least to make the waste reporting system more efficient, involving, as the senator said earlier, not only producers, but the whole chain, for example sellers, but we have said no. In the Commission, when examining measures similar to the one under discussion, we met with companies and consortia in the previous months and everyone stressed the need to speed up in this direction. This is therefore a missed opportunity, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: it was in fact an opportunity to give a virtuous acceleration to the collection of WEEE, but also to batteries and end-of-life vehicles, but it was not taken. It is therefore the umpteenth opportunity that the majority loses in order to reach a cycle of quality waste in our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u95	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, we will abstain on the articles on waste, because we believe that, on the part of the Government, there should have been a broader vision and greater courage in finally facing a cycle that Italy has been facing, with serious delay, for a long time. With regard specifically to Article 14, in addition to the question of WEEE - much debated in the Commission following the presentation of several amendments, which I have also had the opportunity to sign and sign, some of which have been modified and transformed into very mild simple agendas - there was also the ancient question of self-demolition, which afflicts not only the city of Rome, but also all the cities of the South. It is an activity with a serious problem of security, of controls and, as we said, of localization. The opportunity to deal with this matter has therefore been missed. Clearly, we will look forward to implementing decrees, so that we can have a more substantial impact and expect the Government to make a more courageous proposal. Therefore, we shall abstain on this article and subsequent amendments 15 and 16.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u96	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 15, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u97	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. I call on the Government to accept the agendas for G15,200 and G15,400 and I am against the agenda for G15,401.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u98	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on the amendments we are debating. The Government accepts the agendas of the G15,200 and G15,400 and is willing to accept the agenda of the G15,401 provided that, in the disposition part, after the words "Environmental Research" are added the following: "with the allocation of adequate resources, within those already allocated for the realization of the interventions".
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u99	Does the rapporteur support the reworded agenda? Mr Bossi Simone, rapporteur on draft law No 944. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does Senator Gallone accept the proposed reformulation? GALLONE (FI-BP). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15,200, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.201, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.202, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15,203, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G15,200, G15,400 and G15,401 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 15.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u102	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, this directive regulates a very important aspect with regard to sludge and its spreading. On this topic we have great expectations for the promises made also by the Minister of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea regarding the normalization of an important data concerning our country, that has been found several times to find serious illegality in this field. Yet, even here we miss an opportunity, which other countries have instead taken as essential, regarding the increase of the tariff for the transport to landfill. This, as has also been said in the European Union's political Commission, is a key factor in reducing landfills, which in Italy are used for the disposal of 90% of waste. The amendment to increase the landfill rate has not been adopted, while an agenda has been adopted, and we therefore expect the measure to become an effective measure for Italy as well. Denmark, which has approved a legislative measure to this effect since 1997, has zero landfills, while we have 90% landfills in regions such as Sicily. It is therefore an important decision that this Government must take as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u105	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, as they say, we give Caesar what belongs to Caesar and, therefore, I thank him for accepting the agendas of the day G15,400 and G15,401 (text 2). We know that the agenda does not have the value of an amendment, but it is better so than nothing, hoping that these agendas will then be read carefully and transposed more forcefully. The G15,400 agenda concerns the possibility of re-use of excavation rocks as a by-product and, therefore, with consequences of savings on both the temporal and economic fronts. This is very important for companies dealing with construction and renovation, so that the resulting materials do not go to landfill. The other agenda, the G15.401 (text 2), to which I really care a lot, is born with the aim of strengthening the supervision and the consequent action of reclamation of the illegal landfill sites present on the territory of the State, widening the action of the extraordinary commissioner and its operating unit, on the contrary - even more - considering the possibility of using a support structure composed of human and instrumental resources, with equal funding. In fact, we generally act on the emergency, for example, in this case, with an extraordinary commissioner who deals with the reclamation of unfair landfills already hit by European sanctions. We would like there to be effective preventive action to clean up illegal landfills before they are hit by a European sanction. I know this unit already works very well. In our opinion, giving them the opportunity to strengthen will save Italy many, but many money in terms of sanctions and public health.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u106	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 16, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u107	Amendment No 16.205 is very important, especially in the current situation, since in 13a The Commission has been discussing a text on land use since October and is trying to move the construction sector from new buildings to urban regeneration, precisely so as not to consume soil. The urban regeneration of course requires destruction and reconstruction, especially of that poor building heritage of the seventies and eighties of which our suburbs are full. On this the Government, even in previous measures, has put in place policies of tax levers, incentives and regulatory and authorization facilities that we hope will be the right lever to avoid the consumption of new soil. What, though, will happen if we take down all this old building without providing for the construction and demolition waste cycle? These wastes will end up in landfills and landfills are by definition land use, so even with urban regeneration, we will inevitably find ourselves consuming new soil, filling landfills. This amendment therefore, in a second version, calls for the production cycle to be taken into consideration, i.e. the construction and demolition material to enter the production cycle and the yard to be identified as a place to separate the materials, to have a recovery for the reconstruction and also for the sale of this material, avoiding creating a waste. I therefore call for a favourable opinion and for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u108	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u109	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments and agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u110	Mr President, the opinion is in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u111	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,200, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,201, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.202, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,203, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 16,204, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,204, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.205, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 16.206, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.206, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.207, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,208, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.209, tabled by Senator Dürnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 16,210, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,210, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,211, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment No 16,212, tabled by Senator Steger and other senators, up to the words "quantitative" and "quantitative." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 16.213 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.214, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,215 tabled by Senator Steger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,216, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 16,217, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,217, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 16,218, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,218, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 16.219, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u114	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I have not withdrawn this amendment, which can be said to be my amendment of the heart, because it is always a trace of what should be the optimal situation in terms of the transposition of the European Directive, which provides for the issuing of end of waste decrees passing from regions and provinces to the state and which are still struggling to be enacted. I have maintained it despite the fact that a piece has finally been placed within the measure under our scrutiny, signed by all the parliamentary forces. This is what Mr Briziarelli mentioned in his speech in general discussion and that should allow at least the already authorized plants not to be blocked by the paradoxical norm inserted in the so-called unblocking yards, which provided that the plants had to prove to operate according to the criteria of a decree dating back to 1998, without taking into account, therefore, the technological innovations that have occurred, and which fortunately will make the Regions and the Lombardy Region sigh of relief in particular. This does not prevent me from always asking that we try again and make sure that, in the interests of transposition of the directive, installations, even unauthorized plants, which are waiting for the decrees to be able to dispose of important waste, can function. When I am talking about important waste, I am talking about tyres, I am talking about road garbage, I am talking about Biomethane: all waste that today, without permits, goes to landfill or incinerators, the much-vaunted landfills and incinerators. Given that Europe and the world are asking that by 2030 70% or 90% of waste should no longer go to landfills or incinerators but be recycled to finally end the transition and reach a complete circular economy, until this amendment is rejected, this important step will not be taken. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u115	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.219, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16,400.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u118	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, for months we have been participating - let us say so - in an indecent ballet on the end of waste in this Parliament and also at government level. I remember perfectly when the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea Costa, now months ago, said that it was an issue to be addressed and finally resolved in the next useful measure. Well, three useful measures have already passed, we are in the fourth and nothing has been done. It had been communicated in the last of the series, in the third from the origin, the so-called decree unblocks yards, the full resolution of the question; well, all the operators of the field have explained to us that if we have not done them harm with this intervention, little we miss; certainly it has been completely influential. In summary, the Council of State blocked the renewal and new authorisations for all companies operating in such a sensitive and important sector for the economy and health of our country; it said that it is necessary to adapt the national legislation: Let's do it, let's do it. From there we stand at the stake. Attention, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because we are talking about issues that have to do not only with the circular economy, with the jobs that can be created, with a truly applied green economy and not just chatted up; we are talking about issues that affect the protection of the environment, public health and that, if they are not addressed, bring into play organised crime. In fact, in the chronicles we read daily of burnings, fires, sheds full of municipal waste, but often of hazardous industrial waste. Mr President, if we do not act radically on this issue, we will not be able to make our country take a little step forward, rather we will go back. The circular economy is thus blocked; jobs, quality of life, the environment and the defence of public health are lost. On the substance of the matter, it is said that if the European directive is left to the full viability of the regions it creates problems from the point of view of environmental sustainability. However, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that those who support it have read the text, because the European directive details on a case-by-case basis the types of waste that can be considered as being produced. On the contrary, let us say more: it is precisely the full transposition of Article 6 of the directive that constitutes a uniform national condition throughout our territory and therefore unite the issue we are talking about. It is the absence of the application of the European directive that creates confusion and is creating paralysis. However, there is more, Mr President: while we are standing still, we have a negative impact on the environment not only on issues I have just mentioned, but because when we do not recognise certain waste, the product category is forced to produce new waste, with all the negative effects, for example from the point of view of the energy consumed. The necessary implementing decrees are not enough, but they are a little off the hook because the government has issued two on purely sectoral issues within the necessary dozens. We need completely renewed legislation, because waste management is not stopped in 1998, the latest national legislation, but it has evolved, as the market, consumption and, above all, technology has evolved, while we are still in 1998 and from there we absolutely cannot move. Mr President, I think it is absolutely necessary for the Senate Assembly to have the courage and the ability to intervene drastically. As I said before, you tried the budgetary manoeuvre: you did not succeed. You tried with the simplification decree: you did not succeed. You tried with the decree unlocking yards: you did not succeed. We can't do this today. What should we wait to respond to these companies? I come from Veneto, but this situation happens everywhere. There are companies in our national territories that, apart from all the considerations I have just mentioned, do not know where to put this waste. On the one hand, we do not allow them to transform them into products that would be useful for the whole nation and, on the other hand, the absence of plants and the absence of legislation is forcing them to keep them in the warehouses, with the possibility for organized crime, even of a mafia nature, which is expanding in the sector, to sneak in. Have the courage to stop the jokes between her and the 5 Stars on this sector. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Where is it written that the Regions do not have the possibility to activate a real defence of the territory within a regulation - precisely Article 6 of the European Directive - which is clear and strict and defines case by case? Have the ability and courage to overcome the indecent ballet of the war between the Ministry of the Environment and the Regions and to make our country take a step forward. This is the last chance and let's not waste it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u119	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,400, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 16,220, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,220, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,221, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.222, tabled by Senator Pittella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,223 tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,224, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 16,225, tabled by Senator Steger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,226, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16,227 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u122	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to ask, if possible, for a change in the agenda of Amendment No 16,227 (text 2), which has been discussed several times in the Commission. At the Ministry of the Environment a table is open on this topic so it is a topic debated. I would like to know whether it is possible at least to turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u123	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on Senator Nugnes' request.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u124	Mr President, I am against the amendment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u125	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u126	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,227 (text 2), tabled by Senator Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,228, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G16,200, presented by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of the G16,400, tabled by Senator Ginetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G16.401 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u129	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, after the unexpected rejection of the amendment I had just tabled, I rise on this agenda. Last week I attended, together with some senators, an assembly in Rome where representatives were present from Confindustria to environmental associations, passing through many consortia and dozens of operators in the sector of the most diverse political and cultural belongings. Everyone in this assembly shouted the urgency of such an intervention. I find it astonishing that in the Senate there is a need for this proportion, shouted by all the operators in the sector - I repeat, from companies to environmental associations - and they reject the amendments without anyone getting up to explain the reason or without making any alternative proposals. It's really amazing. We are talking about a Senate totally distant from the reality of companies, territory, public health, production and families. If you of the League and the Movimento 5 Stars rejected that amendment, at least we can vote on an agenda that calls for urgent, in the first appropriate measure, to amend the rule that is twenty-one years old, yes or no? Since it has been said by your Government, for a year now, at every step of the way, can we vote on a commitment from the Government to move a minimum on such an important and strategic operation for our country? We do not even go into the matter, but we are simply asking for a political commitment in this direction. On this agenda, Mr President, we expect a vote in favour, otherwise you will explain to all these worlds that you sincerely do not care. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u130	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda 16.401, presented by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 17, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u131	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Rule 17.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u132	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u133	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17,200, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17,201, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 17.202, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 19, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u134	Mr President, I am against Amendment No 19,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u135	Mr President, I am against Amendment No 19,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u136	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19,200, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 21, on which an agenda has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u137	Mr President, I am in favour of your acceptance.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u138	Mr President, the Government accepts the G21,400 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u139	Having been accepted by the Government, the G21.400 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 22, on which an amendment and an agenda have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u140	Mr President, I welcome both the amendment and the inclusion of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u141	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion and accepts the G22,400 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u144	GIANNUZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to the agenda for G22,400.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u147	LICHERI (M5S). I would also ask you to sign the G22,400 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u148	We will then turn to the secretariat to take note of the signatures added. I would like to point out that the rapporteur's amendment 22,500, tabled by a simultaneous vote, complies with a condition laid down by the Budget Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G22.400 agenda will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 22 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 23, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u149	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u150	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u151	Let us move on to Amendment 23,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23,200, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 23. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 24, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u152	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u153	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u154	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24,200, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 24. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 25. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 26, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u155	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u156	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u157	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26,200, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 26. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u160	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, this measure is sometimes dealt with in a somewhat tired and bureaucratic way by Parliament, yet it is the photograph of how strong the correlation between the Member States of the European Union is. In this bill two articles speak of justice and five finance, six articles address environmental issues, one intervenes in energy and three maritime transport. So many issues, some of which are of great delicacy, such as those in judicial matters. But the law of delegation, as some have mentioned, belongs to the descending phase of Community law, which reminds us of the importance of the ascending phase, namely that of confrontation with European partners and institutions. It is here that Italy must find greater centrality and protagonism, because from here the great decisions pass. It is an issue that concerns everyone: the Government, Parliament and, of course, MEPs who, like colleagues from other countries, must be more effective in enforcing the Italian authorities. Colleagues and colleagues, we strongly believe in European values, but we also know that many things in Europe do not work and need to be changed. The results of the last elections must not be deceived: in public opinion, anti-European sentiment has not disappeared, but it will become unstoppable if Europe does not change over the next few years. Italy, with Germany and France, is a founding country, and for this reason it must put in place a construction policy, because this is how they regain centrality and attention to national issues. Let us think of the last year: the policy of confrontation has not brought any benefit from the point of view of flexibility on the public accounts; it has not made any progress on the rewriting of the Treaty of Dublin; it has not strengthened the position of Italy when the apical offices of the European Commission and the Central Bank have been renewed. So, I say to you: sit at the tables of confrontation with the authority of a country that has created Europe, because only in this way can you get the necessary margins to defuse the safeguard clauses and a budget law that relieves the tax burden. Above all, do so because, only through Europe, Italy will be able to say its own on the great issues of the future: from those that concern climate change to the new technological revolution, which is at the door. And do so also because nationalism has always come from war while from Europe peace has always come, the longest that our continent has ever known. Therefore, work to ensure that this heritage does not disappear, but is re-launched and becomes a useful tool for the next generations. The measure under examination takes a good picture of the reasons why the Europeanist belief has faded in public opinion. So, alongside more general objectives, there are a few more quotas, but equally important. It is necessary to simplify and rationalise the formation of directives, in order to intervene more harmoniously on the legislative fabric of the Member States. In other words, what has happened all too often in recent years, i.e. a relationship between the EU and the Member States as a passive transposition, must be countered. We must have tools that anticipate the assessment of the impact of the rules, that is, the way in which they fall in the country's life, on the citizens, on the productive system. There is therefore a need for greater activism and involvement of the social partners, in the ascending phase but also in the descending phase, because this is the only way to counter the vision of a Europe as the bearer of new bureaucratic demands, and therefore far from the needs and expectations of its citizens. This is also a theme that recalls the reform of Europe that we all believe is necessary and on which - I repeat - Italy must play a leading role, a role worthy of a founding country. It is with this hope that I will announce the Group's vote in favour of the delegation law and the customary report. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u163	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the only representative of More Europe in the Senate, you know very well my political positions on this issue and I will not repeat them. I will use this time to announce the abstaining vote of my colleagues in the Mixed Group to make three comments - which I hope undersecretary Santangelo will report to the new Minister - on issues which we have little established and detailed here. The first point is that in order to negotiate better in Europe, except that it would be useful to go there, it is very important to also be credible. In the meantime, I would like to congratulate the Offices of the Senate, which have finally made available today, in an understandable way, the list of infringements affecting our country, which from 71, as announced by our rapporteur, in a few days have come to be 79. In particular, it is good that colleagues, as well as the public, know that at the opening of an infringement and at the end of the opening process, convictions are normally rather expensive, if we are thinking of waste. For example, I have 17 environmental infringement procedures. Their costs are as follows: 204 million paid only for illegal landfills; 151 million for waste management in Campania; 25 million for non-treatment of urban waste water. I guess, by checking the update of the data on the Senate website, we could get more information. (18.45) (Follows BONINO). We then have the issue of the 5 and a half million ecoballs stacked in surreal garbage cities, which have been the subject of an infringement of 20 million since 2015, plus 120,000 euros a day, until the problem is resolved. The Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea Costa, on a mission to Brussels last December, had announced the request for a reduction of the fine, promising concrete steps. Evidently no one believed him because it is clear that by 16 December 2019 the problem of the 5 million ecoballs will certainly not be solved. However, the postponement of more than six months does not reassure us because in the meantime we will continue to pay 120,000 euros per day for a total of about 22 million. It would therefore require a more punctual and accurate attention to the management of infringements. I mentioned only those concerning the waste I had the data on, but I believe that if we look at the Senate website we can have an overall view of how much European infringements cost us. I have just set the example of the environmental chapter; we could make a request about the other chapters, which we will certainly make. The second issue that I have also heard raised with regard to the new budget negotiations concerns cohesion funds. It is very difficult to ask for cohesion funds to be maintained - not to mention the increase in cohesion funds - when the Court of Auditors actually tells us that we have not used cohesion funds for hundreds of millions of euros, that we should return by December or for projects that are not implemented or for projects that cannot be financed because they are not presented in correct terms. I just wanted these two elements to be very clear, which certainly do not help. All of this brings me to the last consideration that has already been made by my colleague before. Apart from the political visions that we can have, and each one of us has his own, what remains certain is that since then our Government has not equipped itself to have a Ministry for European Affairs worthy of this name, in the sense of being adapted to that name. We had tried to set up an interministerial committee that worked very well, in order to coordinate the position of the various ministers when they go to Brussels, and to give precise instructions to our very good officials in Brussels, who are very often deprived of them, not because of the will of the Minister-in-Office, but because of the lack of an appropriate instrument. In this regard, I would like to ask the Minister or also you, Undersecretary Santangelo, or whoever you want, to take a trip to the Ministry of European Affairs in Paris: you will realize that, beyond the policy of the Prime Minister or the President, the machine and structure of the Ministry of European Affairs is the one that guarantees from day one, indeed very often from day zero, that the French interests - albeit mediated, because it is clear that sometimes you win and sometimes not - are present on the negotiating table of any directive. We never gave ourselves this structure and so what do we do? We are actually criticizing the directives, which, as I said, we do not apply, only when they arrive at them. On the other hand, I think that, regardless of who will be in the government, but if we start it is better, we must give ourselves the instruments - so far we have not done so - in order to have a competent technical and administrative presence able also to negotiate among the various ministers, because we do not always win. The Government must set priorities for which, according to the priority "X" it is also willing to make compromises on the "Y" directive, it is normal. In this regard, I recall the positive experience I had with the Prodi Government - and I say this out of knowledge, because I was Minister for European Policies - which has often allowed me to have a negotiated position, so to have clear what I had to negotiate and what I had to achieve. I hope that these three suggestions will be taken into account in a positive way, because the interest I have and feel politically is not to make controversy on European issues, but, if possible, to put our country in condition, for the governments that will come, not only to beat fists or threaten evictions, but to be respectable, respected and competent on the issues that will have to be addressed. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u166	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, today we are discussing the European delegation law 2018. Let us look at the planning and summary reports in Parliament's total disinterest: the completely empty benches are symptomatic of them. We have done our homework today; we have taken the list of everything that is not right in our system and we have made a measure in which we ask the government to adapt it quickly to European legislation in order to prevent the European Union from sticking to us. We have been very polite; we have done our homework; we have also done it for budgetary adjustment: the Commission has told us to stay within 2% as a deficit-GDP ratio and the Government has been quick to review its accounts to come back to this percentage. This happened to the face of those who broke bottles of champagne saying that the deficit was done as best they thought it would be, or of those who said that the numbers of the European Commission do not serve and are respected only if they do not harm the Italian interests. Today, however, the government did its homework and did exactly what the European Commission asked it to do. It is a little bizarre for a government that had to shake the European Chancellors and the European Commission. None of this happened. This has happened as if everything were going well in Europe, but it is not; it is not all right for two reasons. First of all, there is no vision of general interest in Europe. Therefore, those who speak of Europeanism as if there were a room in which there is someone who does the good of Europe are mistaken because in Europe everyone pursues the interests of his own national state. 18.54 (Fazzulari follow). This applies to everyone except Italy, which does not sit at the tables in which these decisions are taken, which is not heard, which presents a programme report 2019 to the European Commission that I would dare to define as polite, very shy and respectful. Let's just say we haven't seen the rupee in this measure. Brothers of Italy in his resolution, which will now become an amendment to the majority resolution, said what we should do to make us feel. First of all, we must regard birth as a priority for the European Union and, therefore, as the first item of expenditure in the European Union. That is not the case; the European Union does not have birth among its thousand priorities and we have not included it as our Italian priorities. Then there are civilization duties on those states that do not comply with our wage, environmental and social standards in order to avoid social dumping in Europe. The euro is also a problem because it enriches the Germans and impoverishes the Italians. I'm not saying that, but the Germans, who did a thorough and detailed study. Usually they are good at doing these things and have certified that in twenty years, thanks to the euro, the Germans have earned 23,000 euros and the Italians have lost 75,000. In view of this, we would have expected a very lively debate. Brothers of Italy speak clearly of this by saying that, since the euro benefits someone and disadvantages others, within the mechanisms of the European Union there must be some compensation between those who earn and those who lose. A clearing mechanism, for example, could be investment through the EIB, the ECB or the European budget for infrastructure works in the Member States of the European Union which with the euro forgive us. One might also ask for the whole European Union to come out of the madness of the global compact for immigration, the UN programme that would want unlimited immigration in Europe, on which the Brothers of Italy fought and on which we would like the whole European Union to take a stand. In addition, our classical and Christian roots could be included in the Treaties of the European Union as the foundation of European identity. There is none of this, but there are only small observations, which the previous government could have made. I therefore understand the embarrassment of the League, when it says that at least it is a small step ahead of the past. Perhaps so, but surely we are in a very abnormal situation, in which the main majority party, the 5 Star Movement, voted in favour of the appointment of the President of the European Commission, together with the PD, the People's Party and the Europeanist forces, while the League voted against, together with the Eurosceptic forces, including the Brothers of Italy. Of course, it is not normal for a government to come to a fundamental appointment, such as the appointment of the President of the European Commission, not having a position. Is the Italian Government in favour of this Commission or is it against, since a party voted in favour and a party voted against? So we don't go very far. However, we have made great progress in relation to the governments of the left, and this, with intellectual honesty, must be acknowledged, not least because it was not difficult to do better in Europe than a government that was at the service of foreign powers. It may seem a strong statement, but I would have expected there to be a great scandal in this House today, which was not there. Then let us tell of Brothers of Italy this shame, which appeared yesterday in the newspapers, namely that our undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council - I say "our" because Italian - during the Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri Governments, Sandro Gozi, after having held this position, on the basis of which he was supposed to defend Italian interests in Europe and in the European Commission, before he was nominated on the lists of En Marche, with Macron, to the European Parliament - that I remember being blocked lists, for which he does not need preference, but only the applause of the capobaston - and, as we learned yesterday, he was even appointed in the French Government with the same position that he held in the Italian Government and that is that of responsible for European policies for France. The question should therefore arise spontaneously at all: how come those who went to beat their fists on the tables to defend Italian interests, against French interests, the next day are rewarded by the French Government? In Italy, in the anti-corruption law, this corresponds to a very precise case and it is the prohibition of pantouflage, that is the prohibition of revolving doors, which forbids those who hold public functions to be the day after the money of those who deal with the Italian Government. Instead, we have our representative at the European tables, who we have now discovered to be at the money of the French, and this is disgusting, which should be indignant, not the patriots of Brothers of Italy, but anyone who cares about the nation. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Then, at this point perhaps you can also understand other circumstances and you can understand the shame of a letter from the President of the PD Group to the Senate, who writes to the French ambassador to apologize for his government, with tones that seem like those of Benigni and Troisi's letter to Savonarola in the film "We just have to cry." [[Protests of Senators Ginetti and Mirabelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u167	You still have 20 seconds. I gave 30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u168	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Allow me again to renew our sentiments of deep respect and to represent them to President Macron and to the leadership of the French Government. [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u169	Senator Fazzolari, can you stay within the terms of the provision? FAZZOLARI (FdI). How much longer do I have? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's already out of time, and I've given her another 30 seconds to finish. FAZZOLARI (FdI). I shall conclude, Mr President. Then we understand better a letter of this kind and the Caen Agreement, signed on 21 March 2015 and not yet ratified by Parliament, with which the Government led by the PD gives part of our territorial waters to the French. You can understand the PD's support for the French bombings in Libya in 2011...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u170	[[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u171	Senator, kindly, I invite you to remain within the scope of the provision, or I must take the floor, also because you have finished the time at your disposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u172	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, I shall end by saying that Italy needs more to lift its head and, therefore, we shall vote against this programme report, which cannot do so. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u173	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u175	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party will abstain from voting. I would like to thank Mrs Ginetti, who has followed with competence and passion the important dossier under consideration and offered the arguments that drive us to our abstention vote. This is also an opportunity to review a year of European commitment (I cannot say of European commitment). I am sorry that the new Minister is not here, and I would gladly wish him well. And good wishes, after a disastrous year in the relations between your Government and the European Union. Minister Savona has often delighted us with imaginative constructions, circus declarations and a flood of imaginative and fantastic representations, accompanied by a pratice or winking, totally unable to build an understanding and an alliance and to understand what to get for Italy and Europe. I want to remember some points of this year's defeats. I'm starting from the first. The experience of the Count Government starts, with a presence in Brussels. The first European Council on immigration sees the proposed reform of the Dublin Regulation on the table; the Italian Government agrees to bring down the proposal, which would have solved a fundamental problem with regard to the major issue of migration. These things must not be forgotten. Salvini then spent this year saying that ports should be closed and that irregulars in our country should not be increased, because - of course - the possibility for regular immigrants is reduced. But then, the irregulars couldn't send them back and repatriate them. Sometimes many people wonder whether the problem of immigration or asylum seekers really wants to be solved, or do they want to keep it, to worry, worry and - then - exploit the fear of voters. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Let me turn to the second point: the comedy of the financial maneuver. We started out with muscles from gyms and then the soundproofed rooms of Brussels brought the good President Conte to mythical advice. Third point. Is there any trace in this year of the proposals for changing budgetary rules? It was said: we will turn the European Union and its budgetary rules like a sock. There is a trace of these proposals. Has the government made any serious proposals? Do you have an idea? Do you have any idea of an alliance? My colleague speaks badly of France, the other of Germany, the other of whom I do not know yet. I did not understand these reforms with whom we should implement them. With the Visegrád Group, who will certainly be against any reform hypothesis? Fourth point. At our feet the Mediterranean burns, with the war in Libya, instability in Tunisia and Egypt and the crisis situation in the Sahel: all this seems to disinterest the Italian Government, as if it were not the main interested in what is happening in the Mediterranean and in a serious and not almsgiving policy towards Africa. Fifth point. I return to Minister Savona, who has often spoken of institutional lameness. I myself wrote a book a few years ago, titled "The dumb duck," to describe the asymmetry between a strong monetary leg of the European Union and a weak or absent economic and fiscal one. Here too, how has it been attempted to resolve this year the lameness to which Savona refers? With what proposals? Is there any trace of an Italian Government proposal on eurobonds, fiscal capacity, a euro area budget or a European monetary fund? None of this. Sixth point. We are not talking about the Italian competition for European foreign policy, which should be strong, clearly oriented towards strengthening the Atlantic alliance, without complexes of inferiority, schizophrenia, ambiguity or risky, ambiguous and inconsistent ties with the history of Italy and Europe. Finally, we are talking about Ursula von der Leyen, the new President of the European Commission. Even there, the Italian Government has managed not to weigh or count. League and Movimento 5 Stars have managed to spread, thus nullifying the Italian negotiating power, dividing on the vote to the President of the European Commission. The election of the President of the European Commission is the nodal point, from which the other appointments are made, to which I fear - not because of us, but because of this Government - Italy will participate with a plate of lentils. This is certainly not right for a great country, founder of the European Union, a country which is pro tempore governed by an inadequate and incapable government. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u176	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u178	CASELATI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the law of a European delegation, as has already been heard on several occasions in this debate, consists of a set of legislative delegations which Parliament confers on the Government to amend internal legislation by transposing the European directives. This is an important measure, as it transposes European legislation and allows the entry of Community legislation into our legal system. EU legislation deals with topics of three hundred and sixty degrees, affecting areas of different backgrounds and which certainly offers a number of useful ideas for analysing the future of the Union itself. Before entering into the substance of the law and the reflections connected with it, allow me to thank all the colleagues of the 14th Commission, who have carried out a work that is not simple, because, as I said, the delegation law addresses many issues that require commitment and dedication. I would also like to express my thanks for the crucial contribution made by the valuable work of colleagues from all the other committees. The delegation law provides for the implementation of 26 directives and the adaptation to 9 regulations. Note the wide variety of issues addressed: legal matters are dealt with, work is done on a European energy infrastructure, environmental issues, issues related to the protection of human health and so on, until the law of delegation is transformed into a kind of omnibus. An important article that I would like to mention is Article 20, because it lays down the guiding principles and criteria for the implementation of the Euratom Directive, which lays down basic safety standards for the protection against the dangers arising from exposure to ionizing radiation with regard both to medical exposure, to persons subject to occupational exposure and to the general public. It should be said that the deadline for transposition was 6 February 2018. Therefore, due to the failure to transpose, in my opinion inexplicable, an infringement procedure has been launched against Italy, Mr Ginetti, which will be defused by the approval of this article. This is a particularly important amendment, as it transposes a directive updating and consolidating European radiation protection legislation, which lays down basic safety standards for the protection of workers, individuals and patients against the dangers arising from exposure to ionizing radiation and also includes measures to prepare and respond to emergencies that have been reinforced following the Fukushima nuclear accident. Another extremely important article for the environment is Article 14, which sets out the specific principles and guidelines for the implementation of the European Directive on end-of-life vehicles, waste batteries, accumulators and waste electrical and electronic equipment, so-called WEEE. Among the important changes that have been made thanks to the work in the Commission, the provision of measures to encourage the voluntary withdrawal of small WEEE by distributors who do not sell electronic equipment, the creation of a single waste management system that combines batteries and WEEE and the regulation of the end-of-life of photovoltaic panels placed on the market before 12 April 2014, including the involvement of collective collection systems, have been included among the guiding criteria. Article 22 delegates the Government to adopt within 12 months of the date of entry into force of the delegation law, one or more legislative decrees for the adaptation of national legislation to the European Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2017 on measures to ensure security of gas supply. In particular, reference is made to the implementation of the solidarity mechanisms, including the assignment of determined tasks to the transmission system operators and the gas operators concerned. This is an important measure because it introduces rules to deal with a possible shortage of gas caused by supply disruptions or exceptionally high demand, to ensure continuity of supply in the Member States and to anticipate the risks arising from one of the European Union's structural problems, namely the high dependence on external energy supply. In order to return to a political reflection on the delegation law that embraces the entire European institutional system, we can see how many issues are certainly addressed, resulting in a major change, perhaps too much, of our order. Already during the general debate, before the vote on the European law that took place on 16 April, I had put forward a reflection that I would like to share again: at European level - not only in Italy - the increasing number of openings of infringement procedures are the symptom of an institution that is increasingly synonymous with bureaucracy. The mania for regulation at all levels and on all issues is one of the main causes of aversion and insuffering by Member States and citizens towards the European institutions. The continuous surrender of sovereignty required, each time on new issues, is a phenomenon, indeed a problem, which should find broad political and media debate and concern anyone who has at heart our national interests. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Another political consideration that I would like to bring to your attention is the functioning of the legislative power within the European Union. The analysis of the various issues related to the delegation law shows the enormous power of the European Commission over the role of Parliament. It must therefore be an imperative of Italy to try to change this obvious asymmetry of power. And I am pleased to point out that there is also a commitment in the resolution on the programme report on Italy's participation in the European Union to promote the strengthening of the democratic legitimacy of the European institutions by giving the European Parliament the power of legislative initiative. In conjunction with this, we need to ensure greater transparency for the European Commission, all too often influenced by political reasons that direct the decisions taken. In conclusion, on the basis of what my colleagues in the Group have also said, because of the important work done in the Commission and the importance of the measure, I declare the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u179	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u181	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the House is today called upon to examine and approve the draft law of the European delegation and its reports. It is certainly an opportunity for us to compare the approach and capacity of two governments, the past and the present. We are starting from the action of the Commission in office, which in Europe has succeeded in doing worse, if possible, in a few months in the extraordinary enterprise, than the previous one, which had already been characterized by the inexplicable as useless choice of a High Representative for foreign policy whose activity I believe none of us have had news for five years. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As evidence of this it is enough to try to count the very high number of infringement procedures still pending on our heads and that neither of the two Executives has been able to significantly reduce, but we always trust the Government of change. Today, then, with a government that has as its priority to stick to the Scotch, we have an Italy trampled, ridiculed and isolated in the European context, also in the light of the separate votes for the Presidency of the European Commission and that has not yet managed to produce an authoritative candidacy for a role of Vice-President of the European Commission, which Forza Italia strongly hopes for Italy, because not even having a Vice-President would be a humiliation that our country frankly does not deserve. Moreover, the recent European elections have given us a scenario in which the current majority forces are and will be absolutely irrelevant in the next Parliament. Returning to the theme of our work, the separate documents under consideration photograph what has been done and what Italy would like to do in Europe next year; a complex complex of norms that appear to be generic, which will have a concrete impact, in a consistent and binding way, on our economic and social activities and, therefore, on the lives of our bodies, our companies and, cascade, Italian citizens all. We would have expected a little'more courage to make comments and suggestions, especially in the environmental field, to realize that new green deal efficient and effective, in the light of our being among the most prepared and active countries in the environmental field, despite the slowness and lack of foresight of the Ministry and this Government. This is because we live it from the point of view of impositions and not benefits. The transposition work adapted to the differences between the country and the country should and must be the central work of our Government in the interlocations. We have no doubt that the European Union is necessary - it has brought peace, stability and well-being - but it cannot be perceived exclusively as a system of aseptic rules alone, as a limitation of the actions of the Member States which create iniquity, but as a turbine to engage an acceleration in the economic and social engine of each individual State. The data and statistics speak for themselves. All too often, even by us, Europe is perceived as a distant institution, as anything else from us, whereas, on the contrary, we should feel it as the mother of every state and aggregation. We must always bear in mind the centrality of the delegation law, as it consists of a multitude of legislative delegations that Parliament gives away, it transfers to the Government to adapt the regulatory framework to European acts. European legislation will therefore become a law in Italy and will affect many - perhaps too many - sectors, but above all - as I said - the daily life of the whole country system. I would remind myself and this House that in this text there are directives governing, among other things: mechanisms for resolving disputes in tax matters, reducing emissions, implementing the agreement on employment in the fisheries sector, combating fraud affecting the Union's financial interests through criminal law, waste management and so on. With regard to waste management, I am not going back to the end of waste and the need to do it soon, soon, soon. The recycling of inert waste from construction and demolition, out-of-use tyres, road sweeping waste, WEEE, oils, animal and vegetable fats, tetrapak and much more is still blocked. As you can see, we are talking about central issues: justice, the environment, industry, health, economy, agriculture, fisheries. Millions of Italians should necessarily deal with these new provisions. This is the impact of these rules, which makes it all the more necessary to quickly identify models that make it possible to anticipate the impact of this legislation on the socio-economic fabric which is undergoing it. It is also desirable that there should be a decisive simplification in the process of drafting directives, because contemporaryness requires serious answers, in a short time, to the challenges that the world imposes on us. Forza Italia - you know - is an intimately Europeanist and, therefore, it is unthinkable for us to vote against European directives. The time has come, however, to cease the role of mere transposition of other people's decisions. We must and can be more effective in the drafting of directives, with greater involvement of trade associations, social partners and, more generally, of all the actors concerned. That is why we asked not only for the involvement of the State and the Regions, but also for the participation of the municipalities in the meetings. We must do this in order to have a realistic Community negotiation, aimed at a purpose, which must be that of the common good of our nation. It is from this type of mechanism that the European Union should share; from that initial spirit that focused on the benefits to be brought to its citizens and not from being a superstate, which tends to regulate every aspect of production and life. Italy, the founding country, must recover the central role that has been assigned to it by history and also by geography, and not only in the negative cases due to its location in the center of the Mediterranean. For us, this virtuous path should begin by stopping accusing Europe of all possible nefariousness. We have said this many times: this Europe is not perfect, but it certainly is the only chance we have to count something in a world dominated by giants, such as the United States, China and Russia. We must and we can do more, but in order to do so it is essential to regularise our relations with our Community partners, by extending our relations, which today are too tense with everyone. The current paradigm must be changed and a normal political dialectic must be resumed, which must necessarily leave room for a wider sharing of all that concerns Italy. This negotiation in Europe must be made fully legitimate and fully functional, so that the directives are previously built together and shared and, above all, adapted to the economic and social characteristics of each country, in order to become better and not penalising guidelines; a fertile protagonism, characterized not by dangerous muscular attitudes, but by a serious and structured political proposal, manifested with an appropriate dialectic, to make the negotiation in Europe fully legitimate, stronger, and to assert the importance of differences and enhance our specificities. As expressed in my speech, with the renewed hope that the European directives will increasingly result from dialogue and sharing, in the precise awareness that Europe is made up of states with their own peculiar characteristics, which must be respected, and with the hope that Italy will become the protagonist again, I declare the abstention vote of the Forza Italia Group on the vote on the draft law of European delegation and the vote against on the consuntive report and on the programmatic one. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u182	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u184	LOREFICE (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to vote on the European delegation law, which, as we know, is one of the two instruments through which the Italian legal system complies with European legislation. But today is also a symbolic day for us: it is the first delegation law of this Government, the first since the elections on 26 May, which will be approved before the new European Commission is established. I therefore hope that today's day will be a symbol of the new course that Europe is about to launch, far from the past of austerity that has done very badly to this continent and even worse to Italy, and instead turned towards a social Europe, growth, the European minimum wage, the environment and innovation. These will have to be the polar stars who will lead the work of the new Commission chaired by Ursula von der Leyen, who received the vote in favour of our fellow spokesmen in Strasbourg on 17 July and the commitments that she made to the citizens of Europe. As you know, there is also the question of the Italian Commissioner, for whom we are looking - and we hope - at a weighty economic portfolio. We are sure that President Conte will point to a figure of certain value that will be able to do the interests of Italy within Europe and, therefore, also of Europe itself. The 5 Star Movement welcomed the words of Ursula von der Leyen, in particular those relating to the green deal for Europe within the first hundred days of her mandate, to be mentioned in an investment plan for a sustainable Europe, and to the transformation of the European Investment Bank into a so-called climate bank. But I am also thinking of the proposed innovation strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises or the promised flexibility, the strengthening of the role of the European Parliament and the development of the social pillar of the Union. In this respect, I would like to stress the announced proposal for the establishment of a European minimum wage and an unemployment insurance instrument: two fundamental battles of the 5 Star Movement, which finally also have a side in Europe, contrary to what happened with the Commission chaired by Juncker. Just the latter, a few weeks ago, with a joke he said it will be difficult to find his replacement. I would like to reply to Juncker with another line: we can reassure the President-elect von der Leyen by saying that it will be harder to do worse than his predecessor. Ladies and gentlemen, just a year after the establishment of this Government, it seems clear that the fruits of its work are already reaping in Europe. To hear the words of President von der Leyen, the times of austerity that strangled European citizens and economies seem far away. And we in the Movimento 5 Stars in Parliament and the Government will ensure that these words become deeds, not words, but deeds. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We will watch with great care. Turning to the measure under discussion today, I would like to thank the 14th The Commission of which I am a member, but also the others involved in the examination of the text, for the work that has been done. And I have to say that it was good understanding and interaction with the Commission territory, environment, environmental goods, with which we have deepened several points whose components I thank for their contribution The work was perhaps longer than normal and I hang up to some words spoken by Senator Ginetti. I would like to remind you that in 2013 the delegation law was voted on October 7 of the following year and that in 2016-2017 a single European delegation law was issued, approved on October 25, 2017. We, therefore, are largely within the times of previous years. 7:31 p.m. (Loreface followed). The contents listed are extremely significant and have called for a serious deepening, also thanks to the valuable help given by all the social partners, who have taken part in various hearings, bringing their requests, and I take this opportunity to thank them. Entering the merit of the article, we can safely say that the discontinuity with the past is clear and even the most distracted citizen would have no doubt about the paternity of the delegation law under consideration: we talk about environment, health, waste, which are only some of the issues dealt with in the text of the bill. More specifically, with this measure we implement the circular economy package in order to ensure a sustainable and clean future for future generations. In particular, I would like to mention Article 16 and the cessation of refusal, which takes place in the context of a stalemate which led to the risk of blocking the entire supply chain. With the forecast contained in the draft law, the Government is delegated to reform a very dated legislation, even dating back to 1998, largely outdated by technological progress, and it intervenes on the authorizations to give the companies of the supply chain the possibility to continue their work. So let us not stop the companies that work and have invested in this sector and we are already ready to enact the new rules on the end of waste. It has already been said, but I also want to remember that yesterday was the Earth Overshoot Day, that is the day when humanity exhausts the resources produced by the Planet in a given year. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of July and for the next five months what we will consume will be taken away from future generations, our children and our grandchildren. So let us think about what we do. We need to change course immediately and push for the other actors on the global scene to do the same. That is why it is so important to transpose the rules in question and to make every effort to ensure that Italy and Europe are promoted in the major international fora of change. With this draft law, we transpose directives Nos. 851 and 852 of 2018 on packaging and packaging waste. This is an extremely important issue for the world and Italy in particular, also in order to reduce the dispersion of plastics that are killing one of our most important resources, the sea. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Another issue on which we delegate the Government to legislate concerns waste from electrical and electronic equipment and those from batteries and accumulators. In this field, always with a view to circular economy, we urge the Government to adopt measures to reduce waste, reuse and recycling. In relation to this, I would like to mention the Commission's forecast for the withdrawal of the very small WEEE even from distributors who do not sell electrical and electronic equipment. This type of waste, in fact, more than others escapes the correct disposal, causing serious damage to the environment. But there are many other noteworthy predictions. I am thinking of measures to protect human health, such as the transposition of the Ionising Radiation Directive, which is only now being transposed - thanks to this majority and this Government - or the new Radon National Plan, being exposure to radon as one of the main causes of lung cancer. Continuing on this subject, it is important to point out the transposition of the directives on safety in navigation, which are fundamental not only for those who work on a ship, but also for all the citizens who use it. Mr President, what I am presenting is the radical change of pace that has taken place in government action and in Parliament's acts since 1 June last year, including in Europe. We work to change Europe, to make it fairer and more supportive. It's not an easy or short route, but we're taking it forward. At the same time, however, we must deal with the status quo and bring the best out of the current situation. I believe that the difference with those before us is clear: in the past, Europe has been asked for flexibility in terms of electoral tips. The pacts are now being respected, measures are being taken for growth, youth employment and support for the most disadvantaged groups, while at the same time action is being taken in the right direction for the environment, human and animal health and for the safety of people. Mr President, I should like to end by congratulating the new Minister, whom I hope to see shortly in this House and in the Commission. We need a strong Minister, who will give us support in Europe for the policies of the European Union. Announcement, therefore, the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group, because Italy and Europe need it. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u185	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 944, as a whole, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, having to move on to motion for a resolution No 2, accepted by the Government, I warn you that two amendments have been tabled on this proposal, the texts of which are distributed. Before declaring whether or not the amendments tabled are admissible, I have a short suspension of the work. (The sitting was suspended at 7.40 p.m. and resumed at 7.57 p.m.) Colleagues, the problem, which we will not resolve here and which will be the subject of a debate in the Council for the Rules of Procedure, stems from the fact that Article 144 bis, paragraph 7, provides that: After the final vote on the draft European law and the European delegation, the Assembly shall decide on any resolutions submitted pursuant to paragraph 6. In view of several proposals, the first vote is the one accepted by the Government, to which each Senator may propose amendments. The amendments which have been tabled reproduce in a textual way the same words as the other motions for resolutions. Of course this could be interpreted, but it will be up to the Junta to do so, as a circumventing of the fact that, once the motion for a resolution has been voted on, on which there is a favourable opinion, the next ones cannot be put to the vote, because they are precluded. All this, however, by referring to that place of study, I accept the two amendments and I accept these reflections, which will be considered at the next meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and I ask the authors if they wish to explain them.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u186	Mr President, thank you for accepting the amendments, despite the doubt of interpretation. The Brothers of Italy Group wanted to table as amendments to the motion for a resolution, since it is a programmatic report for 2019, the watchwords of the vision of Brothers of Italy in the European context, and that have often been more than shared by different political forces, in particular by the League, but also by the 5 Star Movement: so we trust that they can be transposed. Very quickly, the first amending proposal concerns the issue of birth and demography. We all know that the European continent's main problem is demographics and a birth rate which is insufficient for the renewal of the European population, and that is why it should be normal for the European Union's main priority and expenditure to be related to birth policies, but that is not the case. Of all the priorities of the European Union, there is no priority for birth and demography, and we therefore call for the government to be active in introducing it. The second priority is those which, in the communication, are called civilization duties. Europe, rightly, has very strict social regulations, protection of workers and the environment, but if we indiscriminately open European borders to goods from states that do not comply with our own laws, we will have unfair competition from products from outside the European Union against those produced in Europe. This will either create social dumping in Europe, which will have to lower its standards in order to remain competitive, or will put our producers and our companies in great difficulty. We are therefore talking about civilization duties at the entry of products, so as not to create this difficulty. Another priority is the euro. Beyond the idea that each of us has about the single currency, it is a fact that in the eurozone it involves distortions between the different European countries. A recent study, made by a prestigious German think tank, showed that, over the course of the 20 years of the euro, each German earned 23,000 euros only thanks to the existence of the single currency, while each Italian lost 75,000 euros. These are evidence, regardless of the opinions of each of us. So, even without questioning the euro, we could think about a compensation mechanism, within the European Union, between the States which benefit from the single currency and those which are penalised, for example by providing infrastructure investments, directly borne by the European budget, in favour of the states that are penalised. In addition, we propose to declare the European Union out of the context of the UN global compact for immigration. This debate has been very much heard in recent times, but it has also divided Europe. Borders are unique and entry rules should be common. I'm going very fast. This amendment also addresses the issue of combating illegal immigration. We simply ask that, in order to combat illegal immigration into the Central Mediterranean, the European Union invests the same figures as it has spent on the Balkan route (i.e. the EUR 6 billion that has been given by the European Union to Turkey). This amendment also proposes calling into question the bizarre system of the CFA franc, whereby the former French colonies pay 50% of the value of their exports to the French Treasury. We call for this mechanism to be replaced by the CFA euro, so that the European Central Bank does not ask for this money to be paid to Africa, so that it can give real help to Africa. Finally, we call for a reference to the classical and Christian roots of Europe to be included in the European Constitution. Those outlined seem to us to be more than acceptable issues, and we therefore hope that the House will support this amendment. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u187	Amendment 2.1 is intended to be explained. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u188	Mr President, the opinion is against both amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u189	Mr President, the opinion is against Amendment 2.1. On Amendment 2.2, the Government returns to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u190	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Pittella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Lorefice, Pucciarelli and Giannuzzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It is therefore foreclosed that motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11,
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u191	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1416. The rapporteur, Senator Santillo, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u192	Mr President, I would ask the Presidency to be able to hand over the text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u193	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Let's give him a big round of applause, ladies and gentlemen, at 8:00 p.m. on July 30th. [[Applause.]] There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u194	Mr President, I am in favour of the G1,100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u195	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u196	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1,100 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u197	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u198	You have the floor, and I would like to point out to you that the written texts of the speeches are welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u199	DE FALCO (Mixed). I welcome the invitation, Mr President, and ask for permission to hand over the written text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Thank you very much and I would ask colleagues to give you a round of applause. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u200	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u202	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this measure and, as we have already said in the general debate, we hope that the further time available for the decrees that are being discussed will be used to make that working table with the organizations in the sector and finally find a solution to the problems that have been raised. I would ask for permission to hand over the written text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Colleagues, let's give Senator D'Arienzo a round of applause. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u203	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u204	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u205	PERGREFFI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in announcing the Lega Group's vote in favour, we hope that the requests and sensitivities of the parties we will be hearing in order to carry out the measure can be taken into account and that the time available will therefore be adequate. I would ask for permission to hand over the written text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u206	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u207	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u209	DE SIANO (FI-BP). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group also supports this measure. We have not obstructed the Commission or tabled amendments, with the hope that the majority forces and the government can have a more serious, in-depth and appropriate debate on a vital issue for our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u210	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u212	RICCIARDI (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars Parliamentary Group, I am voting in favour of this extension, which we will benefit from in the Commission from public works. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u213	Thank you all for your kind cooperation. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Senate approved the measure unanimously: it had to wait on July 30 at 20:11 to achieve these results.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u214	As has already been agreed in the short term, tomorrow's sitting will begin at 10 a.m. with the reading of the Minutes and its approval. Then there will be a suspension to allow the meeting of the group leaders and the sitting will resume at the end of this meeting, although I think everyone already knows the content of the meeting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u215	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u217	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I am speaking because there have been two very serious incidents in Sardinia on the night that has just passed. Once again an intimidating gesture has been made towards a local administrator, the mayor of Cardedu, to whom I feel the duty to manifest all the solidarity of the Democratic Party Group, and then there was a very serious attack at the headquarters of the Democratic Party of Dorgali. I want to point out that Dorgali's is a historic seat, a symbol of the Democratic Party in Sardinia. It was built by the Dorgalese community with the intervention of the villagers and was, as I said, a symbol. Unfortunately, the attack was extremely serious. It happened in an extremely industrious community, a tourist resort, at 1:30 a.m., when there were still a lot of people around. Those who saw the images were impressed. There are the windows stuck in the opposite wall, so it's a fact that it didn't cause many deaths simply by chance, if we want for a stroke of luck. What has happened, however, is a sign of a grave malaise that is widespread on the island that most of the time feels abandoned from Rome and, beyond the beautiful words that have been said even in the last period, concrete facts are seen really few. I therefore feel the duty to express to the whole democratic community of Dorgali, to that of Nuoro (I am from Nuoro) and to the whole of the democratic community of Sardinia, precisely because that seat represents a symbol of the Democratic Party in Sardinia, all solidarity and closeness. I believe that it is necessary to express it to the whole of the Dorgalese community, an extremely active community that will also react to this gesture. However, I hope and ask for attention from the Government, in particular from Minister Salvini. I believe that the situation has become so serious that it is necessary and useful to immediately convene the Provincial Committee for Public Order and Security in which it is hoped that Minister Salvini will participate and ensure effective, and not only with words, drastic and decisive intervention. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u218	Senator Cucca, the Presidency also expresses its personal and general closeness and solidarity.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u219	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u221	LONARDO (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with my speech at the end of the sitting I would like to make a heartfelt appeal to Minister Costa from the city of Benevento, which has always been deprived of the purifier. Given that the Municipality of Benevento and the Campania Region, in agreement with the Commissioner of Government Rolle, have put in place all the actions and all the possible investments, said also that the current mayor of Benevento, just installed, has also been given a warning of guarantee by the local judiciary without that he had no responsibility in this regard, responsibility that is instead all to be charged to the previous administrations that have happened in time and on which, strangely and inexplicably, no judicial mortgage, even if they are very unfulfilled; said, finally, that the mayor and the regional government have recovered funds for a value of 12 million euros, funds that had ended up in peremption, and also taking into account that the Ministers of this Government of change are not allowed to answer the questions that the senators present, I see myself forced to ask the Minister Costa whether he intends to hold to what he declared and established in a special meeting at the Ministry, in the presence of the institutional representatives of the Municipality of Benevento and Commissioner Rolle, to assign the figure of 20 million euros for the construction of the constitution, to deliver it to the whole community of Benevento. I also ask when this will possibly happen, having already passed a few months from his promise and the guarantees given to the city of Benevento. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u222	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u223	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u224	FENU (M5S). Mr President, at 9 p.m. on Sunday 28 July, a fire broke out in the countryside of Siniscola in Sardinia: 15 families were evacuated, two houses were completely destroyed and many others were damaged by fire; at least 200 cattle died and 600 hectares were destroyed between pastures and orchards. The damage, which could be even more serious and cost someone's life, was limited thanks to the efforts of about 200 men who worked tirelessly and with extreme difficulty: Civil protection, fire department, State Forestry Corps, staff of the Regional Forestry Agency for the development of the territory and the environment of Sardinia (Forestas), barracks, city guards, Police and Carabinieri and, above all, many volunteers. To all these people must go our most heartfelt thanks. I share the expressed desire to ask the Government for the state of emergency. We have a duty to always deal with this scourge, not only in emergencies. In this sense, I am obliged to recall the work that Mr Alberto Manca has been carrying out in recent months, with his proposal for a law to set up a state agency to manage the Canadair fleet and pilot training. Above all, however, I feel obliged to thank the volunteers who participated in the shutdown operations and in the rescue of the people. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I feel obliged to thank the shepherds, like Gianuario Falchi, who a few hours from the stake has launched an appeal to everyone to contribute materially and help the farms affected by the stake. I feel obliged to thank all the City Council of Siniscola, the minority and majority forces, the mayor and the Junta, who shared and made their own appeal, activating a current account in solidarity with the citizens and workers damaged by the fire. Last night, during the City Council, a minority member made a peremptory and non-trivial statement: Let's make a community! The community is one of the three pillars of society, keeps the individual anchored to a series of real human networks and gives him a sense of identity. When these tragic events happen, the community re-emerges with all the strength of its role, in the form of participation, solidarity and commitment to the benefit of the community itself. That is why I join in the call for solidarity launched by the pastors and the municipality and I make my own the phrase given in the City Council: let's make community! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u225	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-139.ana.u226	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Wednesday 31 July, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.20 p.m.
