ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:37 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders has established that in today's sitting, without closing hours, the voting of the amendments tabled to the decree-law unblocks yards will take place. Motions on combating climate change will be discussed at 8 p.m. The vote on any remaining amendments to the Decree-Law will continue, again in today's sitting, after the motions have been discussed. The explanations of vote and the final vote of the decree will take place tomorrow, starting at 10 a.m. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting also provides for the discussion of motions on Radical Radio. The question time already planned for this week will not take place. It remains confirmed that next week will be devoted mainly to the work of the Commissions. A session of the Assembly was scheduled on Wednesday 12 June, from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m., for the discussion of the following measures already foreseen in this week's calendar: draft law linked to the public finance maneuver concerning the concreteness of the actions of the public administrations; draft law on the contrast to the Circ Convention of the elderly; ratification with Kenya on the Space Centre Luigi Broglio; resolution of the Agriculture Commission on the invasion of the Asian marble bug. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, I would ask you a little'silence, because from here it is hard with this buzz. The continuation of the discussion of these topics, if not concluded, will take place in the week from 18 to 20 June, after the examination of the decree-law on the health service of the Calabria Region and the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 20 and 21 June. The other measures on the timetable remain confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1248. I would remind you that at its meeting on 29 May the rapporteurs carried out the oral report, a preliminary question was rejected and the general discussion and replies of the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government took place. The 5th Commission has just completed its work. I ask Senator Pesco to inform us about their outcome and to tell us, because the written opinion has not yet arrived, if we can start voting on Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u6	Mr President, the work ended about ten minutes ago and unfortunately it takes time to draw up the opinion. I am satisfied with the work that has been done and I thank my colleagues and the officials who have helped us. It would take at least two hours to complete. If we suspend the sitting until about 11.30 a.m., we will have time to bring a job well done to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u9	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, the Conference of Leaders had unanimously established a timetable which provided for a suspension at 8 p.m. for the discussion of motions on the fight against climate change. I would propose a reversal of this passage in order to take now those about two and a half hours that we would have engaged this evening. In this way, as soon as the debate on motions is over, we would be ready to start voting on the amendments to the decree-law unblocking yards since the Budget Commission would have time to collect texts. If there are no comments, we could proceed in this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u12	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I am sorry but I cannot accept Mr Patuanelli's proposal. At the Conference of the Leaders we made a very forced choice, which we agreed - as always - only because of our sense of responsibility towards the institutions. However, I would like to point out that the decisive amendment, at least for the majority, concerning the amendment of the procurement code - so it is not a joke, but a very complicated thing - came to me at 9 p.m. last night. We committed the night and the morning to deciding how to vote because we had to analyse the text. Therefore, these two hours which the Commission is asking for in itself to draw up the final opinion, we would like to use them to verify the text that has been delivered, which is still very late. The procedure, in our opinion, is very unusual: there have been rewritten sub-amendments, the amendments have been reworded several times and with a technical artifice it has been intended to prevent us from proposing sub-amendments to the text of the majority. There is also a limit to patience and to pretend not to see that there is a regulation that is not respected. That's enough: two hours of time we want to use to read what you gave us last night at 9 p.m. As far as we are concerned, climate change motions will be discussed again, not on our own responsibility, but on the majority that governs. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u15	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, this is not an intervention on how we have come to this situation, on delays, the internal clashes of the majority and the contradictions, in some cases even humiliating, for Parliament. At this point, however, I believe that Senator Patuanelli's proposal is reasonable and respects the decisions taken within the Conference of Leaders. The opinion of the Democratic Party is therefore in favour of the proposal to start with the motions on combating climate change. Among other things, today is a particularly important day: we have insisted very much that the motions on this subject could be discussed on the World Environment Day and, therefore, we are very pleased to start with them, since they are so relevant to us. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u18	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, we too will not waste our time in this House, which unfortunately has already lost so much of it because of the continuous dissides of the majority. Among other things, the most annoying aspect, not only for the work of Parliament, but above all for the lack of respect for the citizens, is that the work done in the Commission has not been taken into account. I have to say that the amendment is also very preclusive of all the amendments and sub-amendments that have been drawn up, sometimes even with the consent of a large part, if not of unanimity, of the members of the Commission. In fact, we want to leave on the record - not only for us, but for all those who listen to us, which I hope there are many - that we have tried to make the best of the measure in our examination, although we do not agree with the final version of it, so that the construction sector and the real estate sector can finally open up the yards that should restart growth. However, having already stigmatized the most negative aspects, namely the loss of time and the lack of consideration of the reasons of the minority, which however represents a significant part of our country, we cannot endorse a further waste of time and therefore accept the reasonable proposal of President Patuanelli to discuss first the motions on the fight against climate change and, subsequently, examine the amendments related to the measure unblocks yards. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u21	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I have to say that we are a little overwhelmed by the fact that we are now getting used to a continuous change of scenery, with a very high level of responsibility. You, Mr President, are witnessing that this was our proposal. We proposed that we discuss this morning the motions on combating climate change, not least because they provide for very precise deadlines, but the majority did not accept this proposal. Now we get there. We believe it is important to discuss the motions today because the World Environment Day is not only a ritual celebration, it presupposes that at last the political decision-makers and, therefore, we too, give precise indications in this House to combat the environmental crisis and its climate change. That is why we too have access to the proposal to start discussing the motions on combating climate change.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u24	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I do not want to dwell on the method by which we have dealt with the measure in the Budget Commission. I would remind you that we received an amendment last night, which I would like to call a super amendment to Article 1, which would have to be studied very well because it is very complicated. Despite this, I think the proposal made by Senator Patuanelli is reasonable: we have no more time to waste and I think that the issue we want to talk about now is extremely important; so we agree that the examination of climate change motions should now begin.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u27	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I cannot help noticing that there was obviously an agreement before the beginning of the sitting of this House between the political forces, for which we were not asked. [[Comments]] Therefore, I note that the Conference of Leaders is of no use at all and that the rights of the smaller groups are not taken into account, even in relation to our internal procedure, about the speeches and the possibility of intervening, which at this moment sees us penalized, because the senator of our Group who should have intervened this evening is not in this Chamber. Mr President, I would therefore appeal to you to ensure that what you decided at the Conference of Leaders is maintained. Otherwise I ask you for a suspension, in order to present a text 2 to an amendment of Brothers of Italy on the decree-law unblocks yards and I ask you also for the possibility of subembodiment or rewriting subembodiments. I want to understand if you deny me this possibility or allow me, as you have allowed your colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars and the League. I want to know if there is a single Regulation or if there is one that works for the League and the majority and another that works for the oppositions. So, Mr President, I would ask you to give me an answer: I would like to present a text 2 to an amendment tabled by Brothers of Italy. Will you allow me time to present it and allow me to deposit it? Because this is what happened to the majority yesterday and the previous days.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u28	First of all, I would like to say to you, Senator Ciriani, that I do not allow you, like anyone else, to say that this is an odd treatment, depending on whether it is the majority or the opposition. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] This I do not allow, having worked all week to verify the eligibility and having done it with a billboard, which means equal law for all. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] Having said that, you should know more about Rule 56 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate than in paragraph 3... ( [[Comments of Senator Ciriani]] ). Allow me. I let her talk. That, as I said, in paragraph 3 provides exactly the possibility of the reversal of the discussion of the topics on the agenda, following certain rules, which I will observe pedissequa. Having said that, I would urge you to withdraw the statements you have unwisely made or to apologize for them. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u31	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, I too find it difficult to accept that there is a violation of the principle of fairness among the Presidents of the Groups, as President Ciriani has just said. I have not had any intercourse and this can be confirmed by Senator Bernini, Senator Marcucci, Senator De Petris and other Presidents, except with President Romeo who, of course, being part of the majority, I heard three minutes ago on the phone before making that proposal: of course I do so with my majority colleague. There has been no other intercourse with the Leaders, otherwise I do it with everyone, as always and as always I have done in this parliamentary year. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I have put forward a proposal to this House and it is a proposal that I would have liked to have taken forward unanimously, because it did not seem to me to be detrimental to any rights. Then there is Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure and then we shall vote on the proposal. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u32	"According to Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the subscribers of the present request the reversal of the order of business, with the discussion of the motions on climate change, before the vote on the bill n. 1248." Here is the subscription of the eight senators, pursuant to and for the effects of Rule 56, paragraph 3, of the Senate's Rules of Procedure. As we must gather all the members of those who wish to speak, I suspend the sitting for a quarter of an hour, so that the various groups can present the list of Members to speak. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 9.56, and resumed at 10.19 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u33	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00085 (text 3), tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other Senators, 1-00097, tabled by Senator Gallone and other Senators, 1-00122, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, and 1-00135, tabled by Senator L'Abbate and other Senators, on combating climate change. After the explanations of the motions, each Group will have twenty minutes, including the timing of the debate and explanations of vote. Since each group has obviously shared the time available to it, in order to facilitate the work of the House, it will be the Presidency's responsibility to remind the senators that they will have to intervene. I call Senator Ferrazzi to explain motion No 85 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today is the World Climate Day, particularly dedicated to climate pollution, air pollution and climate crisis. Our planet is facing profound climate change and, in the absence of concrete action, these phenomena could lead us within a few years to a point of no return. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has repeatedly outlined the situation and warned about the irreversible effects of climate change, calling on States to take urgent decisions. The changes that are taking place also concern our country - as has been dramatically seen in the devastations of autumn 2018, in many ways unprecedented - and they no longer make only mitigation policies sufficient, and therefore they also require adaptation policies both in the territories and in the cities. According to the Intergovernmental Group, there is a close relationship between human activity and climate change. With the current rate by 2030, the global average temperature is likely to rise by 1.5 degrees Celsius. This increase would result in the dissolution of the permafrost, the raising of the seas, the disappearance of large coastal areas, the spread of infectious diseases, the emergence of new pathologies, as well as ecosystem damage to forests and wetlands, the increase of desertification and the reduction of drinking water available. The response must be immediate and cannot compromise the need to progressively reduce greenhouse gas emissions. At the Paris Climate Conference in December 2015, 195 countries adopted the first universal and legally binding agreement on the global climate. The Agreement defined a global action plan not to exceed the average temperature increase of one and a half degrees Celsius and set the objective of limiting the increase in global temperature well below two degrees Celsius. Although important in its intentions, the Agreement has so far not produced adequate global measures to implement the commitments it has made and therefore to be decisive in order to intervene and reverse the current trend. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] On 27 May, the Pontifical Academy of Sciences organized an international conference entitled "Climate change and new evidence from science, engineering, and policy". On that occasion the Pope spoke with a report on a common plan for the survival of the planet. In the speeches of all the scientists present, regarding the agreements on the UN's Sustainable Development Goals and those on the climate at the COP21 conference in Paris, it has emerged that in reality, even this year and in the previous two years, investments on fossil fuels continue to grow. Meanwhile, Mr President, the International Energy Agency has recently shown that investments in clean energy have decreased for the second consecutive year. The result - to say one - is that the concentration of carbon dioxide, among the major causes of global warming, has reached 415 parts per million, the highest level ever achieved on our planet. An important step in the fight against global climate change will therefore be, within the EU, to approve, in the final version, by December this year, the integrated national energy and climate plan. In a separate legislative resolution, the European Parliament agreed that in 2030 the share of renewable energy must be 35% of the European Union's energy consumption. The document - as provided for in Regulation 2018/1999/EU on the governance of the Energy Union - will be the subject of a wide-ranging discussion in Brussels in recent months in response to the draft plans sent by the Member States. Italy on that occasion will have the opportunity to update, refine and improve targets and objectives to make them uniform to those laid down in the plan approved by the European Parliament and the Paris Agreement. As far as our country is concerned, grasping the centrality of the climate crisis means first of all accelerating the energy transition towards the use of renewable sources and energy efficiency with a gradual overcoming of fossil fuels. The process of decarbonisation that requires demanding interventions, supported by progressive carbon tax measures to be combined with mechanisms of compensation and protection of both competitiveness (the border tax) and social sustainability, and with a gradual reallocation of existing subsidies harmful to the environment and territories, must be pursued with momentum. At the same time, Mr President, it is necessary and urgent to launch a plan to adapt to climate change. Mitigation, i.e. emission reduction, is no longer sufficient, because the climate is now structurally modified. It is therefore necessary to adopt a policy for territories that revisits and reinforces policies to prevent and mitigate risks and damage caused, for example, by landslides and floods. Hydrogeological failure must be addressed with land management that takes into account the new climate environment, so that risks and damage can be prevented and mitigated. In this context, particular attention should be paid to the themes of urban regeneration and to more incisive rules on soil consumption, as well as to all interventions, in an infrastructural logic, restoration of habitats and hydrographic networks. Mr President, it is quite clear that cities are and will be increasingly central in terms of demographics and development and, therefore, will be, for these reasons too, the most energetic and polluting places. Special attention will therefore be essential in them and for them. The management of water, due to the increasing rainfall of floods and the persistent drought phases, must be able to rely on timely legislation that, by reaffirming the public nature of the water, allows economies of scale, ensures homogeneous quality and guarantees security of supply. Now there is no time to extend, but in the text that we will of course deliver a definition is specified on the basis of tariffs. Water scarcity and crop crisis are just some of the immediate effects that the current climate crisis generates, especially in some parts of the world, where countless people are reduced to famine and are driven towards mass migration, which, in the long term, take on an uncontrollable scale. The Nairobi Assembly last month spoke of climate migration as a traumatic event of the present and the future. The green economy, President, is not a sectoral issue for sensitive to the issue, but a real integrated approach, capable of both a comprehensive vision and targeted interventions throughout the production and consumption process. The circular economy is a fundamental pillar of the green economy. More must be done, without further delay and hesitation, and action must be swift, decisive and joint. There is a collective and moral obligation for future generations to do everything humanly possible to stop climate change and to respond to their dramatic effects. Mr President, I shall finish. Italy can take a leading role in this process in the world. For all these reasons, President and senators, we ask to declare the state of environmental and climatic emergency of the country and to work, together with Parliament, to reach a change of direction in all sectors of our economy, so as to allow, in rapid and certain times, in compliance with scientific indications and international agreements, the necessary energy transition that pushes our country towards the reduction of polluting emissions into the atmosphere and the progressive decarbonization of the economy. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u35	I call Senator Berutti to explain motion No 97.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u36	Mr President, the Paris Agreement, approved on 12 December 2015 at the 21st session of the Conference of the Parties to the Climate Convention (COP21), was an important step forward in a still very long and rough path to counter global warming. Within the framework of the United Nations Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), the Agreement included elements for a progressive reduction of global greenhouse gas emissions and was based, for the first time, on common principles valid for all countries without distinction between industrialised countries and developing countries. One of the main objectives was to direct private and state financial flows towards low-emission greenhouse gas development and to improve adaptation capacity to climate change. Following this important stage, the Marrakech Conference in 2016 (COP22), the Bonn Conference in 2017 (COP23) and last, in December 2018, the Katowice Conference (COP24), in which rules were established to put into practice by 2020 what was decided at COP21, the Paris Climate Conference in 2015. In particular, the criteria for measuring carbon dioxide emissions and assessing measures to combat climate change in individual countries have been decided. The Conference was attended by representatives of 196 countries, including the United States, despite the fact that President Donald Trump withdrew the United States of America from the Paris Agreement. The main contrast that emerged during the Conference was the latest report of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), which deals with the scientific analysis of climate trends and the production of models on its evolution. In the report, the IPCC confirmed that an average global temperature increase of at least 1.5 degrees Celsius on pre-industrial levels is now inevitable - it will take place over the next twelve years - and that in order to keep within three degrees Celsius of overall increase it will be necessary to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 45% by 2020. In the absence of radical actions, the average temperature will increase beyond two degrees Celsius leading to more extreme climatic events and changing the climate of entire geographical areas, with consequences for millions of people. Although two of the largest countries in the world (the United States and Russia) have expressed considerable concerns about the choices to be made in relation to the future of the planet, technical decisions have been taken on how the different countries, depending on their level of development, will have to reduce their carbon dioxide emissions. Climate change, as a cause and multiplier of risks, is an important challenge for humanity and all countries and actors at global level must do their best to combat them through individual incisive actions. In this context, Italy's commitments to major international events have always been clear and clear in its desire to contribute to an improvement in climate and environmental conditions. In fact, it is recent news that the European Commission has referred our country to the Court of Justice of the European Union for the repeated violation of the annual limits of nitrogen dioxide in the air of the cities and for the failure to adapt to the EU rules of waste water treatment systems of more than 700 agglomerations and 30 sensitive areas from the environmental point of view. With this in mind, we must bear in mind that, without profoundly changing the current production system, global warming cannot be mitigated. It goes without saying that the production system is modified only by upstream measures, firstly by a new energy policy that favours the use of low-carbon technologies and energy sources and defines a real decarbonisation road map covering all sectors, through public investment, tax incentives and simplification. It is clear that fossil fuels are a problem today and in a few decades' time they must be exceeded, compared to today's simple reduction, in order to respect the emission levels that have been decided in Paris. These are land planning choices aimed at promoting economic development in a sustainable way, as an alternative to a fossil fuel-based model and on which the current Government has a duty to give clear and coherent signals. Another major issue on which it is important to pay attention is a new environmental tax as an imperative for future economic policies. Only in this way can Italy fully fit into the European process designed with the new directive on the circular economy, moving taxation from work to pollution of production processes and products after and during their use. A key chapter also concerns environmental taxation in the field of goods and products. In this context, the direction is to review value added tax, with the aim of directing the market towards sustainable modes of production and consumption, including, for example, a reduced tax regime for manufactured goods made with a percentage of recycled material, i.e. shifting taxation from work to pollution. On 8 January 2019, the proposal for an Integrated National Plan for Energy and Climate sent to Brussels by the Ministry of Economic Development in conjunction with the Ministry of the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport was announced. As provided for in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union, the document will be discussed at European level in the coming months to arrive at a final version by the end of 2019. The Plan contains the energy and climate targets that Member States undertake to achieve by 2030. The document should also indicate the instruments (policies, measures and their economic cover) through which - credibly - these objectives are to be achieved. To seize this possibility does not mean to slow down the infrastructural and technological process - as many would like - but rather a dynamic commitment aimed at conceiving the investments in great works, such as the high-speed train and the modernization of the railway network, more competitive and more convenient, from the point of view of the environmental impact, of the road transport, especially with regard to the goods. The aim must be to achieve a safe, economical, efficient and sustainable energy; an expanding and, at the same time, increasingly decarbonised economy; a neutral approach to all energy sources, starting from an analysis of the entire life cycle and rewarding sources that can actually ensure the greatest benefits for the environment, for the health of our citizens and for the economy of our country. For each kilogram of resource consumed our country generates (at purchasing power parity) 4 euros of GDP, against a European average of 2.2 and values between 2.3 and 3.6 of all the other major continental economies, as estimated by the Institute of Environmental Research Italy. Ours is the European country with the highest percentage of recycling on all waste (urban, industrial and so on, including mining) and this also thanks to innovative methods of waste management and advanced systems for their recovery. Several case-law judgments, last of which the decision of the Council of State n. 1229/2018, have provided a very restrictive interpretation in relation to the possibility for the competent authority (region or province by this delegate) to assess the existence of the conditions laid down in the norm. To stop this virtuous process, also through the failure to allow the Regions to define the criteria for the cessation of the qualification of refusal by case, casts a shadow of uncertainty on the numerous integrated ordinary authorisations that today enable the recovery of waste not regulated at Community and ministerial level. We therefore call on the Government to undertake to take responsibility, among the countries participating in the United Nations Climate Conference, for the adoption of a code requiring a high level of transparency, with robust rules binding on all parties in order to accurately measure progress and strengthen confidence among the parties involved in the international process. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. Mr Berutti (FI-BP). Just a few more minutes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. One minute, Senator Something's a little complicated. Please continue. Mr Berutti (FI-BP). Thank you. The Government is also committed to taking urgent action to reduce the limits of nitrogen dioxide, including not to incur infringement proceedings by the European Union. We also call on the Government to commit itself to propose as a matter of urgency a transitional rule in the interests of the implementation of the directive, which allows installations currently built but stationary to operate regularly in order to avoid the allocation of large quantities of waste to landfills; to ensure the financial autonomy of the local authorities that commit the resources deriving from taxation to enterprises; to provide for a public investment plan aimed at: promoting a new energy-environmental model; to equip public buildings, starting from schools, with photovoltaic systems and energy efficiency; to ensure the completion of capacity marketing, aimed at more diversification of sources of supply and support for renewable and programmable hydroelectric sources at the same time. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u37	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education Giovan Battista Odierna, of Palma di Montechiaro, in the province of Agrigento, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u38	Mr President, today - as many have said - is the world day for the environment and I think we should all make an effort to get out of the celebration ritual. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for decisions: we can no longer ignore anything, because the evidence of climate change and the threats to the human species they produce is now a fact acquired by the scientific community. I would like to recall the data quickly. In the last report on climate warming, published in October 2018 by the Intergovernmental Committee on Climate Change (IPCC), it is clear that limiting warming to 1.5 degrees requires rapid decisions and urgent, immediate and forward-looking changes in all aspects of society. These changes are absolutely necessary because we are at a point where there is a risk of no return. We're practically past that already. Being already in 2019, we have eleven years to be able to quickly contain the increase in temperature. The Paris Agreement - certainly an important step forward - did not produce those changes, however, with the assumption of responsibility on the part of individual countries, which make us hope to take decisions on urgent changes, on a transition, especially energy, and a real industrial revolution, absolutely necessary. Unfortunately, the recent Climate Conference held in Katowice in Poland in December 2018 also confirmed a lack of effectiveness in making binding commitments. I think it is absolutely necessary to realize another issue which, especially in our country and in Europe, is not considered in its entirety, which I would like to recall very quickly. There is a very dangerous trend observed in the Mediterranean area. We have been accustomed to hearing in the narration that climate change can have a more dramatic effect maybe outside this area and, instead, it is precisely in the Mediterranean area that it has been observed not generically, but with scientific data, widely confirmed also by our National Research Council, the greatest increase. We have seen in the Mediterranean area an increase of 1,58, far above - dangerously above - the average temperature increase of one degree. I therefore believe, to an even greater extent, that Italy must not only be the protagonist of an effective campaign and initiative in Europe to speed up emissions reduction targets, but also take decisions. The motion that we are presenting today proposes the declaration of the state of climate and environmental emergency, because it is necessary to do things quickly, not only go to the demonstrations or receive - as we did in the Senate - Greta Thunberg. We need to act immediately to start the real processes to speed up the energy transition. The first question is as follows: we have to end fossil subsidies. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] , and not just because we need those resources to invest them in the energy transition, renewables and an accelerated sustainability plan. We must do this because this means not calling into question and shutting down once and for all with the fossil economy. We no longer have time: we must speed up and anticipate a plan of adaptation. We do not just need a large ecological conversion, we need to introduce all the elements for the mitigation plan and, therefore, we need to strongly contain and reduce emissions. We must also change all human activities and agriculture, investing in adaptation in every sector: a green new deal. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. We must unlock Italy in order to invest in a great green and ecological revolution of our economy. From there, the opportunities for new employment and a strong boost to the economy will not only come. We must do this because we have an obligation, first of all ethical and moral, to future generations. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u39	I call Senator L'Abbate to explain motion No 135.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be presenting motion No 135, which will have a rewording in commitments 2 and 8, the text of which I will deliver after the Presidency. I would point out that in 1988 the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) was set up, an international scientific forum for the study and evaluation of climate change established by the World Weather Organisation (WMO) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), with the aim of providing a scientific vision on the state of knowledge of climate change and its potential environmental and socio-economic impacts. Since its first evaluation report in 1990, the IPCC has revealed that carbon dioxide and other climatic gases such as nitrous oxide, methane and chlorofluorocarbons contribute to increasing the natural greenhouse effect and that human activities are among the main causes of the increase in the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. In 2018, NASA and the U.S. Air and Ocean Research Agency stated that the previous five years have been the hottest years of the last century. According to data collected and analysed by the Institute of Atmospheric Sciences and Climate of the National Research Council, 2018 was the hottest year ever recorded in Italy since 1800, with an anomaly above the average of 1.58 degrees, compared to the reference period from 1971 to 2000. The negative environmental impact of climate-altering emissions generated by human activities contributes to global warming, so-called global warming, and has as a consequence the increase in intensity and frequency of extreme weather phenomena, such as excessively high or extremely rigid temperatures - as happened in the last month - especially off-season, snowed at low altitude, exceptionally strong winds, water bombs and intense hailstorms, alternated with periods of severe drought. With the increase in extreme climate phenomena, the risks of hydrogeological disruption and, therefore, damage to our agriculture, infrastructure and territory are also increasing; these are impacts that cause insecurity in our cities and in terms of the health of our citizens. Currently, also the costs related to the hydrogeological failure of the Italian territory are high: it is estimated about 2.5 billion euros per year, but the figure could increase over the next decades, as well as the costs related to the containment of the fires and the safety of the territories. The increase in the average temperature at global level leads to the melting of glaciers, causing a rise in the sea level, which could reach particularly severe values within a few decades, with disastrous impacts in particular for the island regions and for those territories that have developed their economy and urban settlements on the coasts. In October 2018, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) presented its special report which, for the first time, assessed the impacts of climate change on the target of 1.5 degrees Celsius global temperature increase. The document has shown that global warming has already increased by one degree centigrade compared to pre-industrial levels and that it is growing by approximately 0.2 degrees centigrade to decade. At the last Conference of the Parties, held in December 2018 in Katowice, Poland, what is called the facilitative dialogue to promote new emission reduction commitments was launched. The conference concluded with the approval of the Operational Manual for the implementation of the Paris Agreement. The operational manual (rulebook) established, inter alia, the use of the new guidelines in the assessment of emissions emissions from climate change and the preparation by Member States of an emission inventory, with a two-year deadline. It must be considered that the Italian Government has developed a proposal for a fundamental instrument for the energy and environmental policy of our country for the next ten years, such as the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan (PNIEC) submitted to public consultation since 19 March 2019. In addition, in April last year, the European Parliament made provision for a regulation which, for the seven-year period 2021-2027, the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund cannot finance investments linked to polluting fuels such as oil and hydrocarbons. It is believed that being able to mitigate the effects of climate change - in particular the consequent impacts on the natural, humanized and urbanized environment - and to govern its causes is not only a moral duty towards future generations (which they have manifested every Friday in our squares), but also a strategic priority for the Italian national economy. For these reasons, on World Environment Day we ask the Government to make some commitments. We call for every initiative to decarbonise the economy within the framework of our own competences, while ensuring the security of the country's energy system, setting the European Union's long-term strategy for reducing greenhouse gas emissions as an objective. I refer to Communication COM (2018) 773 of 28 November 2018. In addition, we call for the implementation of any measure that favours the transition from fossil energy sources to renewable sources and from the linear economy to the circular economy, encouraging investment in research and eco-innovation. We also call for the development of eco-efficient production systems, using bio-economy and eco-design. Moreover, in order to reduce energy waste, we intend to commit the Government to further strengthen the path of energy eco-efficiency to be applied to public and private assets, including through synergies with the productive world for constant training of operators in all sectors. It also commits the Government to put in place every initiative aimed at promoting distributed self-production of energy from fossil sources (so the consumer is also producer, a prosumer); to promote, in synergy with local authorities, awareness-raising and information campaigns aimed at citizens, on good environmental practices aimed at the mitigation of climate change, including through the introduction of environmental education in schools of all degrees; to promote infrastructure development policies and interventions aimed at promoting virtuous initiatives of urban and extra-urban sustainable mobility, including intermodal transport for the direct benefit of the environment and ecosystems, but also of human health and well-being; to promote, in agreement with the regions and local authorities and the district basin authorities, within their competences, interventions aimed at the prevention of hydrogeological risk, as well as measures for the responsible use of soil; to implement, within their own competences, all the measures necessary to achieve the objectives of greenhouse gas reduction agreed at international and European level (in particular with the so-called Paris agreement), taking into account of the environmental, social and economic benefits related to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u41	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u42	Mr President, I would like to mention a couple of things quickly before entering the heart of the speech: chlorofluorocarbons have been banned since 1988, so as greenhouse gases there have been no longer more than thirty years; nitrogen dioxide (NO2) has no climatic power, whereas it has nitrogen oxide (N2O, also called nitrous oxide, according to the old chemical nomenclature). Having said that, I must say that I have been depressed by two aspects: the first was to see the presenters read their motions, as to mean that they have nothing more to say than what they wrote; the second is that the debate on this subject has been reduced to two hours, stolen from the decree-law so-called unblocking yards, when this is the debate, is the theme, while everything else is waste, they are nothing. The near economic, energy and climate future is on this point: speaking in terms of money, the companies that will make them in the future will be the ones that will deal with it (while the others are large unicorns, as they say on Wall Street, destined to disappear or become marginal). So much so in this House - which should bring together the best thinking heads to do the best for this nation - I would expect something different from decades of recipes. When I still hear about sustainable mobility, circular economy, electric mobility or the promotion of renewable energy sources in the condition of grid parity only if they agree, I feel like I'm going back to the 1970s. It is precisely the change of mind that is lacking: when we still hear the European Commission say no to disposable plastics, but the bottles of water continue to exist even if the casings make up 95% of the total cost, while only 5% is due to water, I say to myself that even economically the brain has evaporated. We still hear about circular economy in the sense of separate collection and recovery of matter. We have flooded the planet with residues that are ultimately not recycled, because we have an excess of waste, which, in spite of all that is said, has a problem of recoverability. Not surprisingly, the advocates of separate collection and point, which was good forty years ago, according to which plastic is recyclable endlessly, are colliding with the harsh reality that it goes back to those who do not want it anymore (China, Indonesia and India). The part about agriculture is completely missing: the IPCC has clearly said that alone - zeroing everything else - it takes us out of the path of 1.5 degrees; the question therefore is what is being talked about. We are still talking about transition to the electric vector instead of the combustion engine, which is from 1880 and it would also be time to think about it. Gentlemen, all studies say that one-to-one substitution is not even economically intelligent. Switching to a fleet of cars powered solely by batteries, at this time and also for the future, is a losing choice. The lack of materials, the energy cost and the supply chain of lithium disposal (which we all know to be a problem, as in the case of all the elements of its column in the periodic table) are all problems not addressed. Since the battery technology will be this for twenty years, i.e. lithium, lithium polymers or lithium in the metal state, we know that this will only create problems. I know, I'm in a bit of a hurry, because five minutes are really unimaginable. I'm shutting down another flash. There is one qualifying point in only one of these motions: point 4 of motion No 122, at the first signature of Senator De Petris, which concerns direct and indirect incentives to fossil sources. It is not possible that successive governments have only talked about reducing incentives for renewables, which is the only way to allow small producers to enter the market. They say we have to reduce them, because they cost too much, but then we have the elephant in the room of the 18 billion direct and indirect subsidies to which no one wants to put their hands. The Ministry of the Environment makes every year the catalogue of subsidies, which then resumes Legambiente. I wonder, why do we make him do it? Why do we want to hurt ourselves? Let us ignore him, let us continue to ignore the problem until the problem is as big (as it is now) as it will deal with us. This is the only path that awaits us. Therefore, either you put money on the carpet and you invest in debt (the debt in this case would be virtuous) or make a motion that is a generic declaration of intent (which really would be to read, to do the exegesis of the text and to understand exactly what it says) is something that I think is depressing and disqualifying for the whole Assembly. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u43	She is registered to speak Senator Messina Assuntela. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the only reason global warming seems unstoppable is because we have not yet tried to stop it. As much as they give the impression of an unprecedented awareness of the urgency of the issue, we are now even more aware of how all the commitments made at international level so far are insufficient to put in place a united, decisive and decisive action that effectively contrasts climate change. The phenomenon we are facing does not have equal in terms of nature, size and consequences, in terms of scope and complexity. The starting point of mature reasoning with respect to the environmental emergency can only be the need to give real centrality to the issue of climate change: knowing and knowing the issue remains the only indispensable foundation not only to give, but to organize a global response to the climate emergency. This process of action and awareness cannot be separated from a policy that has a duty to re-appropriate its role, guiding change and stopping reasoning according to the logic of the emergency; a policy that chooses rather to act and not only to remedy. I also want to consider how climate change is a serious risk to people's health and life, and how all this involves a re-reading of the issue that affects and affects the rights of human beings, especially those of communities most exposed to calamitous events, those living in the poorest areas of the planet, the most fragile people, the most vulnerable realities, who perhaps have less responsibility in terms of the production of polluting emissions. We must then enter into the perspective of a cohesive reaction, based on a rational system, with concrete investments. The path outlined by our motion, the Democratic Party's motion, stems precisely from the adoption of a systemic and multidimensional approach. It is important to consider the social dimension, but also and above all the economic and cultural dimension of the solutions that are proposed. Italy needs to take a leading role, striving to give greater impetus to the ecological transition of solidarity towards a green economy, a culture of protection and respect for the ecosystem. Our motion sets out the basic guidelines for taking this path. Accelerate the energy transition, but above all leverage new technologies and ecological innovations to create a true green economy that invests and transforms all sectors of the economy: industry, agriculture and services. This motion therefore presents itself as the necessary recovery of an environmental regulatory practice. In this respect, legislative action is a human intervention aimed at a perspective of conservation and protection of the environment. We must act according to this important value, a renewed principle of democracy of the earth, to say it also with Vandana Shiva, who involves individuals and institutions in the circuit of care of Creation, through a discipline that knows how to harmonize human work to the need for sustainability, in the awareness that the world we govern belongs not only to ourselves, but to who will come. Precisely for this reason, we have the responsibility to manage and govern the most radical of the changes, to strengthen the presuppositions of a green economy, for a green society, reversing the course and realizing the courage to imagine a different future. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u45	I greet on behalf of the Assembly a delegation of students from the University of Innsbruck, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u46	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u47	Mr President, I am in favour of motion 1-00135 (text 2), tabled by Senator L'Abbate and other senators, and against the remaining motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u48	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u51	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, a few weeks ago here in the Senate, we all applauded Greta Thunberg's words, in which she invited politics, the world of adults, to stop talking and finally move on to action. Unfortunately, Italy is a country where environmental sensitivity has not yet led to a radical change in behaviour. We are thinking of the massive use of pesticides in agriculture, of the fact that in entire territories separate collection is difficult to reach acceptable numbers and it is not possible to close the waste cycle, but also of the weakness of public transport services and the use of all cars. Yet Italy is not free from the negative consequences of climate change. The devastations that affected several regions last autumn brought to their knees entire sectors of the agricultural economy. Beekeepers have long denounced the poor state of health of bees, due to the reduced availability of water, the transformations in blooms and the massive use of pesticides. In the Alps, some species of willows are reaching altitudes they had never known before. The owl and the owl reproduce in advance and even swallows have modified their arrival in countries like Italy and Spain. We are faced with a impoverishment of plant and animal species, an exponential increase in the risks of natural catastrophe, which will follow real forced migrations from the countries of the South to those to the North of the world. Not to mention the deaths of air pollution, 7 million premature deaths and a huge cost of health care. The harmony of nature is being altered and, as scientists explain, if the course is not reversed within a few years, this alteration will become irreversible. For this reason Italy must also play its part with concrete and immediate actions to allow the ecological conversion of the entire economy: more investments for renewable energies and green technologies, more resources to gradually overcome fossil fuels and strengthen the commitment to decarbonisation also through compensation mechanisms to protect competitiveness and social sustainability in the transition phase. In other words, it is necessary to raise awareness among citizens and to have an overall strategy that does not endanger the production system, but accompanies it in a modernization work. The environmental issue is the great issue of the years to come; if Italy wants to say its own at European and global level, it must first of all show itself as a virtuous country. That is why we call for a plan to be drawn up immediately with concrete and immediate action, with a timetable of objectives to be achieved over time. There is not much more to wait for, we have a duty to move from words to deeds. We therefore vote in favour of motion No 85, first signed by Senator Ferrazzi. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u54	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, when I presented motion No 122 at my first signature, I had tried, perhaps softly, to make an appeal not to hold a ritual debate, but to take decisions that could also indicate in the motions the way to stop wasting more time. However, obviously, the slogan that all the young people thankfully remind us, the one that says there is no more time, has not arrived in this House and perhaps also by the majority, considering the opinions expressed. I am referring here to that strong call which, I repeat, is aimed at assuming responsibility. Mr President, it is very clear what we have before us and I do not say it because we just want to be catastrophists, as many people accuse us. In fact, I come back to ask what else we have to wait for. The scientific data are very clear, as well as what we live in everyday life: now even in the perception of citizens it is clear that we are faced with climate changes that are not only profoundly changing the ecosystem, but have immediate effects on our lives, on our lives. I'm going back to saying we're 11 years old. These are the data that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and all scientific communities give us to change course quickly. This means not only changing mindsets, but taking responsibility for a real Copernican revolution; it means having the courage and foresight to put our hands first and foremost on overcoming quickly and taking immediate decisions about our dependence on fossil fuels. I ask you once again here - a part of the majority motion has now been amended - whether, stressing the need to contain increases and system charges, you realize what our method is: no one sees subsidies for fossil fuels, but the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the public sea the list, instead the incentives for renewable sources you have billed them. This is also significant. First of all, it was necessary to put an end to this, to remove those subsidies and to ensure that on general taxation, which has to change because environmental taxation has to be introduced, there are the burdens for the energy transition. You have to push on this. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] Do we want to understand or not that we can no longer waste time? Do we want to understand or not that we need a real revolution? The ecosystem is completely altered. We, as a human species, and human activities are the first cause, despite what the denialists at Trump continue to assert. Human activities, our production model, our production system has created a situation that risks being almost without return. In recent years, 83 percent of animal and plant species have disappeared in recent decades. We live within natural cycles, we are not a separate thing. The human species can continue to live only within a harmonic system, within the biodiversity that allows us to survive. The planet saves itself because the planet survives without us. It is life on this planet that risks dying. We must invest in this revolution, in the energy transition, in a model that finally changes and radically reduces emissions. We must invest, even in our country, in the mitigation plan, which means investing in agriculture, changing the way we produce in agriculture, means investing in breeding systems, means investing in a green new deal. You talk about unlocking yards, but we should know how many jobs could be created if we invested in the restoration of the territory, in preserving the water resource and everything that has made our landscape great and beautiful, in conservation and conservation. This was our unlocking to do an operation that we can no longer postpone. Instead, once again, it is the issue as if it were ordinary, but this is no longer the way to move forward. It's not an ordinary matter. It is necessary, I repeat, to assume responsibility for drawing up a precise plan. On the other hand, in the majority motion it is all sweetened. For nine months we have been discussing in the Environment and Agriculture Commissions a bill to zero soil consumption, to reduce soil consumption and in the majority motion we find responsible land use. This is to show you how inadequate the majority's response to the questions posed is. Why did we ask for the state of emergency to be declared? A country like Great Britain has done so - a motion has been passed - because we are in emergency. Make extraordinary commissioners for all works and you do not realize that you have to declare the state of climate and environmental emergency. Do the extraordinary commissioners for the works and do not assume the responsibility to make sure that all the energies of the Government and the institutions are used to deal with this emergency and therefore take action to intervene quickly. A lot of things can definitely be done. It is necessary to change the production model, the consumption models, the mobility model. It is no longer the time of just general sustainability. Are we gonna put it in our head or not? We need a radical change and for this reason we have also tabled a motion which supports a simple thing. We're in emergency and we need to declare the state of emergency. Mr President, I know that you are very sensitive to this issue. As I said in the explanation of the motion, many people have been deluded all this time that climate change and global warming may have impacted on the Maldives, which would have been submerged, or on the small islands; instead, they impact directly on the cradle of civilization, heavily and more directly on the Mediterranean, with everything it entails: the increase, for example, of environmental refugees, who continue not to be appointed. Climate change has a strong impact on our country. What, in the Mediterranean, is the country that will have the greatest impact? The temperature increase recorded in the Mediterranean area, of 1.58 above the planetary average, means that we are the country most at risk, even as we enter within this area; we are the most exposed, considering the extent of our coasts. All the more so, I believe that it is absolutely necessary not only to become aware of the phenomenon, as everyone pretends to do, but also to take the relevant decisions, to proclaim the state of emergency and to do at least one act: we cut subsidies to fossils, to show that we are serious, to emancipate ourselves definitively and move towards an economy that is not dependent on fossil fuels. For all these reasons, we will vote in favour of our motion and the motion before Senator Ferrazzi. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u57	NASTERS (FdI). Mr President, although the Brothers of Italy Group has not tabled its own motion, it is fully aware of the serious problem posed by climate change of anthropogenic origin. Many things have been said and written in the motions under consideration today. The principles set out are certainly acceptable and, moreover, the scientific data are now largely acceptable. Many international protocols have been signed in recent years for the containment of climate emissions, but from the point of view of the Fratelli d'Italia Group it is now important to put a firm point, with a declaration of principle setting the priorities for a path of sustainable reduction of emissions. In this process, it is very important to emphasise the issue of sovereignty. All too often, downward international agreements bind their hands to our nation, Italy, which from the point of view of energy efficiency and production processes is definitely the leader in Europe. It should be noted that the European rules, which must necessarily mediate between the most virtuous nations and the nations which instead base their electricity generation on fossil sources, can only depress the initiatives of the most virtuous nations, as in this case Italy. Considering this, the Brothers of Italy Group, conscious of combining environment and development, will vote in favour of the motion at the first signature of Senator Gallone, will abstain on the motion presented by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators as well as on the one at the first signature of Senator L'Abbate and will vote against the motion at the first signature of Senator De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u60	FADELI (PD). Mr President, I find it curious to hear what I heard a few minutes ago in this House. Firstly, I believe that there is a point of seriousness of a country that has participated in the construction of the UN 2030 Agenda and signed it in September 2015 with a cross-cutting contribution. We have also participated - I insist, as a country, as a Parliament and as a Government - actively in the definition of COP21 in Paris. The reliability, seriousness and authority of a country are also exactly this: knowing that when you make commitments at European and international level you have to know how to carry them forward. In particular, on the issue of climate, I would like to ask, banally, if there is anyone who can think that the climate can be closed within national borders. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I believe that this is impractical as a vision, as a reasoning and as a expectation. There is a fact of logic, yes, but there is also another fact, which is the way in which we participated, with seriousness and commitment and with the necessary mediations, to build those agendas. The second reflection of this nature, from which I want to start, is that having participated and signed those commitments, a relationship has long opened in our country with all the actors of the economy, institutional entities, enterprise, work, services, training and public education. We have therefore opened up a reflection and made a commitment. In our economy - I remember that ours is the second European manufacture and therefore an important reality - we have been asked for commitment to policy, to act and to address the issue of investment on the transition. As our motion rightly states, in fact, we must deal with this transition, assume the responsibility to calibrate investments in order to govern this change, which is cross-cutting to all sectors of the real economy and services, that is to say, what we so much declare overall and qualitatively as our own made in Italy. The request also comes from there. Thirdly, we have an extra responsibility. I don't know how you two relate when you're in here and when you're out and talking to your kids, your kids and your grandchildren, the girls and the guys who went to the streets. They told us something important, in addition to the merit: they told us that they are too young and are not sitting in political and institutional fora to decide in first person today what needs to be done. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Beware that this is a fundamental intergenerational commitment. They are girls and boys from all over the world, they are Italian girls and boys who have had an extraordinary ability to connect, vision and commitment. I am very sorry - I tell you frankly, Undersecretary - that the Government has indicated that it is voting against the motion and the motions that speak of taking the declaration of state of climate-environmental emergency as other countries are already doing. This is very sorry and it is a mistake, from our point of view, strategic and political, because if we declare this emergency, it means that we take on a real commitment to convert, change and govern this transition. If we do not take on this commitment, the rest is chat, it is exactly the same as writing nothing, the void. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It means that we write even less than we have voted and signed in the seats of our representative. I really think of it as an enormous political gravity. I ask you to reconsider. I tell you this: a large part of us, starting with me, came to this House this morning to discuss this and the other motions absolutely convinced that we could finally work to write today, on World Climate Day, a good policy page for this Government, this Parliament and this Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We were convinced that we would vote together on a motion which, leading to this emergency, would also determine the indications, priorities, economic support at the beginning of the reorganization and ecological conversions. I'm closing on this. Part of our real economy expected that. I think this is another element that is not useful - and I close - to the healthy competitiveness of this country: the only condition for giving jobs, jobs and credible future to Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u63	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, my generation grew up watching Piero Angela on television, who explained the existence of a terrible risk, that of the ozone hole, called by Mr Martelli. The year was 1988 when chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) were banned. What is the situation today? It is estimated that with an annual recovery of 3% the ozone hole could close in 2060, net of the reduction of this progression caused by an increase in emissions from China. We certainly did not achieve this by banning spray canisters. I do not want to be disrespectful of this House, but I am taking this emblematic example to say that putting oneself in a confrontation between negationism and catastrophism, what is happening here again today, is worse than doing nothing. The responsibility that belongs to us as a Parliament, in the face of the emotional waves that cyclically follow on various issues over the decades, is precisely to look at the situation and find sustainable solutions. When it comes to sustainable development, it is a question of trying to reconcile the needs of the present generation with those of the future. It would therefore be easy to give in to this nonsense today, perhaps quoting my colleague Mr Rubbia who, from the top of an academic experience recognized worldwide, disagrees with so many things that have been supported. It might be controversial to say that the rain and the cold have arrived and that the May that we have faced, despite Greta's presence and calls in this branch of Parliament, has certainly been different from that of recent years. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). But the weather is confused with the climate: but what are we talking about? BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). You could play this game, but as a League Group we don't want to lend ourselves and I just make one last call. We cannot, for example, go along with an emotional push that has led the country to give up nuclear energy and, at the same time, to close its eyes on the purchase from France of energy produced by nuclear power stations: more must be done. For this reason, in the motion that we have tabled, rather than focusing on the premises, we wanted to work firmly, side by side, with the Movimento 5 Stars on the disposition part, because we all need concrete facts and not merely declarations of intent. Therefore, in the nine points on which the Government is committed - and I will then begin to conclude - we wanted to offer declarations of principle, but we wanted to do so in such a way that our country does not start a technological-energy suicide to the detriment of the current population. The economy can and must be decarbonised, but it must still be done guaranteeing the security of the country's energy system. We can and must work towards sustainable mobility and we can and must move towards overall sustainability, but it must be done - as indicated, for example, in point 6.a) - by promoting infrastructure development policies and actions aimed at promoting virtuous initiatives of urban and non-urban sustainable mobility. This must be done because otherwise - let me be forced - we could safely proceed to the extinction of mankind, if not to the return to the Stone Age, and certainly we would impact less. My colleague, Fedeli, said that surely human actions and activity affect the planet; there would be no more! But then we have to find a way to guarantee our lifestyle by focusing on technological innovation and research and not looking at a happy decline. With the motion we tabled, we wanted to look in this direction. I conclude by saying that this device falls on World Environment Day but above all after a year of government activity which, in small and large measures, has tried to go in this direction and would suffice to give examples that compete with us. It is true that the climate does not stop at the borders, but we at national level have to look at these. When in the budget maneuver we have identified additional resources for the water network in Basilicata - and we all know what situations it is - we have invested resources on energy efficiency, we have given the municipalities the opportunity to act for the prevention of hydrogeological failure, we have acted and chosen to allocate resources in this direction. This is our responsibility: not simply declarations of principle but subsequent and responsible actions by subjects who must govern the country. We have done the same with the unblocking measure, which we shall be voting in a few hours' time, within which there have been courageous choices, the result of debate and confrontation. After a year a reasonable and shared solution was found by the League and Movimento 5 Star Groups on the end of waste problem. You know very well what the situation was regarding the blocking of plant authorisations; well, for the first time, after a comparison of a year, we have given an answer on this too. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In fact, it is not simply up to us to point out problems but to find concrete, practicable and immediate solutions because the great principles are pursued by small actions. This is what we have to do; this is what we are doing and for this reason the Lega Group will vote in favour of its motion, which indicates a concrete path, and against the others that make an ideological battle only an opportunity for confrontation, without giving concrete solutions for our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Croatti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u64	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the University of Teramo from the degree course in biotechnology of reproduction, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u67	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the traditional economy did not take into account, considering them unlimited, the cost of some essential materials: air, water, soil and land, elements from which we draw everything we need, or rather everything we need to live. Growing up and progressing over time we had to realize that the earth is not a boundless prairie but is perhaps more like a spaceship, launched into space with a crew of 7 billion people who must learn to preserve what is there, to defend the only environment of life and to recycle everything they can. In fact, if the supplies were finished, no one could send us a rescue shuttle. On climate change, for intellectual honesty, it is necessary to clarify the premise, precisely because we grew up with "Superquark": man has certainly helped to speed up a climate process, but it certainly derives also from obvious natural elements. The history of the earth tells us this: eras of desertification have always succeeded in ice age. This does not mean that in our day too often there is a lack of environmental respect, that there are not yet complete knowledge of the problem and awareness, that must be generated using every possible tool from those who govern and administer, with laws and regulations targeted and with support to every virtuous activity realized by the agencies and associations operating at every level to stop a process that seems unstoppable. As every year, today, June 5, is celebrated the World Environment Day promoted by the General Assembly of the United Nations, which this year dedicates the edition precisely to the issues of air pollution and the climate crisis. The slogan is beat air pollution: to defeat air pollution. The focus is on actions, even individual ones, to foster a community response and engage governments in the fight to save the planet. The official events will be hosted by China, a country with a very high rate of air pollution, but which begins to be - hopefully all - also a laboratory of initiatives for a green conversion. Which we hope because most of the problems arise precisely in Asia and, without criteria of reciprocity of the rules, also the processes of exchange and commercial collaboration would become problematic (the famous opening to the Silk Road). I am pleased that the House is also celebrating an issue that is becoming increasingly at the heart of the world debate, because it is precisely from the decision-makers and the legislator that every action of support and environmental respect must start (becoming Parliament as the first active and example, continuous stimulus for the action of those who govern), above all starting from forms of support and educational actions, passing through incentives in every form and measure for virtuous enterprises and in particular the application of every possible form of bureaucratic simplification, up to bilateral agreements. I was struck by what Susanna Tamaro wrote a few days ago about Sunday's Corriere, denouncing the bureaucratic interference that drives those who want to deal with this issue, for example, in agriculture. We will then draw inspiration from future policy actions because actions, the climate crisis, environmental protection and subsequent actions are choices that are necessary for human survival, but above all they represent an extraordinary opportunity to create jobs and generate a new sustainable economy. The choice and duty to support the so-called green economy, the green economy, is particularly good for the employment market. Since Forza Italia del lavoro does its battle, it will also fight on the green economy aimed at the employment market. In Italy there are already two million green jobs, of green jobs, which represent about 13% of the total national employment. I have chosen to be part of the Environment Commission because of the deep conviction that it has always, more than ever before, started from here, from nature and its elements. The Environment Commission, which was a little overwhelmed and undervalued at the time, should now become a pivot Commission around which everything should turn: economic and labour issues, health, tourism, agriculture, infrastructure, housing, growth and sustainable development, through education, education and culture. The figure of Greta Thunberg has aroused clamor and reactions worldwide, because it has touched above all the sensitivity of the younger ones. I, however, who are less young, found myself in front of a sort of déjà vu. Almost thirty years ago, in fact, on the occasion of the Earth Summit, held in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, another girl had already catalysed the attention of politics and the media; she was only twelve years old and went on stage as a representative of a delegation of boys who fought for the environment. His name was Severn Cullis - Suzuki, but most remember her as the little girl who silenced the world for six minutes, giving an incredible speech in front of the United Nations, in which he claimed, for his and future generations, the inalienable right to life. He emphasized, among other things, the dramatic effects of human action on the environment and climate change. Did it really take two young girls, thirty years later, to engage in a process of awareness on environmental and climate issues worldwide? Do we adult decision makers, in possession of all the tools to promote a change in the tendency to preserve natural resources, not succeed in putting in place a coordinated and synergistic action? This House is proof of this today, with a series of motions of which only one was adopted and the others were not considered. Today I would have expected everyone in this House to look in the same direction. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] in this House It is not a personal or party problem, but it is a problem for everyone, for every single citizen and, above all, it is a problem for our children. As I have already said, since it sometimes takes concreteness to stimulate action, I repeat that environmental protection issues represent new economic opportunities from the point of view of employment, the development of clean technologies and innovation. The climate challenge, as a constraint, must be transformed into opportunities for economic growth, promoting a new economically sustainable development. This is why reversing the trend is important, for example by paying attention to a new environmental tax, as an imperative for future economic policies. Only in this way can Italy fully fit into the European process, moving taxation from work to pollution of production processes and products, after and during their use. The change must start urgently and encourage tax systems that benefit the use of renewable and sustainable environmental resources, and in this perspective Italy can play a leading role, including at European level. Attention: accelerating the transition does not mean slowing down the infrastructural and technological process, as many would like, but rather a dynamic commitment, aimed at conceiving investments in large works, such as the high-speed train, the modernization of the railway network, new state-of-the-art transport systems (more competitive, efficient and cost-effective, from the point of view of the environmental impact, of the road transport, especially with regard to the goods). We come to the issue of waste, another very important issue for the environment and the climate. Italy is the European country with the highest percentage of recycling on all waste (urban, industrial and mining) and this also thanks to innovative methods of waste management and advanced systems for their recovery. Dear colleague Briziarelli, I hope that today we will finally be able to bring home a result for which Forza Italia is fighting from the first day of this legislature, through an amendment presented during the examination of every useful measure, the one on the end of waste, that is the end of the qualification of refusal. I'm going to conclude. In order to honour World Environment Day, as I said earlier, I would have liked to announce the vote in favour of all motions, but in the light of the statements of the representative of the Government, who invites only the majority to vote, we will vote in favour of our proposal alone and simply abstain on others, only for a matter of dignity and not for other reasons, because we firmly believe in it. I would ask the President for just one minute, to conclude with the words of that little girl almost thirty years ago - not Greta's - that the powerful should be moved. She said: At school, even in kindergarten, you teach us how to behave in the world. You teach us not to argue with others, to solve problems, to respect others, to fix all the disorder we do, to not hurt other creatures, to share things, to be generous. Then why do you do those things you tell us not to do? (...) I know we're all part of a family that has 5 billion people, it's actually a family that has 30 million species. And no government, no border can change this reality. We are your children, you are deciding in what world and how we will have to grow up. (...) Are we really on the list of your priorities? (...) You keep saying that you love us, but I am challenging you: please, let your actions reflect your words! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u70	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the contrast to the dramatic consequences of climate change requires strong and incisive action, which takes into account in a holistic way all the actions that can be implemented in order to have an effective impact on the prevention and gradual cancellation of all those emissive sources, which are literally stifling our planet. It is time to act and act quickly, because what we have called development in the last two centuries has irreparably undermined the natural balances of the previous millennia and threatens today the hopes of the new generations and those who will come after them. Climate change is already in place, it is nature that rebels, it is a chain phenomenon that affects all the regions of the world, whose catastrophic consequences caused by extreme weather phenomena are bringing to its knees vast areas of the world and reaping victims among the populations, including Italy. We know that we need a choral and global commitment because the commitment of a single nation is not enough. In fact, even when it seems that all states and all communities around the world agree to adopt policies to combat climate change, there are rumors of distinction, distanced, sometimes genuine rethinking and denials on the one hand and on the other of the oceans. As long as it is a matter of stating good intentions, perhaps to be advertised on electoral occasions or agitated in the presence of an opponent, everyone can find words and images capable of fascinating and even convincing. In so doing, one can also attribute a Nobel to the IPCC scientists, admire Greta's tenacity, convene a solemn world conference a year or ask for the state of environmental and climate emergency in the country, as done by the UK and recently fumigated in our home by the Democratic Party and also by Senator De Petris in their motions (which only serves to leverage mediatically). 11:52 a.m. (Moronese follow-up). From speeches to actions, from words to actions. We want to avoid seeing that carnival of contradictions that, in essence, serves to keep things as they are. The planetary question is still of supremacy, domination and division of roles between North and South of the planet, between East and West, between mature economies up to opulence and increasingly aggressive emerging economies. The confrontation of the moment, that on duties, is nothing more than a chapter of the same comedy and in too many respects also the policies of safeguarding the global environment are played and exchanged on the same table of a game that, sometimes, tastes to be spotlessly rigged. China, the world's first economic power, does not believe that it must commit itself to saving fossil fuels, reducing emissions into the atmosphere and correcting its development model to be redirected in a more respectful sense to natural balances. Yet, that economy, together with that of the European continent, is the most responsible for the climatic changes of the last two centuries. If the model of success - the one that established the primacy of the West and guaranteed well-being to almost a billion people - continues to be the one that broke the natural balances, depleted and squandered the primary resources, polluted, deserted and anthropized increasing portions of land, how will it be possible to deny the same benefits to those peoples of the developing economies, which that same model adopted and want to pursue? They will certainly not be solemn environmentalist paternals to dissuade those peoples from seeking their own well-being. Life on the planet - globalization or not - is irreparably interdependent. It will not be the Hungarian wall that will prevent acid rain from falling on Budapest and it will not be the Mexican wall that will prevent the rising oceans on the American coasts. Just as the West has baptized and nourished that old model of development, of which we now live all the harmful consequences, it is now up to the same to inaugurate a new beginning, to create confidence in a different development and to offer the hope of well-being on a planet that will have a future for humanity and all living species. The Kyoto Protocol, the father of all the agreements for the protection of the planetary ecosystem, is almost thirty years old. It just doesn't seem to have succeeded in intent, if we look at the current alarms and the state of the planet. However, there is no alternative to an unceasing, daily and determined commitment to persuasion, conviction and accountability. There is no alternative to having to decide, now and here, which measures to take, which actions to trigger, which projects and what strategies to implement. Inertia would be an unforgivable fault. Shortcuts and cunning may override the most approximate consciousness at the moment, but they would soon reveal their fragility. To declare the state of climate emergency, as the United Kingdom has done, postponing to 2050 the achievement of tangible results of mitigation of the devastating effects produced by the production system of that country, looks much like a vicious promise from sailor. It would be very encouraging to learn instead that, for example, the British Government has banned the export of municipal waste for millions of tons and for almost ten years they have been going through the North Sea to be incinerated in all European countries. If the United Kingdom really wanted to be a pioneer in the circular economy, it would really be a great opportunity to demonstrate leadership in the management of its urban waste. I would also like to point out that we Italians are well aware of the state of emergency, especially for the damage that has left us the countless states of emergency proclaimed after earthquakes, floods, fires, droughts and also for waste management. Each of them has left us an account of billions of euros spent in derogation from ordinary laws, with extraordinary measures often oblique and ineffective, with lobbying and cliques that have grazed beautifully on the ruins (in fact remained untouched at the end of the emergency state). This is not the way, this is not the way and this is no longer the time of extraordinaryness: it is the time of stubborn, stubborn and tenacious daily mobilization to really change things in concrete and deep. This is why the motion under discussion today, presented by the Movimento 5 Stars and the entire majority group, formally wants to commit the Government to put in place serious and concrete actions aimed at decarbonising the economy, setting as its objective the strategy for a modern and climate neutral economy, contained in the Communication of the European Commission COM (2018) 773 of 28 November 2018. On decarbonisation yesterday, the Minister for the Environment, Sergio Costa, to whom there is no doubt to be recognized a serious, concrete and incisive action, signed with the European Commission, the Italian Municipalities and Regions the Action Plan for the improvement of air quality, which includes concrete actions in the field of rationalization of environmentally harmful subsidies, reduction of emissions from biomass, city micromobility, limitations for polluting heating systems and diesel oil and much more. All this will be done by involving the territorial authorities and will be invested 400 million euros per year. The municipalities will therefore also have the economic cover to carry out these actions. Mr President, the motion responds firmly and pragmatically to the call of the European Commission, which commits all Member States to a profound economic, energy and social transformation, in order to effectively meet the temperature reduction objectives agreed at the Paris Climate Conference COP21 in December 2015. It also calls on national parliaments to identify the strategic components for achieving the objective of a climate-neutral Europe by 2050. It will not be a motion to improve the quality of our lives tomorrow morning, but it is certain that the one we are debating, anchored in shared objectives in Europe and in international fora, is pressing and promotes in a precise and timely manner the adoption of binding standards and actions, which tomorrow morning could begin to improve the quality of our daily lives. In conclusion, Mr President, perhaps today we entrust one of the hardest tasks of the legislature to this Government, which we are sure will want to respect, because this is not about partisan political issues but about the life of our children and the future of the next generations. I therefore declare on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars the vote in favour of our motion at first signature L'Abbate and against all others. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u72	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u73	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the majority motion, which I do not agree with, I would just like to announce my abstention vote on all the others: in each of them I find some positive and acceptable elements and other desires, not to mention ambiguous ones. That is why, apart from the majority motion, I shall abstain on the others. I think that this debate lacked the European dimension to address this problem, which has no adequate solution at national level, but I also think that we should not go after the fashions of the moment. You see, I say this without controversy, friends, but committing the government to declare the state of environmental and climate emergency has clear consequences in our institutional and legislative system, which I do not agree with. I understand that you see it as a political statement, but what someone has pointed out to us is that words weigh. I know that Macron has approved it and who else you want; but I believe that we should see an emergency and call for the application of all the Italian and European policies that can cope with it. Just making a statement of emergency state I find it ambiguous and eager. Without controversy, this is the opinion I feel I have to express. For the rest, I hope this is the beginning of a serious debate on this issue, which cannot be resolved in a cacophony of motions: if you just read it, you will understand that we will not go anywhere frankly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u74	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 85 (text 3), tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 97 tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 122, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 135 (text 2), tabled by Senator L'Abbate and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u75	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. The Presidency declares that amendments 1.0.3, 1.0.4, 1.0.9, 1.0.10, 2.0.2, 4.24, 4.201 (already 20.0.1 text 2), 5.27, 5.0.25, 5.0.26, 5.0.27, 5.0.28, 5.0.29, 5.0.30, 5.0.31, 5.0.41, 5.0.42, 5.0.43, 5.0.44, 5.0.45, 5.0.46, 5.0.47, 5.0.48, 5.0.49, 5.0.50, 5.0.51, 5.0.52, 5.0.54, 5.0.55, 5.0.13, 21.0.14, 21.0.14, 21.0.15, 21.0.16, 21.0.9, 24.0.5, 28.10, 28.11, 28.13, 28.14, 28.100 and 28.200, already declared inadmissible during the examination referred to by reason of the subject of the decree-law. The Presidency also states that amendments 1,693, 5.4 (limited to paragraph 5-duodecies) and 28.2 which amend provisions contained in legislative acts which do not have the force of law, as well as proposal 1,240, which is, on the other hand, unmodified. With regard to the sub-amendments submitted, the Presidency finally declared the proposals 1.7 (text 2/423, 1.17 (correct text)/100, 1.17 (correct text)/101, 1.750/100, 1.750/102, 1.851/108, 4.43/101, 4.851/101, 4.851/103, 4.853/101, 4.853/102, 4.853/103, 4.853/104, 4.853/105, 5.0.851/100, 16.850/100, 19.0.1 (text 3)/101, 23.750/100, 23.750/101, 23.750/102, 23.750/103, 24.0.851/100, 24.08851/101, 24.0.851/102 and 25.500/100, as they do not affect the text of the amendment to which they refer or introduce foreign provisions on the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u76	Mr President, if I may, I would just say that I wish to give a favourable opinion on the amendments. I am therefore in favour of amendment 1.7 (text 2/161 (text 2), with the following corrections: in point 2 of point (o), after the word 'next', insert the words 'on the date of entry into force', expunge point 23 (letter a) and (b) and in point 24-b, after the words 'offers' are inserted, insert the words 'the estimates'. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Is this indication yours or the Budget Commission? Mr Santillo, rapporteur. It is on my own initiative, as rapporteur. I also welcome amendment 1.7 (text 2)/462 and amendment 1.7 (text 2)/463, only paragraph 20-b, last sentence of paragraph 11-b, from the words "I am also included in the words "n." 122....................................................................................................................... PRESIDENT. - The debate is Therefore, it is only in favour of paragraph 20-b, paragraph 11-b, from the words "I am also registered" to the words "n.122." Mr Santillo, rapporteur. Yes, Mr President, in Part 20-b I am only in favour of this last period of paragraph 11-b. I am therefore in favour of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/464, with the addition, finally, of the following paragraph, of which I should like to read and which I can, if necessary, deliver: ==References====External links== For the execution of the works for the construction, the completion, the adaptation and the restructuring of the centers referred to in article 14, paragraph 1, of the legislative decree 25 July 1998, n. 286, is still as provided by article 2, paragraph 2, of the decree-law 4 October 2018, n. 113, converted with amendments by law 1 December 2018, n. 132. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you can deliver the text, Senator, we'll distribute it. Mr Santillo, rapporteur. Of course, ma'am. With regard to the remaining amendments, I call on the authors to withdraw them; otherwise, the opinion is against them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator, is the opinion also against amendment 1.7 (text 2)? Mr Santillo, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I am talking about amendment 1.7 (text 2), tabled by Senator Pergreffi. Mr Santillo, rapporteur. I am in favour of the amendment. [[Comments from Groppo Misto-LEU]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u77	I would now ask you to indicate expressly the amendments to which you are calling for withdrawal, because you must tell us, not only those against which you are opposed, but also those against which there is a call for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u78	Mr Santillo, rapporteur. The call for withdrawal is on all amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Therefore, the call for withdrawal concerns all the amendments; otherwise, the opinion is against them. Is that it? Mr Santillo, rapporteur. Exactly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u79	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u80	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Sudan, identical to Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/101, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2/102, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, until the words "maintenance" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.7 (text 2/103 to 1.7 (text 2/106) are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/108, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/111, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, until the words "performances to be provided." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.7 (text 2/109 and 1.7 (text 2/110) are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/112, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, up to the words "landscape" and "landscape." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.7 (text 2/113 and 1.7 (text 2/114) are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/115, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, until the words "demanio" are spoken. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 (text 2/116) are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/117, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, until the words "are deleted." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 (text 2/118) are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/119, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/121, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/122, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, until the words "are deleted." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 (text 2/123) are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/124, tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/125, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/126, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/127, tabled by Senators Margiotta and Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/128, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/129, tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/130, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, up to the words "in Article 35". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 (text 2/131) are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/132, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, until the words "of the performance" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 (text 2)/133 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/134, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/135, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/136, tabled by Senators Margiotta and Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/137, tabled by Senators D'Alfonso and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/138, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/139, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "commi" from 1 to 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.7 (text 2/140 and 1.7 (text 2)/141 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/142, tabled by Senator Coltorti. (The vote was taken at the next voting time.) [[Senator Coltorti suggests he wants to intervene]] I shall cancel the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u83	COLTORTI (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw amendment 1.7 (text 2)/142. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/143, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/144, tabled by Senators Mallegni and Gallone, up to the words "with the following words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.7 (text 2)/145 and 1.7 (text 2)/146 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.7 (text 2)/147, tabled by Senator Sudan, essentially identical to amendment 1.7 (text 2)/148, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/149, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators, identical to amendments 1.7 (text 2)/150, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, and 1.7 (text 2)/151, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/152, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators, identical to amendments 1.7 (text 2)/153, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, and 1.7 (text 2)/154, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/155, tabled by Senators Mallegni and Gallone, identical to amendments 1.7 (text 2)/156, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other Senators, 1.7 (text 2)/157, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, and 1.7 (text 2)/158, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u86	MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, we are at a time when the communication prevails over the truth, sometimes also leading to errors and incidents, such as those we witnessed earlier, when we unanimously rejected the amendment by Senator Coltorti, which had to be withdrawn, but was not in the right time, or at a moment of confusion by the good rapporteur on an opinion on text 2 of Amendment 1.7 by Senator Pergreffi, because the communication gave way to the idea that the amendment by Senator Pergreffi suspended the procurement code. That wasn't true. He suspended five aspects of the procurement code. Even in the case of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 2) it is said that it suspends the procurement code, whereas it is not true, because it suspends only three of the five aspects; moreover, it suspends them by returning to the text of the original decree and the two which are theoretically suspended are rewritten exactly as they were in the original text of the decree. In short, so much noise for nothing; it happened only that we returned to the starting point, there is no suspension and we continue to work in an absolutely normal way, except that everyone will sell the matter as he wants in the communication. The League will say that they have suspended the code and that is not true; the Movimento 5 Stars will say that it is not true that they have suspended it, that they have kept the point and, as I will explain, that is not true either. The amendment we are talking about, which is certainly better than that of Senator Pergreffi, continues to contain some aberrant forecasts. The three points in which it affects are the following: no reduction and no qualification of the number of contracting stations, no appeal for the Selection Committees to external commissioners selected by the DAC (each one can appoint whom he wants) and, above all, the total restoration of the integrated contract, for which Senator Cioffi looks at me perplexed, but of which I will speak during the examination of the next amendment. I now want to talk about the first two issues: one has the illusion that the code has blocked the works, but the numbers say that it is not true, so much so that the Economic and Social Research Centre of the Building Market (Cresme) claims that last year more jobs were contracted than in the past. What is true is that the most important thing, the most serious vulnus in the sector, is that of the qualification and reduction of contracting stations. Invitalia, which is a good contracting station, did 221 races in force code, with only 7 percent of appeals and litigation. Anas and RFI continued to race and contract jobs. It is the lack of quality and qualification of small contracting stations that blocks the system, and what do you do? It even abhors the mandatory use of purchasing power stations, returning to virtually 35,000 procurement stations in the country. But this is not enough for you, do something else, this yes, aberrant: you think that the jury can be cooked at home. In other words, a mayor or sole head of the procedure (RUP) can choose exactly the commissioners he wants, he does not have the obligation to resort to the DAC's register, nor to ask for the requirements of professionalism and morality, but he can choose who he wants: his brother, his cousin, his sister's boyfriend or something like that. The combined arrangement of the increase of the contracting stations and the possibility to choose the Selection Committees as it is intended to determine those that authoritative protagonists of the field have defined criminal norms. Don't be offended, but that's what it's about. You don't understand who benefits, but this is what you do with your amending proposal: go back to a system that will cause so many problems in the country. I will talk about the other negative aspects when we discuss Senator Pergreffi's amendment 1.7 (text2). [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u89	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I do not know whether we are faced with a game of the parties, an art comedy or the dramatization of statements, which announce one thing and then another. It is in fact, Mr President, that the amendment under consideration, at the first signature of Senator Patuanelli, makes some changes to the text that came out of the Commission, in particular remains 30% with regard to the evaluation of the most economically advantageous offer, but basically so much thunder, that it did not rain: in the end, somehow, we have returned to that, but the declarations of suspension of the code and everything else remain. Obviously this does not mean that we are giving a positive assessment; indeed, all the absolutely and fiercely critical issues remain, which we have expressed in relation to the text that came out of the Commission. It is certainly different from the amendment by Senator Pergreffi, who proposed the total liberalization of subcontracting (perhaps Salvini, when he talks about respect for the European directive, speaks only and only about the case of the procedure). In fact, however, the text under consideration returns to a sort of 40% mediation, which we still consider absolutely serious, because the aspect of subcontracting, as well as the fact that we no longer draw on external commissioners and the fact that we return to the multiplication of contracting stations, without any work on qualification, will ensure that, in our system, these rules risk being criminal: I call them for what they are. It's no use for you to keep pretending nothing. All these rules will make the entire procurement system permeable to very heavy infiltrations. Do not tell me that the measure will unlock the yards; we will talk about it in some time, when we will find ourselves - once again - in a situation of total blockade. There is another serious element, already contained in Senator Pergreffi's amendment. The amendment signed by Senator Patuanelli also rewrites paragraph 24 on waste. Honestly this rule has improved compared to paragraph 24, but - I say this to Senator Patuanelli - there is one thing you have to explain to me. First of all, you should have ensured, once and for all, that the Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea adopt the ministerial decrees and, above all, to make a serious operation, you should have provided not only that all the authorizations issued by the various authorities and the Regions should be sent to the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, but also that the latter can intervene and correct in order to ensure that in our country there is a homogeneous application of the rules on waste and not linked to the different regions and authorities that issue the authorizations. Having said that, of course, our vote can only be against this other major amendment. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u90	Senator Patuanelli, do you support the corrections requested by the rapporteur? Patuanelli (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. President: Senator Romeo, do you agree with the corrections requested by the rapporteur? ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3) tabled by Senators Patuanelli and Romeo. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.7 (text 2)/159 to 1.7 (text 2)167 are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3). Amendment 1.7 (text 2)/168 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/169, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u93	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, during the previous vote, I was wrong to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u94	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2/170), tabled by Senator Sudan, up to the words "Enter the Minutes." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 (text 2/171) are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2/172, tabled by Senator Sudan, until the words "31 December 2019." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 (text 2/173) are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2/174, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "with the following words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.7 (text 2/175 and 1.7 (text 2/176) are therefore excluded. Amendments 1.7 (text 2)/177 to 1.7 (text 2)/213 are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/214, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/215, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi, identical to amendment 1.7 (text 2/503, tabled by Senator Steger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/216, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2/217, tabled by Senators Margiotta and Ferrazzi, until the words "can proceed." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.7 (text 2/218 to 1.7 (text 2/220) are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/221, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/222, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.7 (text 2/223 to 1.7 (text 2/232) are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/233), tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/234), tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/235), tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/236), tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.7 (text 2/237 to 1.7 (text 2/239) are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/240, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/241, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2/242, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, until the words "are deleted." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 (text 2/243) are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/244, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.7 (text 2/245 and 1.7 (text 2/246) are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/247, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments to 1.7 (text 2/248 to 1.7 (text 2/252) are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2/253, tabled by Senator Margiotta, until the words "are deleted." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.7 (text 2/254 and 1.7 (text 2/255) are therefore excluded. Amendments 1.7 (text 2/256 to 1.7 (text 2/259) are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/260, tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.7 (text 2/261 to 1.7 (text 2/263) are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/264, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/265, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2/266, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, until the words "competition procedure" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 (text 2/267) are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/268, tabled by Senators Margiotta and Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.7 (text 2/269 to 1.7 (text 2/272) are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3). Amendment 1.7 (text 2/273) has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/274), tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/275), tabled by Senators Mallegni and Gallone, identical to amendment 1.7 (text 2/276), tabled by Senator Margiotta and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2/277), tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, until the words "release" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 (text 2/278) are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/279), tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/280), tabled by Senators Taricco and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.7 (text 2)/281 and 1.7 (text 2)/282 are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/283, tabled by Senators Margiotta and Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/284, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2/285, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, until the words "of the contract" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 (text 2/286) are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/287, tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/288, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 1.7 (text 2)/289, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/290, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/291, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.7 (text 2/292 to 1.7 (text 2/296) are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2/297, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, up to the words "letter d) ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 (text 2/298) are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2/299, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, up to the words "offers". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 (text 2/300) are therefore excluded. Amendments 1.7 (text 2/301 to 1.7 (text 2/322) are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2/161) (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/323, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/324, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/325, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/326, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/327, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/328, tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/329, tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/330, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, up to the words "sub-contracting." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and the amendments from 1.7 (text 2/331 to 1.7 (text 2/333) are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/334, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, up to the words "Article 80". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 (text 2)/335 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/336 tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, until the words "is repealed"). (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 (text 2)/337 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/338, tabled by Senators Margiotta and Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/339, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/340, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/341, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/342, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/343, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/344, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/345, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/346, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/347, tabled by Senators Margiotta and Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/348, tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/349, tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.7 (text 2)/350 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/351, tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.7(text 2)/352 and 1.7(text 2)/353 are foreclosed by the adoption of amendment 1.7(text 2)/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/354, tabled by Senators Margiotta and Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/355, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/356, tabled by Senator Mirabelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/357, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/358, tabled by Senators Margiotta and Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/359, tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/360, tabled by Senators Margiotta and Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/361, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 1.7 (text 2/362, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/363, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/364, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/365, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/366, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/367, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/368, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators, identical to amendments 1.7 (text 2)/369, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, and 1.7 (text 2)/370, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/371, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/372, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/373, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.7 (text 2)/374 to 1.7 (text 2)/382 are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/383, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/384, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/385, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/386, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.7 (text 2)/387 and 1.7 (text 2)/388 are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2/389, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, until the words "sixty days" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.7 (text 2/390 and 1.7 (text 2/391) are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/392), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2/393, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Sudan, until the words "sixty days" (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 (text 2/394) are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2/395), tabled by Senator Sudan, until the following words are added: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 1.7 (text 2/396 to 1.7 (text 2/398) are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/399, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/400), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/401, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/402, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/403, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/404, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1.7 (text 2)/405, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/406, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/407, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/408, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1.7 (text 2)/409, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/410), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/411), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 1.7 (text 2/412), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/413) tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/414) tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/415), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that amendments 1.7 (text 2/416 and 1.7 (text 2/417) are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2/161 (text 3). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/418), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/419), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/420), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/421), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/422), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.7 (text 2/423) is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/424), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/425), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/426), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/427), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/428), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/429), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/430), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/431), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/432), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/433), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/434), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/435), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 1.7 (text 2/436), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/437), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/438), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/439), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.7 (text 2/440 to 1.7 (text 2/444) are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7 (text 2/445), tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators, up to the words "vigilous volunteer fire." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 (text 2/454) are therefore excluded. Amendment 1.7 (text 2/446) is precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/447), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 1.7 (text 2/448), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/449), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/450), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/451), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/452), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/453) tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.7 (text 2/455 to 1.7 (text 2/457) are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/458), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/459), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.7 (text 2)/460 and 1.7 (text 2)/461 are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.7 (text 2)/462.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u97	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to ask for a more careful assessment of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/462 - on which, I recall, the rapporteurs gave a favourable opinion - since, as formulated, it could partially oppose Amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3) tabled by myself and Senator Patuanelli, which we adopted earlier. I am therefore asking for the provision of the amendment or a possible suspension of the work for a possible rewording of the amendment. I leave it to you, Mr President, also in view of the fact that at the Conference of the Leaders it was decided that, at some point, work would be suspended so that the forces of all the senators could be reinvigorated and work continued with a greater pathos, because I see the House a little off. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u98	Colleagues, I suspend the work until 14.30, so as to also allow you to take a lunch break. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 13.33 p.m. and resumed at 14.34 p.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u101	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the rapporteurs should have the text of the reformulation of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/462. I take advantage of this intervention to withdraw amendment 1.7 (text 2)/463.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u104	Mr Santillo, rapporteur. Mr President, I have read the above-mentioned rewording. In amendment 1.7 (text 2)/462, paragraph 20-a is replaced by the following: For the period of existence of the decree-law 18 April 2019, n. 32, are without prejudice to the effects of article 1, paragraph 912, of the law 30 December 2018, n.145, for the municipalities alone that, on the date of entry into force of the same decree-law, have started the process of planning for the realization of the investments referred to in article 1, paragraph 107, of the law n.145 of 2018 and have not yet started the execution of the works. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the rapporteur to hand over the written text so that it can be distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u107	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, I have listened to the rewording of paragraph 20-a and I would like to ask the rapporteur how he combines with paragraph 20-b, as he repeats and incorporates the general part of it. In fact, I ask if it is still worth maintaining paragraph 20-b, since both refer to article 1, paragraph 107, of Law No 145 of 2018 and the condition of not having started the execution of the works. What I'm asking is just an explanation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the rapporteur to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u108	Mr President, paragraph 20-b continues to apply.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u109	In order to better verify the compatibility between paragraph 20-a, as proposed in the rewording, and paragraph 20-b, I think it is preferable to set aside amendment 1.7 (text 2)/462 (text 2). Perhaps Senator Caliendo's assessments could be correct, since paragraph 20-a, as reworded, provides that: For the period of existence of the decree-law 18 April 2019, n. 32, are without prejudice to the effects of article 1, paragraph 912, of the law 30 December 2018, n.145, for the municipalities alone that, on the date of entry into force of the same decree-law, have started the process of planning for the realization of the investments, referred to in article 1, paragraph 107, of the law n.145 of 2018, and have not yet started the execution of the intense activities. In paragraph 20-b it is then written that: For the municipalities only that have started the planning for the realization of the investments, referred to in article 1, paragraph 107, of the law 30 December 2018, n.145, but have not started the execution of the intense I therefore ask what is the difference between these two paragraphs.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u112	Mr Santillo, rapporteur. Mr President, I would ask you to put aside this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u113	I therefore have the provision to carry out a verification. Amendment 1.7 (text 2)/463 has been withdrawn. I would ask Senator Barbaro if he agrees with the proposal for the rewording of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/464, concerning the inclusion of paragraph 20-d.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u114	Mr President, I accept the proposal for a rewording, but since we do not have it, I would kindly ask that the new text be distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u115	The reformulation proposal was put forward this morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u116	BARBARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I accept the proposal for a rewording, but I would kindly ask that the text be distributed, for the benefit of my colleagues. If it doesn't help, it's okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u117	Senator Barbaro, I have read the proposal for a rewording, which proposes to add the following paragraph 20-d: For the execution of the works and for the construction, completion, adaptation and restructuring of the centres referred to in Article 14, paragraph 1, of Legislative Decree No 286 of 25 July 1998, the provisions of Article 2, paragraph 2, of Decree-Law No 113 of 4 October 2018, converted with amendments by Law No 132 of 1 December 2018. BARBARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). All right, and thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u118	I call on the President of the Budget Committee, Senator Pesco, to express his views on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment is of a legal nature and therefore has no financial impact.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u120	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/464 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barbaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/465, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments from 1.7 (text 2/467 to 1.7 (text 2/475) are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2/161) (text 3). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.7 (text 2/476).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u123	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, this is one of the classic amendments that I would like to make in common sense, on which I would like to see a cross-cutting sharing, as it is essentially intended to make life easier for businesses and those civil servants and civil servants working in the procurement field. We know that the administration, in certain situations and with certain suppliers, has the right to suspend the obligation of the security, even with gains in terms of price. With this amendment, we propose that by law it should be established that small or very small securities (i.e. up to EUR 500) are not due. Basically, we would like to prevent the municipalities, the provinces and, in general, the public officials from going crazy in producing securities documents up to 500 euros (i.e. perhaps equal to 100, 200 or 300 euros). I believe that providing that securities up to EUR 500 are not really due is a common sense rule, which meets the needs of both civil servants and those companies which, for ridiculous figures, have absurd administrative costs and burdens. I therefore appeal to all my fellow Members to accept a common sense rule, which involves a slight variation in order to achieve greater simplification.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u124	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/476), tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.7 (text 2/477 and 1.7 (text 2/478) are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/479), tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.7 (text 2/480 to 1.7 (text 2/493) are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/494), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/495), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.7 (text 2/496).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u127	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u128	Amendment 1.7 (text 2)/497 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/498), tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.7 (text 2)/499 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2/500), tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.7 (text 2)/501.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u131	LONARDO (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to this amendment. There is a work, allocated to the value of 48 million euros, which is virtually blocked since the extraordinary commissioner for the completion of the work has not been appointed, and this is the Benevento-Caserta axis. My amendment tends to ensure that this Commissioner is appointed and also indicates the way in which this should be done. It seems to me that this is a very fitting amendment for this decree-law unblocks construction sites. I therefore appeal to the whole Senate, so that it can approve it, to start a very important road for the Campania Region, especially for Benevento, Avellino and Caserta. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u132	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/501, tabled by Senator Lonardo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/502, tabled by Senator Steger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.7 (text 2)/504 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3). Let us move on to Amendment 1.7 (text 2)/462, which was previously put aside, because a question was asked to the rapporteur on compatibility, and I would ask him to answer that question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u133	Mr President, I would ask you to remain on the sidelines, because the appropriate checks are still under way.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u134	We must therefore also put aside amendment 1.7 (text 2). I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda and the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u135	Mr President, I am in favour of all the agendas that have been tabled and I am calling for a withdrawal or otherwise I am against all the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u136	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u137	As the government has accepted the agendas G1.1, G1.2, G1.3 and G1.4 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 1.0.1 is set aside. Let us move on to amendment 1.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.0.3 and 1.0.4 are unacceptable. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.5, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators, identical to amendment 1.0.70, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.6 tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.7 tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.8, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.0.9 and 1.0.10 are unacceptable. Amendment 1.0.11 is set aside. Let us move on to Amendment 1.0.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.12 tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Are we ready to dissolve the reservation on Amendment 1.7 (text 2)/462, Senator Santillo?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u138	Mr President, in order to choose a wording which is as clear as possible, at the end of the wording I have just read, the following words are added: 'for the same municipalities': 'and the whole part of 20-b which is points (a), (b) and (c).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u139	So you have changed paragraph 20-a, adding the words "for the same municipalities": "and you have deleted the first paragraph of paragraph 20-b," adding points (a), (b) and (c) to paragraph 20-a. Paragraph 20-c remains unchanged, but becomes 20-b. Mr Santillo, rapporteur. That's right. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So, I'm gonna try and repeat what I understand, and you're gonna tell me if it matches or if I'm wrong. Paragraph 20-a is replaced by the following: For the period of existence of the decree-law 18 April 2019, n. 32, are without prejudice to the effects of article 1, paragraph 912, of the law 30 December 2018, n. 145, for the municipalities only that, on the date of entry into force of the same decree-law, have started the process of planning for the realization of the investments referred to in article 1, paragraph 107, of the law 30 December 2018, n. 145, and have not yet started the execution of the works. For the same Municipalities: (a) the term referred to in Article 1, paragraph 109, of Law No 145 of 30 December 2018, is deferred to 10 July 2019; (b) the period referred to in Article 1, paragraph 111, first sentence, of Law No 145 of 30 December 2018, shall be deferred until 31 July 2019; (c) the period referred to in Article 1, paragraph 111, last sentence, of Law No 145 of 30 December 2018, shall be deferred until 15 November 2019. Paragraph 20-c becomes 20-b and remains unchanged: The Ministry of the Interior provides, with its own decree, the implementation of the provisions referred to in paragraph 3-a, within the human, instrumental and financial resources available to current legislation and, in any case, without new or higher charges for the budget of the State. I would ask the rapporteur whether this wording is correct.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u140	Yes, Mr President, that is correct.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u141	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/462 (text 2) tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.7 (text 2)/466 is therefore absorbed. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.7 (text 2), which was previously put aside.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u144	MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, this is the amendment that I mentioned earlier about Amendment 1.7 (text 2)/161 (text 3) by Mr Patuanelli. It is the famous amendment 1.7 (text 2), signed by Senator Pergreffi, who, in the communication, has passed as the suspension of the procurement code. It contained a number of rather negative points, some very negative ones, some of which have been amended by Mr Patuanelli and I give him credit for that. I would like to give an example of the most economically advantageous offer, and I would like to re-establish the 30-point ceiling of 100 points in order to win the race. But for me it remains entirely in this amendment, or in what remains of it, because it is a text on which many deletions should be made to understand what we are talking about, the most negative part of Decree-Law No 32 of 2019, that is, the one in which it is decided to suspend the prohibition of the recourse to joint custody of design and execution of the works. In practice the main cornerstone of the code is demolished in a devastating way: the centrality of the design, the thirdness of the designer compared to the enterprise, the quality of the design. These were all things - and that is why I first called on my colleague from the last parliamentary term in my Commission, Senator Cioffi - on which we had worked with the 5 Stars in a completely unanimous way in total harmony in the previous parliamentary term. In fact, to return to the company that does the project, that is to say to the integrated contract on the basis of the final one, means to give life to what we have witnessed (unbelievable variations, appeals and disputes, daily reserves) without any protection of the quality of the design, for the benefit only, not of the enterprises (which do not even want this amendment), but of the companies incorrect, making once again disappear an element on which we were almost all in agreement in the last legislature, punishing the designers, putting them at the mercy of the enterprises. This is the operation you do. Frankly, I am sorry that Mr Toninelli is not here, because I have the feeling that he is missing the scope of the famous letter (b) of the first paragraph of Mrs Pergreffi's amendment. I am convinced that if he had paid some attention he would have agreed with the things I am saying, because it is a rule that will bring us exactly to all the devastating, disastrous negativity that we had tried to erase with the code. It's worse than criminal law. I said this in Italian first and I will say it with the wonderful synthesis of which only the Latins were capable: I really wonder which prodest, why do you make this amendment? The answer, Mr President, is disturbing, whatever it may be. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u147	NENCINI (Misto-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 1.7 (text 2) is a symbol of how a perfect counter-reform is to be carried out. I remember the discussion in the 8th Senate Commission of the past legislature - Senator Margiott recalled it - and I remember that in the old diction provided for in the code, that is, in Legislative Decree no. 50 of 2016, both the League and the Movimento 5 Stars put forth their right reasons to claim that the integrated contract had to be completely revised, indeed it had to be cancelled to restore dignity and centrality to the design. The counter-reform is carried out today and is a demonstration of how one can change his mind without having a foundation for which it can be done. In fact, during these years there has been no evidence of any kind, of any kind, of how the reform has met, compared with the past of the integrated contract, contraindications. I do not know whether the reasons for prehistory are those mentioned by Senator Margiotta; first of all I know that this attempt will not produce any kind of flour, that is, there will be no acceleration in the opening of the yards; secondly, we feed on the contrary all the risks for which in the previous legislature the norm was changed. There were essentially two reasons why transparency in the field of large-scale infrastructure and public works fell: the first concerns the maximum decrease, which was recovered with exotic variations. A study of the time recalled that 82 percent of the cases (so in almost all cases) were recovered with variations corresponding exactly to the fall that was put on the field and the fall reappeared. The other reason for very little transparency was linked to the integrated contract. I have concluded, Mr President, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank you publicly for the fact that the data I am now quoting have been taken literally, thanks also to the fact that you, for your part, have interpreted your role correctly. That is why I thank you publicly. The possibility of speeding up the work is due, yes, to the rules, but the amendment of the rules had to be upstream in a series of procedures that generate an excess of obstacles that complicate the execution and the opening of the yard. There is another conclusive factor: the funds that are available. We discover, almost by chance, that 203 works in charge of ANAS are postponed by two or three years on average for a total of 16 billion and 200 million euros. Therefore, you approve of a decree unblockingantieri and, at the same time, postpone of two years the opening of yards for 16 billion value. Perhaps it would be better to tell the House what the truth is, because the two issues together do not take place. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u150	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, for a moment, for one day we believed, dear friends of the League, that you had finally returned to the implementation of the Centre-Right Programme. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We really believed it, to the point of thinking that at any moment the government would also creak and fall, starting with Prime Minister Conte who announced his resignation, and we know very well that resignation is not announced but given. At that moment we had a surge of joy, of happiness, also because reading that sort of maxi amendment arrived in the Cesarini area, a moment before we voted, when we were almost going to enter the Chamber, we thought that Italy started again, that finally, in place of a container full of junk, perhaps the iter to realize the real code of contracts could start to start again, and the unblockers could really become a unlockers since it contained a dream, the country that we wanted and dreamed of. A two-year moratorium of the procurement code would have made Italy start running again to overcome that law no. 50 of 2016 by Renzi that had blocked everything. For a moment I did not believe my eyes, even today, when my colleague Briziarielli spoke about the end of waste and the unblocking of a system that is instead blocking another very important "cantiere" that is the recycling of waste. All this is contained in the Romeo-Patuanelli amendment, but the measure is still watered down. I have seen now, and I am pleased, a press agency of Minister Costa who is committed to implementing the end of waste within three months and I want to trust you. We want to trust you. Our amendment was more complete. Our amendment contained a useful list on a case-by-case basis in order to be able to issue authorisations. Our amendment, amendment Mallegni, would have solved the problem of all the beaches in Italy on the subject of waste, allowing algae, the so-called lavaron, to be considered a special waste that could be disposed of in the most correct way. It was just jumped, bypassed, we put a fucking thing in it, we didn't even notice it when we were voting for it. It is the usual policy of shrimp: one step forward, three steps backwards. We are truly sorry, because for the umpteenth time, while, after so much beating, we thought that the League would finally be freed and would start to really do the good of the country, there was a sudden braking, with even the Movimento 5 Stars that, in our opinion, takes over - another time - on this measure. It is clear, therefore, that we have had a disappointment. Remember that disappointments hurt more than no: if they say no immediately, I put my heart in peace; but if you deceive the country and then give the country a disappointment, disappointments are paid. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u151	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2), tabled by Senator Pergreffi. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The remaining amendments to Article 1, as well as amendments 1.0.710 and 1.0.1. are therefore excluded. Amendment 1.0.11 is absorbed by the adoption of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/462 (text 2). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u152	Mr President, I welcome Amendments 2.4 and 2.850. I am against the remaining amendments. I welcome the G2.1 and G 2.2 agendas (text 2). Finally, I am in favour of amendment 2.0.1, provided that it is amended as follows: in paragraph 1 delete points (a), (c) and (d); in point (b), replace the words "and also assisted" with the words "even if assisted" and delete paragraph 3. I am opposed to the remaining additional amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u155	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to point out that Amendment 2.0.1 has been tabled with a text 3, which is included in the annex, which should already partially incorporate the indications given earlier by the rapporteur, Senator Santillo.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u156	In this case, I am in favour of amendment 2.0.1 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u157	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.1 tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.2 tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.3 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.4, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.5, tabled by Senators Margiotta and Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator Steger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 2,850 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator De Bonis. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.9, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.10 tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.12 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 2,850. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.13, tabled by Senator Sudan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G2.1 and G2.2 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.0.1 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u160	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Excuse me, Mr President, if I recall correctly, on paragraph 4 of this amendment, the Commission's 5th opinion was contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u161	Exactly. The opinion of the Budget Commission was conditional on the deletion of paragraph 4. Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'll take that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.1 (text 4), tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.0,200 is therefore excluded. Amendment 2.0.2 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u162	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 3.1 (correct text), 3.2, 3.7, 3.9, 3.11 and 3.13. The remaining amendments were rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u163	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u164	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.1 (correct text), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.2 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.4 and 3.5 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.6 tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.7 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.8 tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.9, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.11, tabled by Senators Coltorti and Faith. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.12. is therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.13, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.14 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.15 tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.16 tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 3.17, tabled by Senators Berardi and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.0.850 and 3.0.1 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.2 tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators, identical to amendment 3.0.3 tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.0.60 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u165	Mr President, I would like to turn Amendment 4.6 (text 2) into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u166	Mr President, I want to turn Amendment 4,39 into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u167	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u168	Mr President, I believe that the request for the transformation of two important amendments, 4.6 (text 2) and 4.39, on the agenda is another disappointment, because we liked Mr Pergreffi's amendment, so much so that we had also prepared a sub-amendment. This amendment, in fact, opened up the possibility of continuing to study and carry out the mother work of all construction sites, i.e. the high-speed train. I also think that the people of Umbria and Lazio will be very disappointed because another important road work is included not in an amendment and, therefore, in the unblocking of yards, but in a simple agenda and we know what that means. Therefore, after opening the book of dreams, we close it and move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u169	Mr President, I would like to address a preliminary issue. Amendment 4.43/101 has been declared inadmissible, which is on the same subject as amendment 4.854 tabled by the rapporteurs. In this respect, I would like to ask the rapporteurs for a surplus of reflection on their amendment. I would ask the rapporteurs' attention as this measure provides in three words for the expropriation of the Railway Fund, established by Law No 449 of 1997 for the A22 motorway company. The above-mentioned law provided for the company's right not to distribute profits, but to set them aside in a specific fund for the construction of the railway. It is a dedicated fund provided for in the law and now, in three words, it is expected to be expropriated by society in favour of the State. I believe that this is the amendment to be declared inadmissible and I therefore call for a surplus of reflection. Among other things, Amendment 4,43/100, which is on the same subject as the one declared inadmissible, provides the solution by providing for A22 to finally transpose into Italy the specific directive, which stipulates that companies in houses may have private partners up to the limit of 20%. This is the solution that the Government itself has undertaken to follow in the simplification decree, approving a specific amendment, accepted as a recommendation by the Government. So, of course, I am asking for a surplus of reflection, because this is not just an expropriation, but a counter-legem measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u170	Senator Conzatti, looks like there's been some overlap. Amendment 4.43/100, which became on Annex II 4.430, was simply moved to page 53 of the file, so it was not declared inadmissible, while the next amendment did.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u171	The content of amendment 4.43/100 was, among other things, absorbed...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u172	It has not been absorbed, it has been moved and it has been declared admissible: it is a bit different.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u173	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Yes, Mr President, but we also find its content in the text of amendment 4.854 by the rapporteurs... PRESIDENT. - The debate is We have moved a series of them, because they were inadmissible and by moving them we have made them admissible, of all the signs and of all the parliamentary groups: I say this precisely. CONZACTS (FI-BP). Of course, Mr President. My concern is the addition by the rapporteurs of a fund which is actually ex-lege and which provides for this fund, which is in the budget... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u174	Colleagues, there's a big buzz: I can't hear anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u175	CONZACTS (FI-BP). The rapporteur's amendment provides that the 1997 fund... PRESIDENT. Senator Conzatti, I ask you to refer to the pages of the file, to follow better. CONZACTS (FI-BP). I am referring to Amendment 4.854 by the rapporteurs, on page 53 of the dossier, which provides that the fund provided for in Law No 449, 27 December 1997, becomes the exclusive responsibility of the State. I believe that this passage, which is innovative and is contra legem, because it is contrary to the founding law, must be subjected to further reflection. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I recall once again that Senator Conzatti's amendment was moved to page 53 of the dossier and in fact must be voted on later. Otherwise it would have been inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u176	Mr President, I am speaking only to announce the withdrawal of amendment 4.42 (text 2) on page 46 of the dossier.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u177	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u178	Mr President, I am against Amendments 4.1, which are identical to Amendments 4.2 and 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5. I call on you to accept the agenda resulting from the transformation of amendment 4.6 (text 2), provided that it is specified that these are only national sections. The opinion is opposed to amendments 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12 text 2, 4800, 4.16, 4.18, 4.19, 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23, while it supports amendments 4.7 (text 2), 4.13 and 4.15 (text 2), identical to amendment 4.17. With regard to amendment 4.21, the opinion supports only point (c). I call on you to withdraw amendment 4.530. On Amendments 4.25, 4.26, 4.27, 4.28, 4.801, 4.29, 4.31, 4.32, 4.850/100, 4.850/101, 4.850/102, 4.850/103, 4.850/104 and 4.850/105 the opinion was against, while it was in favour of Amendments 4.30 (text 3), 4,500 and 4.501. With regard to Amendment 4,850, I would like to ask for further details. The opinion was opposed to amendments 4.851/100, 4.851/102 and 4.851/104. Amendment 4.851 was withdrawn. The opinion was in favour of amendment 4.201. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 4.201 is not possible. Mr Santillo, rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President. On Amendments 4.33 (text 3) and 4.36, the opinion was in favour. On amendments 4.34, 4.35, 4.37, 4.38, 4.41 and 4.43/100, the opinion was opposed. On the G4.39 agenda, the opinion is in favour, provided that the expression "to consider whether the following amendments should be made before the words "to" are inserted. I call for amendments 4.852 and 4.40 to be withdrawn. On amendments 4.43 and 4.853/100, the opinion was in favour. I call for amendment 4.853 and 4.854 to be set aside. On Amendments 4.44, 4.45, 4.855/100 and 4.855/101 the opposite opinion. On amendment 4.855 the opinion was in favour of the following rewording: in paragraph 12-a, after the words "are in any case excluded," insert the words "for each profile." The following shall be substituted for the words "to be issued" until the end of the period: "to be endorsed and recorded by the Court of Auditors in the context of prior review of legality carried out at the request of the managing authority." I am in favour of amendment 4.856. I am opposed to Amendment 4.857/100 and to Amendment 4.857, which I would like to reword (b). The opinion also opposed Amendments 4,46, 4.0,850/100 (identical to 4.0,850/101), 4.0,850/103 (identical to 4.0,850/102) and 4.0,850/104 (identical to 4.0,850/105). Amendment 4.0.850/106 is then incorporated. President.Absorbed by what? Mr Santillo, rapporteur. Since 4.0.850. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But we still have to vote on it; the absorption we may see later. Mr Santillo, rapporteur. I am in favour of Amendments 4.0,850/106, 4.0,850/108, 4.0,850/109 and 4.0,850/110 and against Amendments 4.0,850/107 and 4.0,850/111. I am in favour of amendment 4.0.850, which amends in accordance with the conditional opinion of the Budget Commission, as well as on amendments 4.0.3 (text 2) and 4.0.4 (text 3). The opinion is opposed to amendments 4.0.70, 4.0.100, 4.0.110, 4.0.120, 4.0.851/100, 4.0.851/101 and 4.0.851/102, while in favour of amendment 4.0.851, accepting the requests for reformulation of the budget Commission. The opinion was opposed to amendments 4.0,853/100 and 4.0,853/101. Finally, I would like to ask for the provision of amendment 4.0,853.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u179	Mr President, the opinion is in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur. Also with regard to amendment 4.0.6 which has been withdrawn and turned into an agenda, we agree with the rapporteur's request that it be made clear that it is only the national sections.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u180	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4.1, which is identical to Amendments Nos 4.2 and 4.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u183	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr President, our Group originally appreciated a number of majority amendments which, yesterday, went in the direction of unblocking the yards. This direction was also given, in particular, by amendment 4.6, which has just been withdrawn. I am surprised that I also accepted the opinion of the rapporteur and the Government with regard to Amendment 4.6, which has been withdrawn, which has become an agenda. Amazement arises from a simple reason: this amendment essentially concerns international traits. It remains the port of Pescara. For the alpine traits, on the other side of the Alps, surely there are other States and no longer Italy, except that you can make a continuous gallery up to Campione d'Italia, but also the port of Pescara, probably, serves to go abroad. At the very time when we should start and unblock, the amendments relating to commitments for all yards have been withdrawn, that is, we sell unblocking: at this point, we suspend Article 4! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Among other things, this concerns not only the amendments that cost, where it could be said that we still have to make an assessment of the overall coverage, but also amendments such as 4.6, which contain sections such as that of the TAV, for which yesterday the communication came from the coordinator Radicova on the additional allocation of 1.3 billion by the European Union, reducing what is the allocation of the Italian Republic. This amendment, too, we remove it. At this point, it seems like the game of the Risiko; it seems like a chess game between the two Vice Presidents of the Council of Ministers. We would need clarity, but the clarity, unfortunately, is only in the title, of the decree unlockingantieri, and certainly not in Article 4. That is why, at this point, we only have to vote in favour of the identical amendments 4.1. 4.2 and 4.3, which even call for the deletion of Article 4, precisely so that the Government can rethink and assess the country's interest. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u186	DAMIANI (FI-BP). Mr President, I asked first for the floor, in connection with amendment 4.46, on a railway route already covered by works. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, maybe we can talk about this when we get there. DAMIANI (FI-BP). I would like to ask that Amendment 4.46, which is why I wanted to express my views, be turned into an agenda. I would like to turn the amendment, which concerns this national intervention, because the Italian railway network already has a project and funding, on the agenda, so that the government can accept it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is When we get there, we'll ask for the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u189	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, since some important amendments have been put aside, we would ask that our work be suspended for an hour. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u190	Since the sitting does not provide for a closing time, however, we can give an hour to solve all the problems associated with the proposed amendments. I therefore suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.03 p.m. and resumed at 5 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u191	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u193	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, because some aspects of the reformulations related to the opinion of the Budget Commission are still being analysed and drafted, with the rapporteurs working on this front, we are asking for a further half hour of patience to come to the end without interruptions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u194	Patience may have failed, but we naturally grant this half hour, we cannot help it. Without comment, I suspend the sitting until 5.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5 p.m. and resumed at 5.31 p.m.) Colleagues, in view of the need to proceed with the work, the Presidency provides for the temporary provision of Article 4. We shall therefore proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u195	Mr President, the decree-law before us should probably have dealt only with reconstruction following seismic events, since two very important draft laws are already under discussion in Parliament: the first, on the revision of the procurement code, which would have avoided fragmentation and partial resumption of the code; the second, on urban regeneration, which has been under discussion in the Environment and Agriculture Commissions for nine months. However, I have tabled amendments to Article 5 because they told me that, since the article on urban regeneration is now there, we should to some extent contain it. This is because of a problem due to a decision of the TAR, more than ten years ago, on which the Council of State expressed itself in September 2017. In relation to Ministerial Decree No 1444 of 1968 - which the constant jurisprudence considers a reference of law not derogable to guarantee collective needs related to hygiene and safety - it is specified what was the concern of many, that in historical centers, whether consolidated or not, the killing and reconstruction, therefore a fundamental action of urban regeneration, could entail the need to maintain the distance of 10 meters, as provided for in Article 9, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the same decree. The Council of State had already pronounced itself in the judgment of September 2017 saying that, with regard to the decree in question, Article 9 refers only to the new planning of the territory, and therefore to new buildings, not to demolitions and reconstructions, and specifies that when it comes to abatement and reconstruction it is not really recommendable to evaluate a different distance from the existing one, because the withdrawal of the silhouette of the building could involve other types of problems, such as the closure of interstitial spaces or in any case the invasion of other property. Therefore, in the amendments to which I am a signatory I have pedestically reported what the Council of State specifies in the judgment because, although the judgments clearly make jurisprudence, it is probably right that the legislators place a point of reflection, which however does not constitute a derogation, as has been attempted with other amendments, aimed at limiting the operation of Article 9 only to particular areas (zonations). Wanting to take advantage, however, of this article, which refers to urban regeneration, I also wanted to make a reference to an existing law. I repeat that it has been nine months - with hundreds of hearings and twelve draft laws being examined by the Agriculture and Environment Committees - that we are discussing an important bill and a general reorder text, since we already have some confusion with over twenty regional laws. Law No 10 of 14 January 2013 provides for rules for the development of urban green spaces. Paragraph 2 of Article 6 states that: For the purposes of soil saving and the preservation of non-urbanised municipal areas, the municipalities may... and list four points which may be used to provide for special measures of advantage aimed at promoting the reuse and reorganization of residential settlements and to provide appropriate tools for intervention on existing assets and green areas. In my amendment 5.15 I simply replaced'may' with'must', given the urgency that indiscriminate land use is causing our territory, even in terms of altered climate and increased pollution. Wanting to take advantage again, I added another paragraph b-bis) relating to the database of the existing unused real estate and disused areas, which is primary and no longer derogable to continue to build on the built. The amendments in question are three and I call on the House, which has debated climate change motions this morning, to reflect on the fact that derogating from Ministerial Decree No 1444 of 1968 means derogating from constitutional rights, just as narrative has taught us for over fifty years. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u196	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 5.5 (text 2), 5.33, 5.0.3, 5.0.850, 5.0.851, 5.0.852 (text 2) and 5.0.22 (text 3), provided that the financial invariance clause of the Budget Commission is introduced. I am against all the other amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u197	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u198	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1, which is identical to Amendments 5.2 and 5.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u201	MARTELLI (Mixed). Mr President, Amendment 5.1 is deletion of the article for reasons which have been well expressed by Mrs Nugnes: an article of this kind, for which there is no evidence of necessity or urgency, should not have been included in a decree-law. Not only that; what does article 5 of dangerous, in addition to all the things that have already been announced? Simply go to the first paragraph, letter a) that, speaking of the faculty of the Regions to introduce specific norms in the field of urban planning, affirms that the words "can preview" of the current legislation are replaced by the following: "introduce." This gives the regions the right to introduce legislation that goes beyond national legislation on land use and regeneration and urban planning. In this regard, it should first of all be noted that, as far as land consumption is concerned, this is in fact consistent with one of the proposals that were included in the commitments of the majority motion, in which we were talking about measures for responsible land use, which is to say play with moderation, or to drink as little as possible. Considering that there are twelve bills that talk about zeroing and stopping land consumption, hearing about reasonable land consumption reminds me of gambling advertising. That is the first point. The second is that there is not yet a shared notion of urban regeneration. There are lines that point to the lighthouse talking about urban regeneration and regeneration of the urbanistic fabric intended as built up and there is a strand that instead speaks of regeneration as a vision of regeneration from the point of view of the human being, which very much reminds the division that is at this time relative to the restoration: philological, the Violett-le-Duc and restoration not restoration. At a time when there is no clear definition on which to lean to talk about urban regeneration, the most dangerous thing you can do is to put your hand in it and empower the regions to legislate separately on the matter. These two reasons, combined, should suggest a minimum of prudence because we cannot reason with the idea that the Regions are all virtuous. The principle is: I don't want to know what the good spirit of the law is, but to understand what negative things a law would allow you to do. With all the good will of the world and given what has happened at levels of national urbanism, such legislation is like getting all the oxen out and then going to look for them at night. We believe that this is a problem which can become even more important, and that is why Article 5 should be deleted. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u202	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.1, tabled by Senators Martelli and De Petris, identical to Amendments 5.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, and 5.3, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.4 for the admissible part.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u203	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u204	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u205	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, I have already had the opportunity to explain in detail in the illustration of the minority report how Article 5, which should relaunch our country on urban regeneration, is quite empty. The title and the first paragraph of Article 5 have remained, which explains what the article should have done; after that the nullity of nothingness, because there is no link between the title and the article. So, Mr President, with Amendment 5.4 we do one very simple thing: we fill the article with content. And we do so with an overall vision, taking into account two fundamental prerequisites for regeneration: balance and environmental sustainability; balance and economic sustainability. Those who lose sight of one of these two elements speak vainly because in the countries where regeneration is done there is attention to regeneration from an environmental, cultural and social point of view and there is the incentive to do so. In fact, regeneration is done with public funds, but it is mainly done through private investments. Our amendment goes in exactly this direction: a great deal of attention to the environment, culture, rehabilitation and urban security, while creating the conditions for these interventions to be truly possible. In short, there is a very clear definition of what we mean by urban regeneration, of what must be the resources and competences, between the state, regions and local authorities. It defines a fundamental concept, which is that of public interest - the territories or areas of cities that are defined as of interest for urban regeneration are of public interest - and there is a declaration of public utility and consequently it can also intervene according to the code of expropriations. This applies to individual buildings, building complexes and entire blocks and it is applicable for building renovation, energy redevelopment, demolition - i.e. what the urban regulations currently call building replacement, i.e. felling and reconstruction - and earthquake-proof adaptation. There is, of course, a strong focus on protecting cultural heritage and historic centers. There is the whole question of the centrality of institutional investors and therefore pension funds, professional funds and real estate funds. Then there is the remodulation of Ministerial Decree No. 1444 of 1968, because in our country we have the paradox of a framework law of urbanism of 1942, whose implementing legislation is of 1968. We must put our hands back on it, because the expansionary urban planning of those years must no longer have anything to do with today's regenerative urban planning. Let me give you an example: we have to adjust construction costs and urbanization costs, because it is not the same thing to build a shit, in energy class G, or redevelopment, with energy class A. Construction costs should be adjusted until felling. With this amendment there is also a great deal of attention to the quality of design in public competitions. Finally, there is all the attention on tax incentives and in particular on Tasi, Tari, reduction of up to 50% of taxes and fees of any kind, decrease of the contribution for release to build, mortgage registration tax and fixed cadastral. Obviously we are always talking about the areas that the municipality defines as urban regeneration and that therefore the City Council, votes for the good of the city. Moreover, the deduction of 65% is expected, stable, for the renovation of the building, the energy and anti-seismic redevelopment and the demolition and a deduction of 50% of the gross tax relating to the amount paid for the purchase of a real estate unit in class B and, last, incentives for the interventions of energy retrofit. Mr President, I should like to end by saying that we also include the concept of administrative continuity, i.e. once the public interest has been defined, the next administration cannot cancel the regeneration programming, but must demonstrate, in doing so, that there is a prevailing public interest. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We ask all the senators to vote on the amendment, because this amendment is a regeneration and without this amendment they are chatting. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u206	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the eligible part of amendment 5.4, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u207	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u209	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that I abstained on the amendment just put to the vote for what I said earlier and the fact that I did not have the opportunity to discuss this issue here, otherwise I would have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u210	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.6, tabled by Senators Martelli and De Petris, identical to amendments 5.7, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, and 5.10, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 5.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.8, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators, up to the words of the Fund. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5.9 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.11, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.5 (text 2), tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.12 is therefore taken over and amendments 5.15 to 5.14 (text 2) are not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.18, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.19 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Ferrazzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 5.20. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.21, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.22 (text 2) has been withdrawn. We move on to amendment 5.23, which is identical to amendments 5.24 and 5.25, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u211	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u213	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking on Amendment 5,23 in a different spirit from the one with which I spoke on a previous amendment, on which I spoke, in particular by appealing to the common sense which should have seen us calmly united in simplifying a certain kind of path. On Amendment 5,23 I am speaking mainly from a political point of view, and I am addressing most of this House and the political forces. Even by virtue of the recent vote, this amendment would favour the vast majority of Italians in certain positions. The amendment in question finances a fund for urban regeneration, which also has environmental protection and the promotion of renewable energies, which is, moreover, combined with today's. Financing would be made possible by the fact that the moratorium on drilling is being terminated, which has in fact been approved in recent months. With this logic, we want to understand whether what is being done here corresponds to what is said outside this House, in the squares and in the conferences. I see here Senator Arrigoni, who at the conference at Fare Ambiente on May 15th - if I am not mistaken - I remember having supported these thesis (I appreciated it). I would like to address my fellow Members because it is time to make it clear whether we are on the side of investment or blocking it. We cannot play two parts in the same play, Mr President. Are we no TAVs, no drills, no TAPs or are we yes TAVs, yes TAPs and yes TRIVs? We need to be clear. For Brothers of Italy this amendment has the function of calling each of us to clarity. Either we vote against this amendment - and then we assume the responsibilities of being against development and then we can no longer go around saying that we are for development - or we vote in favour and we stand clearly, as 74 percent of Italian voters said, for the TAV, the drills and operations that mean development for the country. This is an amendment which also says that oil and gas can, on the one hand, guarantee development and, on the other hand, protect the environment. I would like to remind the esteemed friends of the 5 Star Movement that the greens in Europe win, or at least achieve great results, because they are against the import of hydrocarbons and not against their production. These are the greens in Europe. To be environmentalists means to hinder not already production, but - if anything - import. The drills respond to this logic and, however, we need clarity. With this amendment, Brothers of Italy asks Parliament for clarity. It addresses the friends of the League and Senator Arrigoni, asking for consistency between what is said in the squares and conferences and what is voted in this House. We want to see it with a vote, on which we are ready to fight. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u214	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.23, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi and other senators, identical to amendments 5.24, tabled by Senator Collina, and 5.25, tabled by Senator Vitali. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.28 tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.26, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.27 is not possible. Let us move on to Amendment 5.29, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5,29 tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 5.30, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u215	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u217	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I speak quickly only to remind you of what this amendment contains, which is very important to us. It calls for the transformation of the Committee on Social and Cultural Redevelopment Projects into the Standing National Committee on Social and Cultural Redevelopment of Degraded Urban Areas and the reduction of marginality and social degradation of minors. This amending proposal would ensure that municipalities want to retrain degraded urban areas, by directing buildings to social services for children and young people, a significant contribution from the State, always to promote a topic that is particularly dear to us.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u218	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.30, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.36, tabled by Senator Messina Assuntela. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 5.31, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.31, tabled by Senator Messina Assuntela. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.32 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.33, tabled by Senator Pergreffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.34 has been withdrawn. I would refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.35 (text 2), tabled by Senator Margiotta, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.1, tabled by Senator Margiotta, identical to amendment 5.0.2, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.0.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u219	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u220	Are you surprised at the favorable opinion, Senator Beginini? You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u221	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, I am not surprised, but I wanted to say a few words. This is an amendment which, by recovering a rule provided for in the budget law, which had been transposed by the Government on my proposal, allows the investment linked to what had been defined as bicycle motorways to be unblocked, a term which is not covered by Italian legislation and which is therefore reworded. The deadline is also moved to allow MIT to proceed with the ban. As Mr Toninelli is present, I hope that not only will this ban and the design of these inter-urban cycle routes be speeded up, but that the next budget law will also provide funding for the related projects. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u222	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.3 tabled by Senator Beginini. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.0.4 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 5.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.5, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.9 (text 2), tabled by Senator Margiotta, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.850/100, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.850/101, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.850/102, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.0.850 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5.0.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 5.0.13, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators, until 31 October. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 5.0.14 to 5.0.18 are therefore excluded. We move on to Amendment 5.0.15, which is identical to Amendment 5.0.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.15, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators, identical to amendment 5.0.16, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.0,851/100 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.0.851, tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.852 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senators Margiotta and Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.0,852 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteurs, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.19, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.0.20 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.22 (text 4), tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.23, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.24, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.32, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.0.25 to 5.0.31 are unacceptable. Let us move on to Amendment 5.0.33, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.0.33, tabled by Senator Ruspandini and other senators, up to the words "the interventions." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 5.0.34 to 5.0.38 are therefore not included. We move on to Amendment 5.0.39, which is identical to Amendment 5.0.40, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.39, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators, identical to amendment 5.0.40, tabled by Senator Ruspandini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.0.41 to 5.0.54 cannot be proposed. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u223	Mr President, I am in favour of amendments 6.1 and 6.2 and on the agendas G6.1 and G6.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u224	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u225	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u226	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u227	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u228	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, this amendment is very simple, but in our opinion it is also very appropriate. Through it, it is proposed that Commissioners also ensure repair and reconstruction, through specific and specific plans for the repair and reconstruction of damaged buildings, and not only the transformation and relocation. What do we mean? We want to say that first of all we must work for (or even for) keeping local communities affected by the earthquake in the place and not just for relocation. It is a question of absolute common sense, which we submit to the vote of the whole House.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u229	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.1 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.2, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G6.1 and G6.100 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u230	Mr President, I am in favour of amendments 7.3 (text 2), 7.2 and 7.4 and on agendas G7.1 and G7.2. I am against Amendment 7.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u231	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u232	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 7.3 (text 2), tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 7.2, tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 7.4, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G7.1 and G7.2 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u233	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments, with the exception of amendment 8.3, for which the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u234	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u235	We move on to amendment 8.1, which is identical to amendment 8.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u236	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u237	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u238	SUDANO (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on this article because, at last, five months after the earthquake in Catania on 26 December 2018, we are intervening in this House by allocating the funds for reconstruction. At first, it was said that EUR 300 million would be allocated. Instead, in the decree we find almost 237. So I tabled an amendment, together with my colleagues in the Group, precisely to restore the initial allocation. No one escapes the difficulty that the ethnic territories experience. A part of the majority of the government, precisely because it has often trusted in the strength of Etna against the Sicilian people, knows how seismic risk our territory and, therefore, how many investments are needed for the restructuring, prevention and reconstruction anti-seismic. This is an amendment of common sense and this House cannot pretend not to understand how important it is to invest in prevention in this area. Also because, just as today this money has been taken away, we would not want to find out in the future what has been discovered in relation to the other appropriations that had been allocated to Sicily. Senator Nencini, in the Commission, with his determination and his competence, thanks to President Alberti Casellati, has been able to discover that the ANAS has removed 16 billion euros to Italy and the Italian yards and that it has removed as many as 1,5 billion euros to the Sicilian yards. What I ask of this Government is to clarify and to say whether it really wants to unlock the infrastructure or if it wants to block them, secretly removing 1.5 billion euros from Sicily. I would like to address you, Mr President, to the Minister for the South, who has taken a lot of money from the Mezzogiorno. It is only through the infrastructure that the South will be able to grow again and certainly not through the various measures that are being taken, such as the income of citizenship. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u239	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta, identical to amendment 8.2, tabled by Senator Iannone and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8.3, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 8.4, identical to amendments 8.5 and 8.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.4, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta, identical to amendments 8.5, tabled by Senator Iannone and other Senators, and 8.6, tabled by Senator Errani and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.7 tabled by Senator Ruspandini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u240	Mr President, I am against Amendment 9.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u241	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u242	Let us move on to Amendment 9.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.1, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u243	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 10.6 and 10.10. I call on you to withdraw Amendments 10.2 (text 2), 10.9, 10.11 (text 2) and 10.110. The remaining amendments were rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u244	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. I only ask for confirmation of the opinion on Amendment 10.7. FAGGI, rapporteur. Mr President, on Amendment 10.7 the opinion is against it. CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u245	Let us move on to Amendment 10.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.1 tabled by Senator Sudan and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Does Senator Romeo accept the proposal to withdraw amendment 10.2 (text 2)? ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - Amendment 10.2 (text 2) was therefore withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 10.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.3 tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 10.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.4 tabled by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 10.5 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.5 tabled by Senator Sudan and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.6 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.7, tabled by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 10.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.8, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.9, tabled by Senators Nugnes and De Petris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.10 tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Does Senator Drago accept the proposal to withdraw Amendments 10.11 (text 2) and 10,110? DRAGO (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendments 10.11 (text 2) and 10,110 are therefore withdrawn. We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u246	Mr President, on Amendment 11.1 I welcome this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u247	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u248	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 11.1 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 12 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u249	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of Amendments 12.1 and 12.3 while it is against all the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u250	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u251	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.1, tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.3 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.4 tabled by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.5, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 13 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u252	Mr President, I support Amendments 13, 13, 2, 13, 3 (text 2)/100, 13, 3 (text 2) and, with rewording, Amendment 13.4. The remaining amendments were rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u253	What is the rewording of Amendment 13.4? FAGGI, rapporteur. In point (a), paragraph 8, after the words: "even by means of a dedicated service conference" the words: "in accordance with Articles 14 et seq. of Law No 241 of 7 August 1990."
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u254	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u255	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.1 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.2 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.3 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senator Coltorti, which fulfils a condition laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.3 (amendment text 2) tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.4 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.5 tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta, identical to amendment 13.6 tabled by Senator Errani and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 14 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u256	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 14.1 (text 2) and 14.0.850 (text 2). I am against Amendment 14.0.850/100.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u257	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u258	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.1 (text 2), tabled by Senators Romeo and Patuanelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 14.0.850 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteurs, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 16 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u259	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment No 16,850.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u260	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u261	Amendment 16,850/100 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 16,850, tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 17 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u262	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 17.1 (text 2) and 17.3 (text 2). The opinion was opposed to amendment 17.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u263	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u264	I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 17.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 17.3 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 17.4. is therefore precluded. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 18 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u265	Mr President, I am against Amendment 18.1. I am in favour of Amendments 18.2 (text 3), 18.3, 18.5 (correct text) and 18.4. Finally, I am against Amendments Nos 18,0.1 and 18,0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u266	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u267	Let us move on to amendment 18.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.1, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 18.2 (text 3), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 18.3 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.5 (correct text), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 18.4 tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 18.0.1, identical to amendment 18.0.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.0.1, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators, identical to amendment 18.0.2, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 19 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u268	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 19.1 (text 2) and 19.850 and against Amendment 19.0.1 (text 3)/100. On Amendment 19.0.1 (text 3) the opinion is in favour, but requests are made for the relocation of Chapter I by subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u269	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. On Amendment 19.0.1 (text 3), we leave it to drafting and coordination to identify the correct location.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u270	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Patuanelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 19.850 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.0.1 (text 3)/100, tabled by Senators Ronzulli and Damiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 19.0.1 (text 3/101) is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 19.0.1 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u271	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u272	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u273	GIAMMANCO (FI-BP). Mr President, we are about to vote on an amendment that I have signed with my colleagues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which provides for EUR 160 million for the installation of video surveillance systems in kindergartens, nursery schools, facilities for the elderly and disabled. I want to thank the majority who supported it, because at last what I urge from 2009 with a bill of mine seems to be possible. For ten years now, in fact, I have proposed this protection measure in favour not only of the weakest subjects (children, elderly and disabled), but also of the operators and teachers who daily work with great self-denial and great professionalism within these structures (nurseries, nursery schools and structures for the elderly and disabled). Of course, in order to determine the timing and the way in which this measure is to be implemented, the adoption of the draft law on video surveillance, which I am rapporteur for and which is currently under discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will be absolutely essential and necessary. I hope, therefore, that no more time will be wasted and that, after the adoption of this amendment, the next step is precisely to approve this draft law which does not include - I would like to remind you - only video surveillance in the places where the most fragile and vulnerable people live, but also much more, various measures to prevent and combat the phenomenon of ill-treatment to children, the elderly and the disabled, such as those concerning training. It is now a social emergency, with which we deal every day. This is yet another news of abuse that would take place in a school of the children of the Avellinese, where four teachers were arrested, accused of repeated abuse of their pupils. Thanks to hidden cameras installed in January, we saw what actually happened in these classrooms. A lot of time could have been saved if the cameras had already been installed, but a long time has passed and it has emerged that these arrested teachers exercised physical and psychological harassment on the children they should have taken care of. One of these teachers is even accused of sexual violence. "Shut up, don't cry, I have to hang you": this is just one of the many phrases spoken against these small victims by the teachers and surely these small victims will need psychological support because they will remain marked for life by this experience. I believe that we can no longer allow reports like this to continue to follow. As legislators, it is our duty to give concrete answers, effective answers that can really put an end to this sad phenomenon and to do this, it is necessary for this House to approve as soon as possible the draft law that I have been proposing for several years. This amendment will have to be the first step towards this next common objective, if we do not want this amendment that we are going to vote on to remain a dead letter and it is just a mirror for the lark, to attract consensus. We move forward, therefore, we are in the right direction, but soon we will come to approve my draft law on the subject which will give an answer to the many families who ask us to do so. [[Applause from the FI-BP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u274	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u275	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u276	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I rise to declare my vote against this amendment because it raises a serious problem, but it puts it in the worst possible way. We need to strike a balance between the right to protection and the right to confidentiality. In this proposal there is no mention of the right to confidentiality, which is an inviolable right, guaranteed by Article 2 of our Constitution. In the absence of such a balance, my vote can only be strongly and strongly opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u277	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u278	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u279	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, this is a very important amendment that we are about to vote on. It is the basis for the conclusion of a draft law which has been before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for some months now. We have auditioned several subjects and I really feel like supporting Senator Giammanco, because this bill must be brought to an end. With the establishment of this fund, important foundations certainly are laid. To briefly retrace the process of this amendment, it started with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as a proposal from the Lega Group, signed by the undersigned and shared and signed by the other members of the Commission belonging to the other political forces. There was, therefore, a full sharing of this amendment, which then saw improvements and adjustments in its path, in order to finally receive a very favourable opinion in the joint committees which examined it. I therefore hope that this amendment will be voted on by a majority and that the draft law can really be concluded. We are waiting for the opinion of the MEF, which automatically obliges us to wait further time to complete the examination of the bill, which more than ever becomes necessary. I am also saying this in the light of the fact that in recent days I have received several phone calls from various administrators who ask when it can be implemented because they are already ready in the municipalities to implement it. Amendment 19.0.1 (text 3) is certainly an important basis from which I hope to conclude the examination of the draft law on video surveillance. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u280	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u281	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u282	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I would just like to clarify a little. Even when the rapporteur presented the overall measure, she said that at last in Article 19 we have the amendment that inserts video surveillance in schools. In fact, amendment 19.0.1 (text 3) inserts a fund, and in fact paragraph 3 tells us that this fund must be regulated by a particular law, that is, the one that was illustrated earlier. This is because in reality the bill - which is at second reading here in the Senate, held in the first Commission - had already been approved in the House, but without resources. What did that mean? That the costs of the measure, as arrived here by us, would have fallen on the shoulders of the schools, in particular of the equal schools, since there was obligatoryness, and of the local authorities. The above amendment creates the fund to prevent local authorities and equal schools from finding themselves in difficulty in the face of compulsory schooling, because they cannot have autonomous resources to provide for them. In any case, the bill is much more complex, fortunately, and it cannot be limited only and exclusively to the video surveillance that, I repeat, is present here because a guarantee fund is foreseen to be able to bring home the provision, but that is built for everything an article - this is very important - on training. Colleagues, prevention - and we are convinced of this - is done first of all by investing in training, measures for our teachers, by ensuring that burnout syndrome is prevented as much as possible and by always protecting the educating community. In this regard, I have to say that, with the serious work done by the 1st Commission, and thanks to a comprehensive review of the text as serious by the rapporteur, we have succeeded. Therefore, this cannot be used only and exclusively as an electoral spot by liquidating it with a... we put video surveillance in schools... because it would not reflect the spirit of that norm - to which this same amendment refers to paragraph 3 - which, I repeat, sees an in-depth work instead. Finally, we have the courage to say that prevention is first and foremost by investing in training, in the preparation of workers, in the fact that accreditations for structures are reviewed. Often, in fact, we have verified, even during these years, that some episodes of violence against the elderly and the disabled have occurred because those structures could not stand there and the forms of accreditation were not valid. There is therefore a seriousness of work and, given the cooperation with which the measure was dealt with in the first Commission, I was very sorry when it was dismissed as a pure electoral slogan, as a sort of 'we finally have video surveillance in schools'. It doesn't work that way, colleagues. The moment you need a camera means that someone has already suffered abuse, violence. In order to prevent this, we must start from something else, and I repeat, thanks to the serious work done in the first Commission today, we have a text which takes into account in a strong way the whole of the part relating to workers, their training and preparation. I say it at Mom's: I don't want my daughters to go to a school just because there are cameras. I want them to go quietly to school because they know they have trained and valid teachers. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u283	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u284	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u285	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I want to make it clear that I voted against the amendment because it deals with a very serious and important problem with a simplistic and totally inadequate response. Colleagues, I would like us to think about our children or our parents and, if the very serious problems that colleagues and colleagues have mentioned in these hours were tackled simply by video surveillance, we would not solve any problems and we would go to harm the right to privacy and - I think of the elderly who are not self-sufficient - dignity. I am therefore against and will carefully evaluate this measure which will be discussed on this subject, but here we must talk about training, accreditation of public and private structures, the controls that are not there, the market that is being done for children and, above all, for elderly people who are not self-sufficient. It does not convince me; it risks being demagogy that does not respond to problems.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u286	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 19.0.1 (text 3), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u287	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u288	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u289	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would ask you to consider, also given the spirit of adaptation and flexibility that we have had to keep in our work in order to try to make them evolve on this measure, the possibility of renumbering and, therefore, to put to the vote sub-amendment 19.0.1 (text 3/101 of Senator Bellanova, which concerns the workers of the port of Taranto. It is quite clear that it was a technical reason that led us to make the amendment a sub-amendment to Article 19-a. We didn't think there were any additional articles. At the time when an agreement was reached on the submission of an additional article 19-a, we were no longer in a position to propose a new amendment to the House because the deadlines had expired. However, we believe that this argument is worthy of discussion as much as many other arguments taken into account in this provision and, therefore, I would ask that it be renamed, that it be considered as an article 19-b and put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u290	Senator Ferrari, having been pronounced by the Presidency the inadmissibility, I must accept the inadmissibility pronounced. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 20 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u291	Mr President, I am against Amendment 20.0.2 and I am against Amendment 20.850.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u292	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u293	Let us move on to Amendment 20.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment 20.0, tabled by Senators Modena and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 20.0.850 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 21 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u294	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 21,4, 21,5 and 21.9 (text 2). I am against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u295	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u296	Let us move on to Amendment 21.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u297	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u298	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u299	PAGE (FI-BP). Mr President, I rise on a number of amendments signed by me and my colleague, Mr Quagliariello, in relation to the problems affecting the city of L'Aquila, other municipalities of the crater, as well as a number of other emergencies affecting the companies that operate and operated in the period immediately following the earthquake of 2009, in which, unfortunately, there were high observations and the request for the return of taxes, which had been suspended at the time of the earthquake and the Berlusconi Government, which imposed a period of suspension of taxes. Well, the Government has expressed its opposition to all these amendments, but it is right to know that these requests come from that territory, from the municipal administration of L'Aquila, from the post-an earthquake reconstruction offices, which not only concern the city of L'Aquila, but all the municipalities participating in the crater. Once again, unfortunately, they are not given adequate answers to the needs of that territory, which fails to come out, after ten years, from the incalculable damages deriving from that earthquake so devastating. I would add that it seemed that a timid initiative had been initiated by the Government in relation at least to the possibility of rehiring all the qualified personnel, the engineers of Fintecna and other companies that had already collaborated for their fixed-term rehire with the post earthquake reconstruction offices. Unfortunately, in this respect too, there has been a lack of response from the current Government. It is right then that, during this vote, we remember today, once again, a failure to respond to a population that has suffered enormous damage from that tragic event, from which it cannot come out because no answers are given to that question and, once again, we record today a lack of response from the Government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u300	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.12 tabled by Senators Quagliariello and Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.1, tabled by Senators Quagliariello and Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 21.4 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 21.8 (text 2) to 21.3. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 21.5 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 21.6 and 21.7. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.9 (text 2), tabled by Senator Romeo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 21.10, which is identical to Amendment 21.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 21.10 tabled by Senators Quagliariello and Pagano, identical to Amendment 21.11, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 21.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 21.0.1, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, up to the words "right" of the owner. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder and amendments 21.0.2 and 21.0.3. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment No 21.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 21.0.4 tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 21.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 21.0.5, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment No 21,0.19, identical to Amendment No 21,0.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 21.0.19, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, identical to Amendment 21.0.20, tabled by Senators Quagliariello and Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 21.0.7, identical to amendment 21.0.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 21.0.7 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, identical to Amendment 21.0.8, tabled by Senators Quagliariello and Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 21.0.9 which is identical to Amendment 21.0.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 21.0.9 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, identical to Amendment 21.0.10, tabled by Senators Quagliariello and Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment No 21.0.11, which is identical to Amendment No 21.0.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 21.0.11, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, identical to Amendment 21.0.12, tabled by Senators Quagliariello and Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 21.0.13 to 21.0.16 cannot be proposed. Let us move on to Amendment No 21.0.17, which is identical to Amendment No 21.0.18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.0.17, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, identical to amendment 21.0.18, tabled by Senators Quagliariello and Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 21.0.21, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 21.0.21, tabled by Senators Quagliariello and Pagano, up to the words "territorially competent." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder and amendments 21.0.22 and 21.0.40 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 22 of the Decree-Law, on which amendments have been tabled, which I call on the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u301	Mr President, representatives of the Government, I will present all our amendments, which concern the reconstruction of Central Italy and follow the organic bill that we tabled in March, to unblock your immobility, to put at the centre an idea of the development of the countries of the internal areas, which you have deleted from the political agenda this year. You have used the decree-law in question as a pretext - one of many - to settle the accounts between you. You have postponed for weeks, because you are interested only in the election campaign, in insulting yourself from morning to night, on social media or on TV, and in playing theater. You've wasted time and days: for you one day it's nothing, but for a business or for a worker waiting, one day it can be everything. This is what our amendments talk about, how to support instruments to create and defend jobs and services, since you do not add a single euro to what we have allocated in the last parliamentary term. These are amendments on how to find the reasons to remain in our territories, to repopulate them, to defend vital services such as education. We ask that the intervention for the schools of the small municipalities of the crater be confirmed, so that they do not lose teachers and that they do not close. This is the need of children, families, those who live there where everything is more difficult, where a multi-class does not only mean shared identity, but means a place where to design their own future. During all these days, the mayors, with the tricolor bands, have never stopped protesting, while you were doing yet another scene and have never stopped making their voices heard, to try to rekindle those spotlights, which in all these months you have turned off. One mayor told me that for them the earthquake doesn't even deserve the title of a law. He's right, you can't deny it. We have asked you for an ad hoc measure, specifically on Central Italy, which should be the largest construction site in Europe, but which you have kept paralyzed for a year because of indifference and presumption. You have disgraced our laws, but you know perfectly well that the decrees adopted have allowed to protect income and moral estate, because no one has been left alone and no one has been left behind, billions have been invested and - for the first time - a total coverage has been provided for the second houses as well. Above all, reconstruction has been linked to a broader social economic project to think about the role of Apennine areas for the coming decades. For your part, however, there is no idea, no strategy, and even today's measure is absolutely inadequate. Undersecretary Crimi, I see you're busy on the phone, but where's the shock decree you bragged of? This cannot be the case, because you have ignored almost all the requests of the Regions voted at the unified conference, despite the fact that Minister Toninelli was absent twice in two. We needed micro technical measures to speed up a regulatory system that works; these are measures without charges, but you did not include them in the measure. In the same way, there are no tools to relocate production activities, nor the possibility of using expenditure savings to continue work contracts in the special offices for reconstruction and in the municipalities. For a year we have been asking you for an intervention to address critical issues that in 2016 we could not know, but you have not done so and you have transformed the reconstruction into a further emergency. It is true, Mr President, that there were excessive rigidities in our approach, but they were dictated by a need that has a strong political value, namely to avoid criminal infiltration and to stop illegal attempts which, in other cases, have blocked the work and done enormous damage. We say woe to lower our guard even today, because it is the keeping of our communities. That is why we have put a question to the President of the Council of Ministers on the desirability of more transparent rules and on the very important donations of solidarity and charity of private individuals, also in the light of the judicial investigations concerning the Municipality of Visso. Mr President, gentlemen of the government, try talking to the mayors of the crater: they will tell you that they have been abandoned in the last year and that this climate of detachment between municipalities and government creates humiliation and frustration among technicians, staff and citizens, who should instead be moved to react. They will tell you that talking to Commissioner Farabollini is like talking empty with a rubber wall. Some of the things that we have been asking for for for months, which we are late in today, and we support them today, and indeed we also claim them to be our merit. I am thinking of the recruitment of staff, the extension of the heavy pay envelope, the direct choice in private reconstruction for small jobs, which is very important, but which we are asking of you in compliance with the transparency rules of the procurement code. However, much, much is still missing. That is why we ask you to approve our amendments, in order to equate productive construction with housing, to give more role to professionals and to protect workers with the obligation to apply national collective agreements, and to support small crater enterprises to access the work of reconstruction. Above all - and I conclude - we ask you to do this in order to ensure that the question of the internal areas of our Apennines returns to the centre. Colleagues, let us all do it together, again, a great and indispensable national issue. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u302	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on the fact that it is difficult - indeed absolutely impossible - not to agree with Mr Verducci, who has made a precise and precise summary, albeit in different tones from what I would have used, even if the problems are the same. We were waiting and waiting, Mr Crimes, for a measure under the title "earthquake," as had been announced on several occasions, and we are still waiting for it. I don't know if you're still planning on presenting an organic reconstruction measure. I think it is quite logical, ladies and gentlemen, to say that the first construction site to be unblocked is obviously the reconstruction of Central Italy. We all agree on this. I would like to focus instead on the timing of the practices that lie at the special offices of reconstruction, so that you know them, which have been documented, for the benefit of the Undersecretary Crimes and also of all of us, colleagues. In essence, for minor damage it takes nine to eleven days of investigation, while for serious damage from fourteen to eighteen days. I am talking about Umbria, because, since it is my region, it is the situation that I know best, having followed it closely, as far as possible. To date, these are the practices fired at the offices: in Umbria the regional USR, which has about twenty technicians, in this period has escaped 500 practices, 110 of which have been closed. There are 1,200 questions, ladies and gentlemen, and more than 8,000 questions are expected. According to what I told you earlier, these are staggered times in days, half days and hours and an absolutely precise and timely timing. According to the timetable we have reported, therefore, with twenty instructors, at the Special Office for the Reconstruction of Umbria, 500 practices are fired in one year. This means, ladies and gentlemen - know it - that, even if it is not Italian, it is the language of Facebook - that with this staff, to which the measure under consideration adds nothing, because it puts 200 people for 136 municipalities, plus the USR, and with this timing the 8,000 practices will be escaped in sixteen years, and I stress it. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] Then do not say that you did not know that it takes sixteen years to escape 8,000 reconstruction practices in Umbria (then there are Lazio, Marche and Abruzzo), and this not to carry out the reconstruction work, but to lay off the practices at the regional USR. Here is the picture of the reconstruction, the first, most shameful Italian construction site. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u303	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u304	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u305	DRAGO (M5S). Mr President, I refer to my political youth. We have already exceeded Article 10, to which amendment 10.11 (text 2) was referred, which was called for to be withdrawn on the basis of the opposition expressed by the Budget Commission, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution. On that occasion I did not say anything and we went on: if there is any chance, I would ask to turn it into an agenda for which I would deposit the text. However, I put everything clearly in his hands. I would remind you that Amendment 10.11 (text 2) concerns the possibility of economically intervening for condominium administrators who will have to reconstruct and renovate buildings in post earthquake areas, particularly in the Province of Catania.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u306	I mean that he did not insist on the vote and therefore there was no vote. DRAGO (M5S). Exactly, and so is it possible to turn it into an agenda? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So it's okay, if you don't make observations. The remaining amendments are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u307	Mr President, I am against Amendments Nos 22,100, 22,2, 22,3, 22,6, 22,7 (text 2), 22,8, 22,9, 22,10, 22,11 and 22,17 (text 2). I welcome Amendments 22.4 (text 3), 22.5 (text 2) and identical Amendments 22.12, 22.13 and 22.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u308	On these last amendments there is the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission, Senator Faggi. I'd replace it with an invitation to withdraw.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u309	FAGGI, rapporteur. Invitation to retreat? I'm asking the government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Faggi. You gave a favourable opinion on Amendments Nos 22.4 (text 3) and 22.5 (text 2). Then we come to Amendments Nos 22.12, 22.13 and 22.14, which are identical, on which an invitation to withdraw would be appropriate, having given the 5th Commission an opinion against it, even though I believe they will be voted on. We then have Amendments Nos 22.15 and 22.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition. Then we have sub-amendment 22,900/100. Is the opinion against this? FAGGI, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to ask for the provision of amendments 22,900/100 and 22,900 and I support Amendment 22,18 (text 2). PRESIDENT. - The debate is We're going into a bit of a minefield here. We must see what happens with the previous amendment, which is, however, premissive, whereas this is a substitute and, therefore, we can maintain it. Then we have Amendments Nos 22, 19, 22, 20, 22, 29, 22, 21, 22, 22, 22, 23, 22, 24, 22, 25 and 22, 26, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition. FAGGI, rapporteur. On Amendment 22.26 I make a call for withdrawal. President: Senator Romeo, do you withdraw amendment 22.26? ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr President, I shall withdraw it. FAGGI, rapporteur. I am against Amendment 22.27/100 and I am in favour of Amendment 22.27. I am against Amendments Nos 22.28 and 22.30. I am in favour of Amendment No 22.31, provided that the following rewording is accepted: "After paragraph 4, add the following: In paragraph 5, third period, article 67-b, decree-law 22 June 2012, n. 83, converted, with amendments, by law 7 August 2012, n. 134, the words: "staff in service at 30 September 2018' shall be replaced by the following: "staff assigned to each municipality under the quota referred to in this paragraph' is replaced by the following: PRESIDENT. - The debate is On Amendment 22.33 there is the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission, as well as on Amendment 22.34. FAGGI, rapporteur. I am in favour of Amendments 22.32 (text 2) and 22.35 (text 2). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is the opposite of the Commission's 5th opinion on both of them. FAGGI, rapporteur. The government gave me different directions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u310	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u311	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u312	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, the 5th Commission's opinion on Amendment 22.13 has been taken on board. PRESIDENT. - The debate is So, identical amendments 22.12, 22.13 and 22.14 are not impervious under Article 81 of the Constitution? PESCO (M5S). That is correct, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - Mr Pesco, I have here the text of the opinion delivered by the 5th Commission, which they are unable to act on. PESCO (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to read the last page of the last opinion produced by the Budget Committee. I do not know whether it has remained a refutation from the previous text, but I guarantee that on amendments 22.12, 22.13 and 22.14, identical, there is an opinion of no obstacle.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u313	Senator Pesco, the Offices have actually just informed me that there has been a correction on the opinion given to amendment 22.13 and, consequently, also to amendments 22.12 and 22.14, identical to it. The Presidency takes note of this and invites the rapporteur to continue her comments on the amendments to Article 22.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u314	Mr President, the opinion is against amendment 22.34, while it is in favour of amendments 22.32 (text 2) and 22.35 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u315	I would ask the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Pesco, if the Commission's opinion remains contrary to these two amendments, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, as is apparent from the text of the opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u316	Mr President, the opinion remains opposed to those two amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u317	Senator Faggi, I invite you to take note of the continuation of the 5th Commission's opinion on these two amendments and to amend the opinion you have given.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u318	Mr President, I take note of this and therefore call for the withdrawal of Amendments 22.32 (text 2) and 22.35 (text 2). The opinion was opposed to Amendments 22.1, 22,0.1, 22,0.2 and 22,0.3. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, I call for the withdrawal of Amendments Nos 22,0.5 and 22,0.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u319	I would ask Senator Arrigoni if he accepts the call for these two amendments to be withdrawn. Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr President, I shall withdraw them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendments 22.0.5 and 22.0.6 are therefore withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u320	Mr President, the opinion is against Amendments Nos 22,0.7 and 22,08, while it is in favour of Amendments Nos 22,0.9 (text 3)/100 and 22,0.9 (text 3). Given the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, I call for the withdrawal of amendment 22.0.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u321	I ask Senator Romeo if he accepts the invitation to withdraw. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u322	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. While expressing my doubts about the opinion that amendments 22.32 (text 2) and 22.35 (text 2) are imprecise, we note this. FARAONE (PD). Mr. President, what does that mean? CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I said I'd take note of that. Can't I? The 5th Commission and not the Government express their impervious opinions! [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u323	Colleagues, it is not for the Undersecretary Crimes to make assessments pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution. Let us move on to Amendment No 22,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 22,100, tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 22.2 which is essentially identical to Amendment 22.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.2 tabled by Senator Verducci, essentially identical to amendment 22.3 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.4 (text 3), tabled by the Commissions, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 22.5 (text 2), tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 22.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.6 tabled by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 22.7 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 22.7 (text 2), tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 22.8 identical to amendment 22.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.8 tabled by Senator Verducci, identical to amendment 22.9 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 22.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 22.10 tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 22.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 22.11 tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 22.17 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.17 (text 2), tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.12, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, identical to amendments 22.13, tabled by Senators Patuanelli and other senators, and 22.14, tabled by Senators Quagliariello and Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 22.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.15, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 22.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 22.16 tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 22,900/100 and 22,900 are provided for. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 22.18 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 22.19 is therefore excluded. We move on to amendment 22.20, which is identical to amendment 22.29, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 22.20 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso, identical to Amendment 22.29, tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 22.21, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 22.21, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 22.22, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 22.22, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 22.23, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 22.23 tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 22.24, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 22.24, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 22.25, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 22.25, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 22.26 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 22.27 tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 22.28, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 22.28 tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.30 tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.31 (text 2), tabled by Senator Patuanelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 22.33, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 22.33 tabled by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 22.34, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.34 tabled by Senators Quagliariello and Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 22.32 (text 2) which is identical to Amendment 22.35 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.32 (text 2), tabled by Senator Quagliariello and other senators, identical to amendment 22.35 (text 2), tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.1, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 22.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.0.1, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 22.0.2, which is identical to amendment 22.0.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.0.2, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, identical to amendment 22.0.3, tabled by Senators Quagliariello and Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 22.0.5 and 22.0.6 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 22.0.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.0.7 tabled by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 22.0.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.0.8, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.0.9 (text 3)/100, tabled by Senator Romeo. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 22.0.9 (amendment text 3) tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 22.0.10 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 23 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u324	Mr President, with regard to Amendment 23.0,850 by the rapporteurs, as we are working on a reformulation and of course there is no time to do so, I propose that we withdraw the amendment and turn it into an agenda. In this way, the rule contained in it could be included in a next measure, perhaps already in the one under discussion in the Chamber on growth which could be the right means for this reformulated amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u325	The remaining amendments are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u326	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 23.4 (text 2), 23.13, 23.22 (text 3) with a rewording requested by the 5th Commission and 23.750. I call for the withdrawal of amendment 23.39.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u327	I would ask the presenters whether they intend to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u328	CASTALDI (M5S). Yes, Mr President, I shall withdraw it. FAGGI, rapporteur. I am in favour of Amendments Nos 23.751 and 23.75 and Amendment No 23.81 (text 2) subject to rewording. I call for the withdrawal of amendment 23.91. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask the presenters whether they intend to withdraw it. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I shall withdraw it. FAGGI, rapporteur. I am aware of a text 3 of Amendment No 23.95, on which, however, the Budgetary Committee has expressed its opposition, whereas there would be a text 2 on which it could express its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u329	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u330	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u331	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I accept the call for text 3 of the amendment to be reworded, restoring the content of text 2 and at the same time accepting the conditions laid down by the Budget Commission, which has already given its conditional favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u332	I therefore support Amendment 23.95 (text 4). Amendment 23.0.850 has been turned into an agenda, on which I am in favour. Call for the withdrawal of amendment 23.0.2. The remaining amendments were rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u333	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur, with the following comments. On Amendment 23.22 (text 3) the Government calls for a rewording aimed at shifting the specification to 90 days at the end. If the Presidency authorizes me, I would deposit the text of the reformulation proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u334	As the Commission's opinion was conditional on this amendment, I have to ask President Pesco whether the reformulation of the Undersecretary of Crimes could lead to additional expenditure or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u335	CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, I am going to read it. It remains the same as "In order to avoid abandonment" phenomena up to "it is allowed"; then it continues directly with the words "the installation of temporary and removable structures, on the ground where the same buildings or on other land of property located in the territory of the same Municipality with any urban destination or on land also not owned or on other land on which there is a real right of enjoyment" with the addition of the words "previa acquisition of the declaration of availability by the property". It then goes on identical to be declared suitable for this purpose by a special municipal act until the end. Finally, the following is added: Within ninety days of the issuing of the order for the serviceability of the destroyed or damaged property, the persons referred to in the first period shall dismantle or remove the removable temporary structures referred to in this Article and restore the status of the places in question. The time constraint is thus more explicit: within ninety days of the declaration of agibility the status of the places must be restored and it is obviously borne by the property, therefore without any burden for the public finance. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on President Pesco to express his views on the reformulation that has just been outlined.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u336	There's no problem. The only thing is that account is also taken of the proposal for a reformulation that we have already done at the time. There was already a request for integration on the text, right?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u337	Yeah, I think it's already incorporated into that.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u338	The rewording proposed by the 5th Commission must be compared with its integration.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u339	CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If his con at the end the words "with charges at their expense" receive him... CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Paragraph 2 remains, not having touched it. On Amendment 23.0.3, at the first signature of Senator Verducci, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, I have a proposal for a rewording, which I would like to make, with the prayer to assess whether this opposition can be overcome. I would ask for an assessment by bringing the Commission together as it sees fit.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u340	It is President Pesco who has to assess it. For the time being, as this is an additional amendment, I have the provision to forward the text to President Pesco and move on with everything else. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.2 (text 2), tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators, identical to amendments 23.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Errani and other senators, and 23.93 (text 2), tabled by Senator Verducci, which transposes the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u341	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u342	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u343	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I did not understand the wording of the opinions on my amendment 23.0.5, on which there was an agreement to reformulate it or to vote on it together with Senator Briziarielli's amendment 23.95. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is incorporated into Amendment 23.95 in its final wording. It still has to happen, but when we get there, it will be. If you accept a suggestion, you subscribe to Senator Briziarelli's amendment, so bring home the result. LUCIDES (M5S). If Senator Briziarelli agrees, I'll sign it. BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, I agree.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u344	President, there was also Senator Lucidi's amendment 23410, in the annex, already 21.4/100, on which a favourable opinion is expressed if reworded like 23.95, as last reworded: as it is very similar to this amendment, on the part of the Government there would be a favourable opinion conditional on a rewording that would make it identical to it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u345	At this point, if Senator Lucidi has signed the amendment of which Mr Briziarelli is the first signatory, being essentially identical, he withdraws 23,410. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.3 tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.4 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 23.5, 23.6 (text 2) and 23.7 (text 2) are therefore excluded. We move on to amendment 23.8 identical to amendment 23.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.8 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, identical to Amendment 23.9 tabled by Senators Quagliariello and Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 23.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.10 tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 23.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.11 tabled by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.12 tabled by Senator Ruspandini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.13 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.14, tabled by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.15, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 23.16, identical to Amendments 23.17 and 23.18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.16, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta, identical to Amendments 23.17, tabled by Senator Errani and other Senators, and 23.18, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 23.19, identical to Amendments 23.20 and 23.21, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.19, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta, identical to Amendments 23.20, tabled by Senator Errani and other Senators, and 23.21, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.53 (text 2), tabled by Senator Astorre, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 23.22 (text 4).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u346	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u347	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u348	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, during the investigation and analysis in the Commission, we made a request in relation to the part relating to land not owned by the applicant for the installation of removable structures. That part would have to be eliminated. I'm asking if she has to be left. Undersecretary Crimi, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u349	Mr President, I respond to President Pesco. The ratio of removing that part was aimed - but I would like to understand if the interpretation is correct - at preventing it from becoming a general authorization to install temporary structures on other people's land. Therefore, in order to overcome this danger we have introduced in the proposed rewording the wording "previa acquisition of the availability of the property", as it is a temporary structure to be realized in totally destroyed areas where there are perimeter areas (the famous red areas) in which it is not easy that those who have had the destroyed house have the availability of a land, while it is possible, for usufruct rather than for convenient use, rent or in ways that can be agreed, to obtain the land of others, of which one has a right of enjoyment obviously subordinate to the acquisition of the availability, as is done in any activity that is exercised on another's land. That is not a general authorization; it is the urban authorization by the municipality that provides for this rule, except that the property authorizes the installation of a temporary structure in its own land. It is a very important norm for the areas that today have seen a high devastation, such as Amatrice, Accumoli, Arquata, and we could list many others.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u350	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u351	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u352	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, I apologise to everyone, but I read [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] : On land also not owned or on other land on which there is a real right of enjoyment, subject to the acquisition of the declaration of availability by the property. It is not a real right of enjoyment to have only this statement and, therefore, the perplexity remains.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u353	I have the provision for amendment 23.22 (text 4) and we will talk about it after we have considered it. I want to see a written text so I can comment and evaluate it. Let us move on to Amendment 23.23, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.23, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.24, tabled by Senator Modena and other Senators, identical to Amendments 23.25, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other Senators, and 23.86, tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 23.27, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 23.27, tabled by Senator Verducci, until the words:................................................................................................................... (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 23.26 to 23.33 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 23.29, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I call for a simultaneous vote by ballot of the first part of amendment 23.29, tabled by Senators D'Alfonso and Verducci, up to the words: 'March 2015'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 23.30 to 23.70 are therefore not included. Amendments 23,750/100 to 23,750/103 are inadmissible. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23,750, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 23.31 and 23.32 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.35, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators, identical to amendment 23.36, tabled by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I must inform you that the rapporteurs have tabled an amendment to the single article of the bill of conversion, which I believe you have already seen. If you want to subemend it, it's in distribution and you have until 8:00. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.37 tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 23.38, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.38 tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 23.39 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.40, tabled by Senators Astorre and D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 23.41, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.41 tabled by Senator Astorre. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.42, tabled by Senator Verducci, identical to Amendments 23.43, tabled by Senators D'Alfonso and Verducci, 23.44, tabled by Senator Modena and other Senators, and 23.45, tabled by Senator Errani and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 23.46, which is identical to Amendments 23.48, 23.47 and 23.92, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.46, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta, identical to amendments 23.48, tabled by Senator Verducci, 23.47, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso, and 23.92, tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 23.49, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.49, tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 23.51, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.51 tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.52, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 23.50 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 23.54, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.54 tabled by Senator Astorre. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.751, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.55, tabled by Senators Astorre and D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 23.56, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 23.56, tabled by Senator Errani and other senators, until the words 'n'. Fifty-six. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 23.72 and 23.57 are therefore excluded. Let us turn to Amendment 23.58 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.58 (text 2), tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.59 tabled by Senators D'Alfonso and Astorre. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 23.60, which is identical to Amendment 23.61, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.60, tabled by Senator Modena and other senators, identical to Amendment 23.61, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 23.62, which is identical to Amendments 23.63, 23.64 and 23.65, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.62, tabled by Senators Quagliariello and Pagano, identical to amendments 23.63, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other Senators, 23.64, tabled by Senator Errani and other Senators, and 23.65, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 23.66, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.66 tabled by Senators D'Alfonso and Astorre. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.67, tabled by Senators D'Alfonso and Verducci, identical to amendment 23.73, tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 23.68, which is identical to Amendment 23.69, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.68, tabled by Senator Errani and other senators, identical to Amendment 23.69, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 23.74, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.74, tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment No 23.75, tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 23.76, tabled by Senator Errani and other senators, up to the words "Durc" and "Durc." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 23.77 and 23.78 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 23.79, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.79, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Patuanelli, do you withdraw Amendment 23.80? Patuanelli (M5S). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.81 (text 3), tabled by the Commissions, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 23.82, which is identical to Amendment 23.83, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.82 tabled by Senators Quagliariello and Pagano, identical to Amendment 23.83, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 23.84 has been withdrawn. Let us turn to Amendment 23.85, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.85 tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 23.87, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.87 tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.88 tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 23.89, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the first part of Amendment 23.89, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other Senators, has been requested, it should be replaced by the words'substituted by'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 23.90 (text 2) are therefore excluded. Amendment 23.91 has been withdrawn. Let us turn to Amendment 23.94, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.94 tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 23.95 (text 4).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u354	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u355	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u356	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, this amendment allows us to respond with facts to Mr Verducci's unfounded accusations of our attitude towards the mayors of the crater municipalities. Not only do we give answers, as in this case, to the problems arising from the earthquake, but also to those arising from the maladministration of PD, as in the case of the Municipality of Spoleto. [[Comments from the PD. Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] There are Commons in deficit. You can document: the municipality of Spoleto, for example, has 15 million holes that it has to pay in thirty years, inherited from PD administrations, and blocked the budget. Thanks to the amendment before us, this and other municipalities will be able to use the administrative surplus, which would otherwise not be possible, for urgent measures on roads and infrastructure. Therefore, we believe that the current administrations and citizens, especially in the crater, cannot pay blame not to them and with this amendment we give answers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u357	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.95 (text 4), tabled by Senator Briziarelli and other senators, which transposes the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 23.0.5 and 23.0.270 are therefore incorporated. Amendment 23410 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.1, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 23.0.850/100, 23.0.850/101 and 23.0.850/102 have fallen. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G23.0.850 will not be put to the vote. I would ask Senator Verducci whether he intends to withdraw amendment 23.0.2 and accept the rewording of amendment 23.0.3 which has been proposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u358	Mr President, we in the Commission and here in this House have had a very constructive attitude. Reconstruction is not a party banner, but it is a political objective and should be such for all of us. The representatives of the Government, who have followed my work in the Commission, know that most of my colleagues know this and I am sorry for Mr Briziarelli, in this case. As evidence of this, we voted on all the useful amendments and fought for their approval. With regard to your request, Mr President, I welcome the request for the rewording of Amendment 23.0.3 tabled by the Undersecretary of Crimes and I also say that the yes to this amendment by my signature, which the Senate can approve, has been awaited for many months by the mayors and families, who have repeatedly asked the relevant Minister. I note, with regret, that the Government is asking instead to put aside amendment 23.0.2 which would also allow opportunities for the new courses of second-degree institutions. The priority, however, is certainly the derogation, which allows us not to lose schools, teachers and staff for the institutions of the small municipalities of our crater. Therefore, I welcome the rewording of amendment 23.0.3 which has been proposed and I would also like to thank the Undersecretary of Crimes correctly, for having responded immediately to my and our demands and for working together on this issue, which is so felt and important, this week.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u359	Amendment 23.0.2 is therefore withdrawn. Senator Verducci, I appreciate your thanks for Amendment 23.0.3, but I think you are doing the costs without the host, because the reformulation has only arrived now and so I have the provision, so that we can bring it to the attention of the President of the Budget Commission. Let us move on to Amendment 23.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.0.4 tabled by Senator Ruspandini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 23.0.5 and 23.0.270 are absorbed by the adoption of amendment 23.95. Let us move on to Amendment 23.0.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.0.6 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 23.0.7 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.0.7 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 23.0.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.0.8, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 23.0.9 is unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 24 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u360	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 24.1 and against Amendment 24.2. I call on you to accept the agenda G24.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u361	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur. With regard to the G24.1 agenda, the opinion is in favour, provided that it is reworded as follows:
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u362	I invite the speakers and the representative of the Government to comment on the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u363	Mr President, I withdraw Amendments 24.0.850 and 24.0.851. The remaining amendments were rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u364	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u365	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 24.1 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.2 tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The signatories accept the proposal for redrafting the agenda G24.1. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G24.1 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Amendment 24.0.850/100 has lapsed. Amendments 24.0.850 and 24.0.851 have been withdrawn. Amendments 24.0.851/101, 24.0.851/100 and 24.0.851/102 are inadmissible. Let us move on to Amendment No 24.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 24.0.1, tabled by Senator Ruspandini and other senators, until the words "the suspension" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 24.0.2. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 24.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 24.0.3 tabled by Senator Ruspandini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.0.4 tabled by Senator Ruspandini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 24.0.5 is unacceptable. Let us move on to Amendment 24.0.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 24.0.6 tabled by Senator Ruspandini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 24.0.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 24.0.7 tabled by Senator Ruspandini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 25 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u366	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of Amendments 25,2 and 25,500. The remaining amendments were rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u367	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u368	Amendment 25.1 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 25.2 tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 25.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 25.3 tabled by Senator Ruspandini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 25,500/100 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 25,500, tabled by the Commissions meeting, which fulfils a condition laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 25.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 25.4 tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 25.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.5, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators, up to the words "present article". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 25.6. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 25.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 25.0, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 26 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u369	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments Nos 26,750, 26,5 and 26,0.4 (text 2), while everything else is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u370	Mr President, I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u371	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26.1, tabled by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 26.2 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 26,750/100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 26,750/100, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26,750/101, tabled by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26,750/102, tabled by Senators Margiotta and Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26,750, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 26.3 is therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 26.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 26.4 tabled by Senator Astorre. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 26.5 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 26.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u372	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u373	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u374	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, I am very sorry to have received the opposite opinion on these amendments, which relate to the collapse of the Morandi bridge and to the needs of the city of Genoa in particular, one of which is also related to the port of Savona, which also had problems, following all the inconveniences that there have been. These are very specific amendments, which have been studied precisely on the problems raised at the moment by citizenship, businesses or traders. They were therefore minimal demands, such as the small extension of the fund that is already established in the decree-law, because in reality there are many inconveniences also with regard to the explosions that are taking place to destroy the bridge. There was an amendment calling for 5 million deposits and loans to be included in the Guarantee Fund for micro and small enterprises, which have suffered greatly. There is also an amendment which calls for the possibility of reimbursement of the decrease in turnover to be postponed to 30 April - and not to the entry into force of the decree-law. Why such a date? Only that day, in fact, the road that had been blocked in the area of Campasso, under the Morandi bridge, for the risks associated with any further collapses, created the need for everyone to make very long routes. Also on this there was a small request for refreshment for all those who, having to lengthen the journey much, have spent more (so not only for the haulers who were already foreseen in the decree-law previous). These are therefore punctual needs and certainly not ideological flags, studied on real situations and problems that the city of Genoa is experiencing and also the economic demand was very contained. I am therefore here to represent a regret that the citizens of Genoa will continue to experience this discomfort. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u375	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u376	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u377	CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Senator Pinotti, I agree with the problems highlighted in these three amendments, which need further analysis and verification, in particular with regard to the calculation and reduction of turnover. A change in those data and periods of evaluation could also have negative effects, even excluding rather than favouring someone. This is a question that we had already raised at the time of the enactment of the decree-law. Therefore, since this is a subject that certainly requires the verification of the funds still needed, including with the contribution of the extraordinary Commissioner, and since the Commissioner himself in theory could already activate some of these interventions, using the funds and resources that he can save (and I believe that in some activities, as he is doing, he could get a good saving), I would ask you to be prepared to turn these amendments into an agenda, so that the government can take action in the direction you have requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u378	Senator Pinotti, do you accept the Government's request to turn amendments 26.6, 26.7, 26.8 and 26.9 into an agenda? Mr Pinotti (PD). Yes, Mr President, I am in favour of and I turn the amendments into an overall agenda (G26.6), which holds all the issues together. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda G26.6. FAGGI, rapporteur. Mr President, I am in favour of the G26.6. CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the G26.6 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 26.10, tabled by Senator Errani and other senators, identical to Amendment 26.100, tabled by Senators D'Alfonso and Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 26.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 26.0.1, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 26.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 26.0.2 tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 26.0.3 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 26.0.4 (text 3), tabled by the Commissions, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 26,0.110 and 26,0.250 are therefore incorporated. Let us move on to Amendment 26.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 26.0.5, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators, up to the words "2020 and 2021". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 26.0.6 and 26.0.7 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 27 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u379	Mr President, I am calling for a withdrawal or otherwise I am against Amendments Nos 27,0.1 and 27,0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u380	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u381	Let us move on to amendment 27.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 27.0.1, tabled by Senator De Siano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 27.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u382	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u383	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u384	LONARDO (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a special appeal for the missing purifier in the city of Benevento. I would like to remind this House that we pay EUR 100,000 a day of infringement with Europe and that it would therefore perhaps be appropriate to pay attention to the cities which, as in the case of the city of Benevento, do not yet have a purifier. In fact, the Minister Costa, receiving in his offices a delegation of the Municipality of Benevento, present also the commissioner of Government Rolle, has undertaken to allocate the sum of 20 million euros. It is clear that, until now, this money has not arrived and even today I understand that it will not come. The appeal may not be forthcoming, but I wanted this House and those outside this House to know what this Government is putting into practice. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u385	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 27.0.2, tabled by Senator Lonardo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 28 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u386	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments Nos 28.1 (text 2), 28,500, 28.7 (text 3) and 28,0.3. I am against all the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u387	Mr President, the opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur. However, I would like to ask whether text 4 of Amendment 28.7 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u388	No, Mr Undersecretary, at the moment the Presidency has only one text 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u389	CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, on this amendment the opinion is in favour, subject to reformulation, namely a text 4. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u390	Senator Pharaoh, I invite you to lower your tones! CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, the proposed amendment is to expunge the words 'N' in point (c). In this text 4, the opinion on Amendment 28.7 is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u391	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 28.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 28.2 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 28.3 tabled by Senator Margiotta, identical to Amendment 28.4 tabled by Senator Ferro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 28.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 28.5, tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 28.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 28.6 tabled by Senator Ferro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 28,500, tabled by the Commissions meeting, which fulfils a condition laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 28.8 and 28.9 have been withdrawn. I would like to ask Senator Pesco whether the 5th Commission has identified impervious profiles on Amendment 28.7 (text 4), in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. PESCO (M5S). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.7 (text 4), tabled by Senator Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 28.10 to 28.14 are unacceptable. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 28.0.3, tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 29.0.1. is therefore precluded. We move on to amendment 28.0.850 tabled by the rapporteurs, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Mrs Faggi, if she insists on her vote. FAGGI, rapporteur. No, Mr President, we withdraw him. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. (The sitting was suspended at 8.10 p.m. and resumed at 8.38 p.m.) We resume the examination of the proposed amendments to Article 22 of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views. I would remind you that on Amendment No 22,900 there is a favourable opinion of the 5th Commission subject to reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u392	Mr President, I am opposed to Amendment 22,900 (text 2)/100 and to Amendment 22,900 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u393	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u394	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22,900 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22,900 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteurs, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the proposed amendments to Article 23 of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to speak. On amendment 23.22, which has become text 4 as a result of the rewording of the Government, there is also the favourable opinion of the Budget Commission conditional on the addition of the formulas: "without payment of any kind of compensation or reimbursement by the public administration" and: "with charges borne by them."
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u395	Mr President, I welcome the reworded amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u396	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u397	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.22 (text 5), tabled by the Commissions, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendments Nos 23.0.2 and 23.0.3, on which a rewording had been proposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u398	Mr President, on Amendment No 23.0.2 the opinion is against it. On the rewording of amendment 23.0.3, which was delivered earlier is that in the possession of the Budget Commission and President Pesco, it seems to me that no opinion has yet been given. As the 23.0.3 is an amendment that serves to ensure the functioning of school institutions in earthquake-stricken areas even if there are fewer students than the minimum required to ensure continuity of the class, a subject which I know is widely shared by all political forces, if the Budget Commission and President Pesco are unable to give an opinion or if they fail to do so by tonight, I would ask the Presidency whether it is willing to put it aside for tomorrow morning, as the last amendment, before the beginning of the explanations of vote. Mine is an appeal to this House and a request to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u399	There will certainly be the enthusiasm of the Budget Commission which will have to be convened tonight. I beg Senator Pesco to speak on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u400	All right, we'll do everything we can to do the checks, and we'll give the opinion in the morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u401	Then at some point there will be the final vote. Let us put Amendment 23.0.2 to the vote and tomorrow morning we will see if it will have brought the resources, as well as the Council, to this night.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u402	Let us move on to Amendment 23.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.0.2 tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). If the House agrees unanimously, we shall put Amendment 23.0.3 to the vote before the explanations of vote start tomorrow morning. Sometimes I would urge the contrary, but I rely on your will. We shall now proceed to the examination of amendment x1.1, tabled to the draft conversion law. The opinion of the rapporteurs, since they have signed it, will be in favour, so I would ask the representative of the Government to comment on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u403	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u404	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment x1.1 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us turn to the proposed amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law. I shall concentrate on those on which the opinion has not been given, and in the meantime I shall put to the vote those on which the opinion has been expressed. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to Amendments 4.2, tabled by Senators Martelli and De Petris, and 4.3, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that Amendment 4.6 (text 2) has been turned into an agenda. I ask the speakers and the representative of the Government to confirm that he has been accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u405	Yes, Mr President, the opinion is in favour of acceptance.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u406	Mr President, with regard to the change of this amendment to the agenda, there was a request to include the exclusive reference to the national sections. Therefore, it is good to repeat this at this stage.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u407	I remember it perfectly and confirm it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u408	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u409	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u410	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to make a statement with regard to the agenda that the Government has just accepted, because this completely nullifies the original meaning of the amendment and it is explicitly stated that cross-border crossings involving Switzerland, France (with the FTA) and other countries are not a priority. There remains only the port of Pescara, on which we certainly agree, even if it could serve to go abroad. It is truly an affront to Parliament and to what is being said at this moment all over Italy by the Government in relation to the TAV. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u411	Having been accepted by the Government, the G4.6 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.7 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u412	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u413	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u414	MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, I should like to welcome the work of the rapporteurs and the Government itself in wishing to give an opinion in favour of my amendment, which responds to one of the three problems, from my personal point of view and to the serious PD, underlying the issue of the Commissioners. We are not in itself opposed to the Commissioners, but, as the text is written, we can commission any work. I, like Senator Pichetto Fratin - and Senator Pergreffi knows this, because we spoke about it in the Commission - regret the withdrawal of his amendment; I would have done it myself, along with the whole Group, and we would have voted for it because a number of works were listed in that text, including the TAV, and it seemed to me that it was serious to come out of this House with a clear indication. Amendment 4.7 (text 2), however, helps, because it says that it gives us priorities in determining which works should be used by the Commission, and adds: after the opinion of the parliamentary committees, which, for those who still believe in parliamentary democracy like me, is no small thing. I would therefore like to acknowledge the Government and the Minister, who is often critical, that this time he wanted to accept the amendment. There are still two serious problems: nothing is said about the professional and moral requirements that the Commissioner must have or how he should proceed, but I will talk about this when we come to the vote on 4.27, while, even out of gratitude, I withdraw my signature from Amendment 4.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u415	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.7 (text 2), tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.9, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.10, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.11, tabled by Senator Nencini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask the rapporteurs whether they support Amendment 4.13 (text 2). Mr Santillo, rapporteur. Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Rapporteur, I have a problem: on Amendment 4.13 (text 2) the opinion is in favour, but you also gave a favourable opinion on Amendments 4.15 (text 2) and 4.17, which would be absorbed by Amendment 4.13 (text 2). Mr Santillo, rapporteur. Mr President, the favourable opinion on Amendment 4.13 (text 2) remains and the others are absorbed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.13 (text 2), tabled by Senator Granato and other senators. (The vote was followed). [[Senator Pesco points out that he wants to intervene]] I shall cancel the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u416	Mr President, the opinion of the Budget Committee is not an obstacle to all the remaining amendments, with the exception of proposals 4.42, 4.0.1, others and also amendment 4.13 (text 2). Perhaps there is a refutation and I kindly ask the officials to check it out.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u417	We do not have an opinion against it; it appears that it is not an obstacle to text 2. The opinion is not precluded on several amendments, including amendment 4.13 (text 2). There's his signature on the second page. Yeah, sorry.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u418	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u419	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u420	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, since the rapporteur has given a favourable opinion, as well as on Amendment 4.13 (text 2) on Amendments 4.15 (text 2) and 4.17, I would like to suggest to the rapporteur that the proposers of the amendment should remove the words: 'Autonomous Provinces', thereby transposing both of his opinions. Amendment 4.13 (text 2) remains so except for the deletion of the words: "Autonomous Provinces" as required by amendments 4.15 (text 2) and 4.17.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u421	I agree. The rapporteurs and the representative of the Government gave a favourable opinion on amendment 4.13 (text 3). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.13 (text 3), tabled by Senator Granato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.12, 4.18, 4.19 and 4.20 are therefore excluded and amendments 4,800, 4,16, 4,15 (text 2) and 4,17 are incorporated. Amendment 4.14 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.21 (text 2), tabled by Senator Castaldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.22, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.23, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On Amendment 4.530 there is a call for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u422	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u423	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u424	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, the opinion has been revised because it is purely legal and, therefore, it is not precluded. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I therefore call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on amendment 4.530.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u425	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u426	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u427	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u428	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u429	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to add the signature, together with Senator Arrigoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u430	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.530, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.24 is not possible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.25, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.26, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,27.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u431	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u432	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u433	MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, I had announced that I would speak on Amendment 4,27. I find it absolutely serious that Article 4 (3) states first of all that extraordinary Commissioners may be entitled to assume the functions of contracting station directly. This, in my opinion, is already wrong, because the extraordinary Commissioners should be those who send the works, but not necessarily doing the contracts themselves. Moreover, in the paragraph it is written that they can contract the works in derogation from the laws in force: this frankly seems to me an extreme forcing. Let's be clear, that's what happened for Genoa, but that was an absolute emergency and in the end we all shared that we couldn't wait for the normal times of a race procedure. It cannot be thought that this institute can be used indiscriminately, because, I repeat, the provision does not specify the works on which the institute is to apply. If it is said that the commissioner can in fact assign the work to whom he wants, because this means to operate in derogation from the laws on public contracts, we do an enormity other than criminal, an enormity of which I fear we will all have to repent as a country system, but also falling into a clear contradiction. In fact, if the changes you are making to the code with the measure unblocks yards to our examination are positive, they work and streamline the procedures, why is it necessary that the Commissioner can operate by way of derogation from the same laws that you now say are good, effective and efficient? You make a law and then, at the same time, you say that the Commissioner can go on without using it and without applying it, by way of derogation, in fact choosing intuitu personae, the company that has to do the work. This, in theory, out of 100, 1,000, 2,000 or 3,000 works, because there is neither a roof nor a strict criterion, and without any clarification of how to operate. Frankly, when I first spoke about this in the Commission, I was convinced that in the face of these arguments they all agreed. It is so obvious that this is a devastating twist - I use this term once again - and I expected wisdom from the Government and the rapporteurs. I cannot understand how we can move forward on a matter that can have disastrous effects on our system, on transparency, on honesty and, in the end, on the same quality of the works that are being carried out. I know it is not time for second thoughts, but I really needed to leave these statements to the record, because otherwise it seems that everything goes into cavalry and that we do not realize what we are voting on. And here I can only tell you that when this Pesco said that there was a contrary opinion on amendment 4.13, he had thought: live God! This is because Amendment No 4.13 says that the approval of a project by a Commissioner exceeds anything else that prevents and authorizes, i.e. the archaeological, environmental or anything else. If the Commissioner approves the draft, he will put a point and no one will have to say it again. My guys, put that and that together and you know what you're doing. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u434	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.27, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.28, tabled by Senator Fazzolari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.801.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u435	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u436	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u437	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I can only fully agree with Senator Margiotta's speech. We are now in the end and we have understood that this measure, which is about to become a law, has very little to do with the stated aim of unblocking the yards. It seems more generally to be about loosening the rules of transparency and supervision, underestimating the rigour necessary for authorisations, thus reducing the protection of cultural, environmental and landscape goods, and finally a systematic and unjustified reduction of the role and functions of the National Anti-corruption Authority. This return to the old regime, prior to the procurement code, is supplemented by the exhumation of the extraordinary commissioners. For Christ's sake, there will also be cases in which this is necessary and we have seen it in the case of Genoa. However, given the extent of the powers of derogation granted to Commissioners, it would be at least appropriate, with this amendment, which I consider to be of common sense, to provide for the obligation to justify the derogations, in such a way as to allow for possible judicial review by the administrative judiciary, from the point of view of the justification for those measures. You think that, as has already been said, Article 4 (3) assigns the functions of contracting station to the extraordinary commissioners for the execution of the planned interventions. Extraordinary Commissioners therefore derogate from the statutory provisions on public contracts and in this area only compliance with the provisions of the Anti-Mafia Laws Code and the prevention measures is ensured. Once again, I would ask you to consider the scope of the powers which derogate from the legal provisions on public contracts. So I think it is common sense at least to impose the justification for the derogations from the laws: let us make an extraordinary commissioner outlaw. This amendment merely introduces the obligation to state reasons. Moreover, I must point out that the opinion given by the Commission to the draft law that we are examining, as shown in the summary report of 9 May 2019, contains precisely this report to the relevant Commissions, which, however, have not taken account of it. I would expect for consistency a vote in favour at least of the members of the Justice Commission, who voted for that opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u438	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.801 tabled by Senator Grasso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.29 (text 2), tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.30 (text 3), tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,500, tabled by the Commissions meeting, which fulfils a condition laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.31, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.31, tabled by Senators Margiotta and Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.32, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.32, tabled by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.501 tabled by the Commissions meeting, which fulfils a condition laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 4.850/100.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u439	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u440	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u441	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, this sub-amendment is very simple, but we think it is important. Amendment 4.850 provides that by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, in agreement with a number of parties, the Special Commissioner shall be appointed. Now, among these subjects - and we are very happy - the local authorities have also been included, so the Metropolitan City, the Municipality and the Region (which is not exactly a local authority, but close to them). This is good, but there is a problem: important ministries are involved in this decision (I refer to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism and the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities), but the Ministry and the Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea are missing. This is a paradox, because it is quite clear that as the MOSE is a system for the protection of the lagoon, if there is to be a Minister heard in the appointment of the Commissioner, as well as for any kind of initiative relating to the MOSE, that is the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea. That is why we are calling for this amendment to be incorporated.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u442	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.850/100, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.850/101, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.850/102, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.850/103, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 4.850/104.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u443	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u444	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u445	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, Amendment 4.850/104 also deals with MOSE. In paragraph 6-b, it is written that the establishment of the public structure ceases all competence in the implementation and management of the MOSE system by other bodies. The MOSE has been designed and designed as an integrated system, which not only deals with electromechanical engineering activities, but also operates within a complex ecosystem, where all the elements of the lagoon, even naturally hydraulic, must be taken into account. There are three important companies that have historically conceived, designed, designed and followed all the work (i.e. the consortium Venezia Nuova, Thetis and Comer). With this measure, Mr President, 250 resources would in fact be sent home. In this way not only 250 families would lose their salary (which in itself is quite serious), but the entire MOSE system would lose all that competence, design and ability to manage the work itself and the ordinary and extraordinary maintenance required. Therefore, with two amendments (Mr President, if you agree with me, I would like to make a single speech, focusing on Amendments Nos 4,850/104 and 4,850/105), we would ask that these resources be included in the system, or in any case in this public structure (if there is a new rewording, which I think I have read, of the majority rapporteur, it will be the Commissioner who will be able to make use of the appropriate structures for the sector itself), so that the salaries for 250 families are guaranteed and, even more so, that all that competence is absolutely essential for the ordinary and extraordinary maintenance and management of this system. Mr President, I would like to remind you that if maintenance or management were not to be up to speed, there would be a very serious problem for a city like Venice, its lagoon, its ecosystem and its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u446	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.850/104, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.850/105, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.850.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u447	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u448	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u449	Mr Santillo, rapporteur. Mr President, to the text reworded with the acceptance of the conditions of the Budget Commission, I accept the following corrections. In paragraph 6a, after the words "cultural activities" are inserted, I ask that the words "environment" and the protection of the territory and the sea be inserted. Again in the same paragraph, I ask you to expunge the last period.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u450	Excuse me, rapporteur, but we have just rejected the sub-amendments proposed by Senator Ferrazzi (amendment proposals 4.850/103 and 4.850/104), in which the Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea was proposed again, and now you cannot propose a rewording after the Senate has spoken against it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Mr Santillo, rapporteur. It is a different literal form, Mr President, there is no Minister. Mr Ferrazzi (PD). It's the same. [[Senator Malan's comments.]] What's the difference? Mr Santillo, rapporteur. The way in which the form is described, Mr President. Mr Marcucci (PD). What does that mean? I don't understand. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you give me a text, I can read it. Mr Santillo, rapporteur. We propose to insert it later, without the word "Minister"; before there was, but put in a different position. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Where? Mr Santillo, rapporteur. After the word "cultural." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's start from scratch: can't you send us this reformulation, so we can read it? Mr Santillo, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President, here she is. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since the inclusion of the first point involves an absolutely identical wording, I have the annulment of the vote on amendment 4,850/100 and I again ask the rapporteur for his opinion, asking him to give a favourable opinion, and to the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u451	I am in favour of this, Mr President. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u452	Mr President, I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u453	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.850 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Then, rapporteur, did you propose that the phrase 'The Commissioner' should be expunged from the amendment within three months, etc.? Mr Santillo, rapporteur. That is right, Mr President, the last period of paragraph 6-a. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask the President of the Budget Committee, Senator Pesco, to confirm that he does not oppose this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u454	It does not entail any burden to remove it, Mr President, but it would have been useful to maintain it; therefore, there is nothing to prevent it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u455	At this point, I also cancel the vote on amendment 4.850/101. [[protests from the PD Group]] , tabled by Senator De Petris, who plans to delete the last period of paragraph 6-a of amendment 4.850, and on which at this point I assume there is a favourable opinion of the rapporteur and the Government. Try to verify her, too, Senator de Petris, but I imagine that gives her great satisfaction. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.850 (text 2)/101, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.850 (amendment text 2) tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.851 has been withdrawn. As a result, all its sub-amendments have fallen. Amendment 4.201 is not possible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.33 (text 3), tabled by Senator Campari. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Ferrazzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4.34. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.35, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.35, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.36, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.37, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta, identical to amendment 4.38, tabled by Senator Iannone and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Santillo, do you confirm your favourable opinion on the G4.39 agenda? Mr Santillo, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Is the Government's opinion consistent? Mr SANTANGELO, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G4.39 will not be put to the vote. I call on the rapporteur to comment on amendment 4.852. Mr Santillo, rapporteur. Mr President, I rephrase amendment 4,852, replacing paragraph 7-b, the words '30 million' with the other '10 million'. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Pesco can only be pleased. I would also ask you to comment on Amendment No 4.40, Senator Santillo. Mr Santillo, rapporteur. I understand that it is absorbed by the adoption of amendment 4.30 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u456	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u457	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u458	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, if I have understood correctly, President Pesco (who I consider to be) has made an exception under Article 81 of the Constitution. The rapporteur suddenly reduces the financial burden of his amendment 4,852 from EUR 30 million to EUR 10 million; but the problem of coverage must be reviewed by the Budget Commission, it is not possible to do so by private negotiation. [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD and Mixed Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u459	It was already covered in the first version, Senator Caliendo.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u460	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u461	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u462	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, once again we are perplexed, because this is an amendment which would go precisely in the direction of encouraging projects to build networks and infrastructure and recharge vehicles powered by electricity. These values immediately become unrealizable. With EUR 10 million, of course, we put on a "bread" and do nothing. Therefore, since we have the pleasure of having with us Minister Toninelli, who is one of the supporters of electric cars while traveling on a diesel, I wanted to understand the reason for this reverse also on an amendment that should mark the step towards environmentalism and the lack of pollution. Just today, on World Environment Day, this amendment could have been a symbolic decision. Instead, this is a symbolic decision of the incoherence of this Government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u463	I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.852 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.40 is absorbed by the adoption of amendment 4.30 (text 3). Amendments 4.41 and 4.42 (text 2) have been withdrawn. Amendment 4.43/101 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.43, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.44, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u464	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u465	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u466	LONARDO (FI-BP). Mr President, the time is late and we are tired, but energy is not lacking in order to bring attention to our territories. At Benevento there is a bridge, called the Saint Nicholas Bridge, whose architect is the same one that built the Morandi Bridge. So, in the aftermath of the fall of the bridge, the mayor of Benevento clearly had to close the bridge to traffic. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] We're talking about people here. Have some respect, at least for the victims of the Morandi Bridge. In the aftermath of the fall of the bridge in Genoa, a city to which all our solidarity goes, once again, as well as to the families who have lost so many loved ones, your Minister - the precise fact that I see a bit of hilarity on your part - sent note to all the municipalities, asking to make an X-ray of all the bridges. Therefore, the Municipality of Benevento did a careful X-ray of the Morandi bridge at Benevento, with its analysis of the cost of the funds needed to repair this bridge. A request from the Minister, attention. The City has sent this report, but these funds have never arrived. So what's more right for a senator than to table an amendment to this decree-law? They're telling me he's gonna fail. I, once again, appeal to your sensitivity and I return to the many municipalities in the same situation as Benevento, which has been upset. 120 million euros of debt inherited from the previous management and, consequently, there is no money to do this work. It is obvious that one must be careful of a community, such as that of the Capodimonte district, which is practically cut off from the city if the bridge is closed. I therefore ask you to reconsider. If you don't, be patient: I tried.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u467	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.44, tabled by Senator Lonardo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.853/101 is inadmissible. Senator Santillo, on amendment 4.853/100 you gave a favourable opinion. The rewording of amendment 4.853, requested by the Budget Commission, makes the reference to the sub-amendment disappear and I ask you if you can reword it. Mr Santillo, rapporteur. I'm asking for provision. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pergreffi, with the rewording required for amendment 4.853, the point where sub-amendment 4.853/100 was attached to its first signature is missing. For the time being, we are putting it aside, so that you can reform it so that it can be introduced into the text, because the rapporteur's opinion is in favour. Amendments 4.853/102, 4.853/103, 4.853/104 and 4.853/105 are inadmissible. Amendment 4.853 and 4.45 are provided for. We move on to amendment 4.854, which was previously put aside, on which I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u468	Mr President, I am in favour of rewording the words 'fund' to 'fund' after words.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u469	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u470	We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 4.854 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u471	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u472	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u473	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, I ask the Government and the rapporteurs to think carefully about this amendment. We are in favour of works, even those three that are important to implement the Brenner axis, but it is not understandable for them to be included in a primary rule rather than in the financial plan, as has always been the case. Those three works are also currently in the concession expired in April 2014, in the part relating to the financial plan, and have not been completed. Now, with a primary standard, they enter the territory in a rather invasive way. In the protocol of understanding that had been made between the Ministry, the A22 and the associates in January 2016 had been inserted - I refer in particular to the interporto of Isola della Scala, in the Province of Verona - an agreement in order to realize this interporto with another already existing in the city of Verona, first interporto in Europe. First, an agreement had to be studied to avoid competition between interporti 20 kilometers away and, secondly, the sustainability of an interporto that should be born in a locality where the infrastructures are those of the provincial roads to two lanes. So let's imagine that the trucks leave the A22 Nogarole-Rocca and go to hundreds, if not thousands, to Isola della Scala in narrow streets with two lanes. No other commitments on the A22 dealership. The question is, what do we unlock? They have not been able to do so so far because there has never been, on the territory, the necessary sharing. Now, if we insert these works in the primary norm, these will come in an invasive way within the competence of the Municipality, the Province and the Chamber of Commerce of Verona, that they are the owners of the public interporto that would be damaged from that of Isola della Scala. I therefore ask the rapporteurs and the government to reflect on why there is no need for this. It would have made sense in the original formulation: the State took the fund and at least saved the works charged to it. But now? [[Applause from Senator Ferrazzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u474	I would ask for a moment's attention from the rapporteur: if you change, as requested, amendment 4.854, this amendment becomes the same as the 4.430 signed by Senator Conzatti, on which the 5th standing committee has expressed opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Santillo, rapporteur. I'm asking for provision. [[Ironic applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from the PD Group]] Senator Pesco, the proposal for a rewording made by the rapporteur - after which we deal with the other aspects, but let us at least consider the technical aspect - leads to a text that would be identical to the amendment, which you find in the attached file, signed by Senator Conzatti and on which your Commission had expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81. PESCO (M5S). Mr President, there is a need for verification.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u475	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u476	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u477	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, it seems to me that continuing in this way is enough to use a complicated euphemism. MALAN (FI-BP). It's therapeutic. Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Since we have to set aside again, let us reprogram the work: let us meet tomorrow at 9 a.m. and then we will finish the measure and then make the explanations of vote. But voting like that, free of charge, as Totò would say, is not the best thing.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u478	Since we have put aside Senator Verducci's amendment, we can also make another provision. However, I would ask the rapporteur to re-evaluate the matter in relation to the text. The rest of the work, however, we finish it. Mr Santillo, rapporteur. Let's set it up, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have the provision for amendments 4.854 (text 2) and 4.430. [[Comments of Senator Conzatti]] Senator Conzatti, aren't you happy if we put him down? Senator Pesco told us that he is not able to change the opinion at the moment, which is contrary. So if it goes wrong, he'll confirm it tomorrow, but maybe he'll revisit his position.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u479	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u480	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u481	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Mr President, I rise to reassure the 5th Commission, which will have to work tonight, that my amendment is covered because it is covered by the fund for the renewal of the railway infrastructure in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u482	But you don't have to tell me. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.855 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 4.855 (text 2/101).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u483	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u484	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u485	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, these are sub-amendments to amendment 4.855 (text 2). I would first of all like to understand how this was included, because it was only partially accepted. During last week's debate, this amendment was presented to me by some of my colleagues as an ad personam amendment; reading it I realized that it was not ad personam, but that it was aimed at a special category: it is a photographic measure or provision, because it carries out an activity of protection of certain specific interests. If Amendment 4,855 remains, with the only correction of text 2 - good, Senator Margiotta - it becomes useless, Mr President. I asked to speak because in the future I could be accused of being present and voting. How do you get the Italian Parliament to vote on a rule that says that the seriousness of the fault - I believe that each of you knows what is the fault, that is the negligence in behaviour - and any subsequent liability are in any case excluded if the harmful fact derives from decrees that determine the early termination, for any reason, of motorway concession reports, when - if I understand correctly, so the text is modified by the rewording - those decrees are seen and recorded at the Court of Auditors in the preventive control of legitimacy? Mr President, if the Court of Auditors' prior review of legitimacy has established that everything is correct, then how can we think and discuss responsibility? The amendment had to be declared inadmissible, as it is now written. In accordance with the favourable opinion on the legality of the outline of the measure examined, given by the General Notice of the State, it concerned neither more, nor less, a specific interest. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u486	Without prejudice to a part that is different, does not the amendment 4.855 (text 2/101) tabled by Senator Margiotta partly reflect its rewording?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u487	Yes, Mr President, it partly follows the reformulation. We can try to unify them. I therefore give a favourable opinion on amendment 4.855 (text 2/101).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u488	I call on the Government representative to comment on this amendment, as reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u489	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u490	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.855 (text 2/101 (text 2), tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 4.855 (text 2 amended).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u491	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u492	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u493	GRASSI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak quickly with an explanation of vote on the amendment introducing a profile of the protection of the civil servant who is to take a decision to revoke any granting measures. I am referring, in particular, to motorway concessions, just to say the least. Remember that there has been a season in which in this country the supremacy of private action has been supported also in the management of goods and services of public importance. The intervention of the private - it should be remembered - in areas where for structural reasons it is impossible to create a free market creates, in reality, a monopoly regime. Paradigmatic example of the distorted use of private activity is precisely given by the motorway concessions and we all remember that the contracts that have been concluded - and it is a fact that has emerged also in the journalistic field - in the concessionary office contain real vexatory clauses to the detriment of the State. In these cases, the withdrawal of the concession, the resolution of the concessionary relationship is objectively for the benefit of the State, but you also understand that, precisely because of the wording of these contracts, the public officials are reluctant, concerned, intimidated, because they know well that they have on the other side of the large enterprises able, surely, to create a state that we could define as metus, that is, of fear in the action. In order to raise the public official called for in these measures, we have introduced this rule which provides for a prior review of the legality of the Court of Auditors on the official's act, i.e. the act of revocation. There is no legal inconsistency, because the Court of Auditors' review of the legality serves to exempt the official from liability. You are well aware that, despite the review of the legality of the Court of Auditors, although preventive, for the autonomy of judges and judicial orders, it may well be that a judgment of responsibility is reached separately. The public official must be protected, he must be left in a position to act with maximum serenity and this in order to achieve the best public interest. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u494	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u495	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u496	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, this amendment is intended to protect the government's ability to withdraw motorway concessions. There is much to be done in this area, the Minister has talked about it a lot, but I must say that we have seen very little and now the first concrete thing we see is the demand for impunity in certain cases. Senator Caliendo and Senator Grassi in different ways have exposed the various profiles. Senator Caliendo pointed out the usefulness of the measure, but what I say is that in this area, if you want to make order, you should first apply the law and not pass decisions on to officials saying that officials are not punishable. The law says that two years before a motorway concession expires, you have to call the race. There are concessions that have expired for years, the Government has been in office for a year and four days and has done nothing for the expired motorway concessions. On the contrary, one thing he did: while all the other governments by September - and this would also happen last September - published a report on the state of the motorway concessions, the current government, after nine months of delay compared to the slowest of all others, has not yet published anything. So let us not make these useless rules, but let us approve the useful ones. The government doesn't have to do weird things, it has to enforce the law. I have heard so much about legality, but the legality also applies to the Government, it is not that you have to worry about making officials unpunished: we apply the law, Minister (I tell you that you are present). There are concessions that have expired for years; some have requested the in house mode, but also on those no progress has been made, and of the others we have no news. You do not answer questions, and the state, in fact motorists, road users, companies that have to use motorways lose EUR 2 million every day in favour of expired dealers, who in some cases would not like to have expired, but would like to have some certainty for the future, in order to make investments. Let's apply the law, do your duty, Minister. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u497	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.855 (amendment text 2) tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.856 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.857 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.857 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.46 has been turned into an agenda. I invite the speakers and the representative of the Government to speak. Mr Santillo, rapporteur. Mr. President, I'm going back to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u498	Mr President, the Government accepts the agenda after rewording: to assess the appropriateness of, compatible with the technical feasibility and compatible with the needs of public finance.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u499	I ask Senator Damiani if he accepts the request for reformulation that has just been made.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u500	Yes, President, I welcome the reformulation, also because I repeat - and I would like to point out to the Government - that there is already a project, made by the Italian Railway Network, which, however, does not concern the entire section of the railway line, which is 60 km long, but only 20 km long. So, there's already funding. Then there are the cohesion funds that can be used: the Mezzogiorno needs them so much to be modernised and, above all, to modernize important railway routes. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u501	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G4.66 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 4,47 has been withdrawn. We move on to amendment 4.0.850 (text 2)/100, identical to amendment 4.0.850 (text 2)/101, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u502	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u503	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u504	PAGE (FI-BP). Mr President, the subject of these proposals is that of the Gran Sasso tunnel, which has become the honour of the news recently. On the amendment of the rapporteurs - which however provides to intervene with the appointment of a commissioner - have been proposed, heard the President of the Region, and heard the technicians who will have to deal with the matter, a series of sub-amendments that tend essentially to consider the serious, important and imposing problems - because they also compete to the quality of the waters that supply the aqueducts that from Gran Sasso lead up to the entire Teraman coast - with a similar position in relation, for example, to the Morandi bridge. This means that the Commissioner who will have to be appointed to implement the necessary works to make possible all the work on the quality of the waters of Gran Sasso should also be paid and the economic resources should be placed in the best way to be able to do this. We therefore hope that the amendments will be accepted by the majority.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u505	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.850 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, identical to amendment 4.0.850 (text 2)/101, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 4.0.850 (text 2/102, identical to amendment 4.0.850 (text 2/103, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.850 (text 2)/102, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, identical to amendment 4.0.850 (text 2)/103, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 4.0.850 (text 2/104, identical to amendment 4.0.850 (text 2/105, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.850 (text 2), tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, identical to amendment 4.0.850 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.850 (text 2), tabled by Senators Castaldi and Di Girolamo. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u506	We move on to amendment 4.0.850 (text 2/107, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u507	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u508	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u509	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, in view of the favourable opinion expressed on the previous sub-amendment by Senators Castaldi and Di Girolamo, I would have expected that the meaning of our sub-amendment should be considered - and thus understood. It concerns one of the issues on which several times, precisely on the case of the Gran Sasso and also with respect to the old experience of commissioning, there had been a commitment, among other things also reiterated in the discussion within the Abruzzo Region. I am referring to the participation in the information of citizens and, above all, to the involvement of the observatory, which in all these years has put with force all the critical environmental safety of the water basin. The sub-amendment is very simple: it calls for a representative of the observatory to be present in the steering and coordination booth. On the other hand, it addresses another issue and, within this rule on the police station (on which I have the impression that the old roads are already being re-established), it places absolute priority on the safety and protection of the aquifer basin, on the relocation of dangerous substances within the laboratories. This is one of the fundamental issues on which I would also have expected that in the amendment on the special Commissioner of Gran Sasso there would be a trace. The other issue is about resources. There's only 20 plus 100 million here. We all know for a very long time - they have been quantified - that there had been a commitment to at least be posted about 172 million, which were those related to minimum safety to start work. I am very amazed that the part on the observatory and not even the part on the indication of the relocation of dangerous substances within the physics laboratories have not been taken into account at all.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u510	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.850 (text 2/107, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.850 (text 2/108, tabled by Senators Castaldi and Di Girolamo. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Rapporteur, I have sub-amendments 4.0.850 (text 2/109 and 4.0.850 (text 2/110), on which you gave a favourable opinion, but I have the opposite opinion from the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u511	Mr President, we call on the authors to withdraw the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u512	The proposers withdraw the sub-amendments under consideration. We move on to amendment 4.0.850 (text 2/111, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.850 (text 2)/111, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.0.850 (amendment text 2), tabled by the rapporteurs, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.0.1 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.0.3 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.4 (text 4), tabled by Senator L'Abbate and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.0.5 has been withdrawn. We move on to Amendment 4.0.70, which is identical to Amendments 4.0.100 and 4.0.110, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.70, tabled by Senators Ferrazzi and Margiotta, identical to amendments 4.0.100, tabled by Senator Iannone and other Senators, and 4.0.110, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.0.120, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.120, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.102, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0,851 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0,851 (text 2), tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.0,851 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 4.0,853/100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0,853/100, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 4.0.853/101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.853/101, tabled by Senators Margiotta and Ferrazzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.0.853, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u513	Mr President, the opinion is in favour by replacing the words "10 million" with "5 million".
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u514	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u515	Senator Pesco, are you in favour of the change?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u516	Mr President, the opinion supports the amendment because it reduces the burden.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u517	I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.0,853 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Romeo, have you found a solution for amendment 4.853/100?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u518	Mr President, amendment 4.853/100 is withdrawn, because we must vote in accordance with the rewording of the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u519	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.853 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteurs, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.15 is therefore excluded. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law. I would like to inform you that the speeches at the end of the sitting, being an endless sitting, cannot be held.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u520	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-118.ana.u521	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 6 June, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 22 p.m.
