ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on document IV, No 1, which contains: Request for authorization to use telephone conversations of Senator Luigi Cesaro in the context of criminal proceedings pending against him (No 16519/2017 RGNR - No 8701/2017 RG GIP), transmitted by the judge for preliminary investigations at the Naples-Nord Court. He asked the President of the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, Senator Gasparri, to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u5	Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to inform the House of a significant procedural development and, therefore, not so much on the substance of the matter concerning the interception of telephone conversations concerning Senator Cesaro. The Junta - as I will say shortly now - expressed itself months ago in the sense of believing that the acts were to be returned to the judiciary, because, in the opinion of the majority of the Junta, Senator Caesaro was a deputy at the time of the events. Therefore, the question had been raised whether the competence to assess the case was of the current Assembly belonging to Senator Cesaro, precisely the Senate, or the Assembly of the Chamber of Deputies, to which it belonged at the time of the facts investigated and of the request for authorisation. The Junta - I say this too so that it is clear that there has been no inertia - informed the Presidency - as should be done - on 24 January 2019 its report, drawn up by Senator Balboni and approved by a majority. As you know, the Junta is a first place of assessment. Decisions on cases of opinion must be taken by the Assembly. At that point, the President of the Senate Alberti Casellati addressed myself, who had no power over the calendarization in the Chamber - as we all know - to the Conference of the Leaders - and addressed it to me - I shared it with my colleagues in the Junta - a letter from the President of the Fico Chamber, because in the meantime in that branch of Parliament there had been a similar case in relation to another colleague, currently senator and at the time of the parliamentary events. However, the Council of the Chamber made a different and contrary assessment to ours, believing that that case should be dealt with in the Senate, because the colleague is currently senator. So, there was a conflict of interpretation of the rules in force, so the Senate Council held that... [[Brusio]] Excuse me, Mr President, I believe that this matter is important to this House, because it is procedural.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u6	Colleagues, if you want to be aware of what we are discussing, you have to listen, or at least allow those who want to listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u7	I understand that the subject can be tedious, and I will try to be brief, but it concerns the status of Members and other fundamental issues. In conclusion, the House considered, in its Junta, that in cases such as the one under consideration the seat of decision is the one to which the parliamentarians belong at a given time, while the Senate Council considered that it should judge the Assembly to which the parliamentarians belong at the time of the event. Members may wonder what we have done in the meantime. We have had discussions, meetings and there is a correspondence, probably in the records, between our Junta and that of the House. We have met the Junta and met the President of the Junta of the House, Mr Delmastro, but we have not found a solution to an interpretation which the two Juntas have given in a different way. We have extended the debate to the Bureaus - as the Members of the Council know - where all the groups are represented - of course. There was a meeting between the Bureaus of the Chamber and Senate Councils and no solution was found. It is such a complex matter, Mr President, that - if memory does not deceive me - you yourself, as a Member of Parliament, have been the subject of a proposal for a law, and not by chance, because in the past, in your previous parliamentary lives, you have been President of the Assembly for the authorization of the House for a long time and several times. Therefore, since there are precedents in the past of different tenors - we have also gone to see whether there was an orientation or, improperly, a jurisprudence - we have found cases in which the incardination in the House prevailed at the time of the debate and where, on the other hand, it was decided that the debate took place in the Assembly of which the colleague was a member when the event occurred. So, we found different precedents, different opinions, controversial issues. I have quoted President La Russa's proposal for a law to say that a rule would be necessary. The question, at the time, was also examined by the Constitutional Court, but concerning cases of inconvenibility for opinions expressed, and not for cases such as the one under consideration. So, even that precedent may or may not be true, but it was about another matter. It was then discussed on the following point: the case is different if the subject is no longer parliamentary and, subsequently, a request arrives. But if the subject is still a Member of Parliament and belongs to another Assembly, there are those who propose that the case be entrusted to the Assembly belonging to the person concerned, where he can also express his reasons. In short, if we had found a definitive legal solution, the matter would have been resolved; instead, the debate continued. I'll save you quotes and mentions of the correspondences between the president of the Senate Alberti Casellati and the president of the Chamber Figo, who have been donated to us, and the discussions held until a few weeks ago. It will allow me, Mr Grasso, whom I would like to draw attention to, to the fact that, at the last meeting in the Junta on this matter, he himself said that he would make a proposal for a law to settle the matter. Since, however, the legislative proposals, ladies and gentlemen, de iure condensing, no one knows whether and when they will be discussed and approved, we must, however, take decisions, because the matter has, in the meantime, lasted several months. In the state, therefore, we are in a position to have a proposal taken by majority of the Junta that says to entrust the matter to the magistrates, and then to send it to the Chamber, being the Senator Caesaro deputy at the time of the facts. There was also a very strong orientation to return to Junta. MIRABELLI (PD). But let the rapporteur tell us! Gasparri (FI-BP). I can't hear you, Senator Mirabelli. When he intervenes, I'll listen to you better. Also in a letter, the last one I wrote, on June 14, to President Alberti Casellati to inform you of the progress of events - it is not these events that can be dealt with only in terms of oral tradition, but there are acts, reports of meetings of the Councils and meetings between the bodies of the Chamber and Senate, of which, although informal, we tried to leave traces in parliamentary activities - I myself concluded by saying that: In my opinion, it would be appropriate at this point to schedule the document for consideration in this House, in order to enable the House to know the problem and to give an orientation on the matter; or, to the limit, to arrange for the referral of the act to the Junta for further consideration. This is what I wrote to the President of the Senate in June. In August we met but - as you know - for other events. So, rightly, the Conference of Leaders has now set the timetable for this. I wanted to give this information to the House to show that the Junta has worked on this issue, as colleagues know perfectly well. The legal question has precedents of all kinds. There's no such thing as a case law. In de iure terms, those who wish to make proposals will make them and discuss them. We must, however, decide what to do. The rapporteur, Senator Balboni, has put forward a proposal: the hypothesis of a return to Junta for a review and a deepening. We must, in fact, also produce formal acts, and we cannot decide on the basis of common sense or on the sidelines. We are talking about investigations, interceptions, acts of the judiciary, a correspondence between the Presidents of the Assemblies. So I wanted to call my colleagues back on this matter, which, already complicated for us who follow it, I understand is difficult to understand. As we speak of the competence of the Chambers, of the rights of defence and of the judiciary, the point is the following: either to approve a report or to decide to return to the Junta, as I myself overshadowed in the letter to the President of the Senate. It is the House, however, that must take a decision, given that the Junta has done its job, i.e. to take a decision. If that is to be revised, because of the complexity of the legal matters, only the Assembly can do so, possibly with a return to the Junta. I have kept to procedural matters, which are not trivial, because they are based on fundamental principles governed by laws and the Constitution. I wanted to say all this to the House so that a possible return to the Junta could also be explained. This is not a way to defer or prevent decisions, but, if anything, to assume them, also in the light of the whole discussion between the various parliamentary assemblies of the House and the Senate, followed with great attention by the presidency of the Senate and by all other constitutional and institutional bodies responsible for overseeing such procedures. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u8	I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Balboni, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u9	Mr President, the President of the Council, Senator Gasparri, has explained the matter with competence and precision to the House today. My report, to which I refer, does not go into the substance of the request for authorization to use Senator Cesaro's interceptions precisely because in Junta we first examined the exception of incompetence of the Senate raised by the defense of Senator Caesaro. That is the particularity of the issue we are examining today. While in the Verdini case there was a derogation agreement on the basis of an agreement reached between the Chamber and the Senate, but with the consent and, indeed, with the solicitation of the interested party, in this case we are faced with a formal exception raised by the defense of Senator Cesaro. The Council therefore had a duty to enter into the substance of the matter. I come back to my report, but I quote very briefly the reasons why the Junta, by majority, came to the conclusion that it was the Chamber to which the Member belonged at the time of the events. We have reached this conclusion on the basis of Order No 389 of 2007 of the Constitutional Court - at which I am of course referring - from which we can draw specific arguments in favour of the competence of the House of belonging at the time of the events. We have reached this conclusion above all on the basis of the clear judgment no. 252 of 1999 always of the Constitutional Court, about which President Gasparri mentioned earlier. We are always in the context of Article 68 which, in the first paragraph, deals with insincability and, in the second and third paragraphs, with authorization to proceed, arrest, seizure, search and so on. We're always talking about guarantees. Judgment No 252 of 1999 clearly states that jurisdiction lies with the House of Members at the time of the event. In comparison with colleagues in the House, an interpretation of this kind has emerged, which seems somewhat artificial to me, but which seems to me to have met, on the other hand, the consent of a large part of the Senate Council, although, being an informal meeting, we did not vote. The House's colleagues have proposed to us an interpretation, without prejudice to the judgment No 252 of 1999, which I have just mentioned and which cannot be called into question, and the competence of the House of Membership at the moment of the fact with regard to the indistinguishability. There is a precise reason: since it is parliamentary activity, it is clear that only the House of Membership at the time of the event can evaluate the acts carried out by the parliamentarians to identify or not the connection of the declarations with the parliamentary activity, as obviously required by law and jurisprudence. While, with regard to the matter of authorization to proceed, regardless of the will of the person concerned, the interest of the House of Membership at that time would prevail in safeguarding its own plenum and the guarantees of independence and freedom of action and expression of the Member of Parliament. Therefore, it is the best interest of the House of Membership, at the time of the request for authorisation, that would prevail in the cases referred to in the second and third paragraphs. It is a debate that opened in Junta and which could not be concluded, because the debate took place after the vote on my proposal to the Junta, to which I refer. Therefore, in the light of the need to deepen this further interpretation which has been proposed to us, I believe it is appropriate - and I ask the House to say so - for this decision to be referred back to the Council for further consideration. Once the deepening is carried out, if it will end in the sense of accepting the new interpretation proposed by the Junta of the House, at that point we will advance a proposal of merit and not only a preliminary ritual. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u10	Senator Balboni, you were very clear in your exposition. Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, no more than one representative per group may speak on the proposal to refer the document back to the Council for elections and parliamentary immunity for ten minutes. Since no one is asking to speak, we shall proceed to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal to refer the document back to the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u13	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I rise to propose to the House a reversal of the items on the agenda, anticipating the debate from the place where documents are drawn up for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into safety and the exploitation of work and then carrying out the questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u14	I see both common sense in your request, Senator Ferrari. As there are no objections from the House, I shall not vote and I shall of course reverse the items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u15	The next item is the debate on documents XXII, Nos. 4, 7, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24. The rapporteur, Senator Parente, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today on the basis of document XXII, No 24 - as you mentioned - we are debating the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry of the Senate, which is therefore a single chamber, on working conditions in Italy, on exploitation and safety in public and private workplaces. I would point out that this last specification was added with a minority amendment thanks to the work of the Commission. The Commission has examined six other proposals for documents and, once it has established document XXII, No 24, as the basic text, the expression of the current parliamentary majority, has nevertheless developed a fruitful dialectic between the political forces that has arrived at the definition of the text that we are bringing to the House this morning. For this reason, I would like to thank my colleagues and colleagues in the majority and opposition for the work they have done, as well as the offices that have allowed us to get here today. The need and urgency of the Senate institution of the Committee of Inquiry under consideration is also dictated by the fact that all political forces have put forward proposals to this effect. The Commission has therefore found a level playing field because, in any case, it wants to deal with it (from the social, economic, ethical, ideological point of view), the exploitation of labour is unworthy and not compatible with a civil society. The exploitation of work is naturally closely linked to the phenomenon of accidents at work because, where there is no wage and social protection for work, there is clearly also a lack of health and safety for workers and workers. The issue of safety at work has always been in the attention of Parliament since the second legislature (1953-1958), with the establishment of the bicameral committee of inquiry into the conditions of workers, until the 18th legislature, which set up a committee of inquiry into accidents at work. All these experiences throughout our institutional history have been based on the work and experience of previous ones; we also believe that this Commission should take the first steps also from the Commission's reports of the past legislature in order to first recognize the causes of the problem and then find solutions. In particular, Article 1, in accordance with Article 82 of the Constitution and Article 162 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, establishes the Committee of Inquiry; Article 2 regulates its composition, defining it in 20 senators, and stipulates that the Commission is to elect the President, two vice presidents and two senators as secretaries, in its own way. The activities and functioning of the Commission, which may decide to meet in secret, shall be governed by rules of procedure. Article 3 sets out its tasks: the Commission is called upon to ascertain the extent of the exploitation of labour and the presence of children, with particular regard to those from abroad, and the spread of the phenomenon of enterprises controlled directly or indirectly by organised crime; compliance with the rules in the case of contracts and subcontracting, with particular regard to the phenomenon of cooperatives of convenience, business networks and production sites, with particular regard to sensitive sectors such as construction and logistics. Article 5 governs its powers and limits. Article 6 binds the members of the Commission to secrecy. Article 7 establishes the amount of resources. In short, the Commission, which is proposed in this parliamentary term, extends its tasks only to surveys of accidents at work from previous experience. However, we must be firmly aware - ladies and gentlemen - that a death at work - in seven months we had 599, which means three deaths a day - is equivalent to that of a hero at war and the whole country should stop to observe a moment of silence, because when there is a death at work a piece of us all dies. The exploitation at work therefore does not only concern a single person, but represents a social error, because poorly done and poorly controlled work puts the entire community at great risk. On the contrary, through the Commission of Inquiry we propose to increase the culture of work and training in the workplace, in order to prevent accidents and tie working conditions to territories, age and gender. Allow me, Mr President, to quote Enrico Berlinguer, whose contribution as a politician is of course the heritage of our republican history. On this subject, Berlinguer has, in my opinion, uttered extraordinary words, namely that all society must respect the freedoms enshrined in the Constitution, less one: that of exploiting the work of other human beings, because this freedom destroys and renders vain all others. So, Mr President, the Commission is proposing to investigate the pathologies of work, but to say that work is the highest form of freedom, emancipation, personal, family and social growth. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, M5S and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u17	Senator Parente, I think the words with which you concluded your speech are important. I'll ask the government representative if he wants to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u18	Mr President, I do not intend to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u19	We shall now proceed to the vote on the articles of document XXII, No 24. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u22	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, we strongly support the establishment of this Commission, which we believe is very important because it will enable us to take stock of the profound change that is taking place in the world of work, and to understand that these changes have led to situations of extreme difficulty and super-exploitation. At the same time, we will be able to verify the institutional shortcomings of the state and the safety monitoring bodies and we will check the difficulties and gap between the wages of men and women. In essence, we will be able to strategically take stock and then determine - here is the issue - some innovative policies on the whole issue of work, starting from what I consider to be the most important innovation in relation to the ongoing changes. I am referring to the need to redefine levels of guarantee for all types of work, whether employed or self-employed, in order to ensure a new relationship - I think, first of all, to young people and new generations - with work, a fundamental value for what concerns an idea of society and the quality of life. I am also thinking of the need to address one of the most serious problems in this country, such as the demographic crisis. For me the fundamental thing is that from the work of the Commission institution there are indications - and it is therefore important that its institution be decided unanimously - for new concrete labour policies, first of all, of course, with regard to the issue of safety. We are a country in which in recent years the situation of deaths and accidents at work has seriously deteriorated. From this point of view too, it will be essential to build a new government facility and a new way of addressing this issue. In conclusion, all this will be possible - I have already proposed it several times - insofar as we are able to build new industrial relations, a new social pact, a report that is able to restore the sense of bargaining. A new law on employee representation will therefore also be indispensable.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u25	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are wondering why, after a great deal of effort, we are still in a situation where we do not know what our values and objectives are and how we can bridge the gap between real data and fundamental values to which we are inspired. The situation is still very heavy in our country: people leave home and they don't come home anymore. The INAIL data tell us that in 2018 1,133 people died going to work or work. It is unacceptable: it means that three people a day, in Italy, still lose their lives like this today. It is a social responsibility as well as a social, personal drama, an emotional and at the same time economic drama for families. There are people who leave the house to go to work and do not return to the same conditions as they left: they return injured, handicapped, with permanent disability. This also creates devastating physical and moral consequences, sometimes irreversible. We talk about over 600,000 people a year; we talk about 1,700 people a day. And these scary data are just the official ones. We know in fact that in our country there are very important phenomena that are not mapped: we talk about the exploitation of child labour, that in Italy is forbidden but that it is still a widespread and persistent scourge, indeed, growing in the last years of economic crisis. More than 300,000 children from ten to sixteen years of age work, are exploited, are abused, still today in Italy. Another serious, important phenomenon concerns the unemerged economy, irregular work: 3.7 million people still work irregularly in Italy, without rights, in unsafe workplaces. And again, perhaps it is a subject not closely related to safety at work, but it is central. I am referring to violence and harassment in the workplace. In June 2019 the Ilo Convention was ratified, which reminded us that Istat data are there to tell us that 1.5 million workers and women looking for work suffer violence. It is a drama that is added to the drama. That is why it is essential to set up the Commission in question, on which we are voting in favour today with great conviction. Our principles are high. We believe that ensuring the dignity of work means having a safe job. We believe that this is a challenge for companies, an epochal change, the new perspective of competitiveness and growth. We also think that more can be done in terms of vigilance and judgment to maintain the certainty of penalties. That is why we want the gap between the real - still very serious - data and the very important values we inspire ourselves to be filled. And the work of the Commission is in this direction. We still need to change the rules, make sure that they are not competing with regional ones, that they are intelligible, clear, precise; that the regulations are also applicable, that there is no difference between what is written in the rules and what is really applicable. We also want to overcome the bureaucratic approach. We need people to be able to work in safe environments. Our goal is not to burden businesses with bureaucracy and merely formal obligations. As far as training is concerned, it is primarily related to the culture of enterprise - a culture that sees the value of safety as a competitive challenge - and then to workers to learn safe behaviour in the way and time of their work. Then you need to monitor. We must make sure that we understand this phenomenon, understand it deeply, even with different drivers of analysis to understand how much the phenomenon weighs more according to gender; how much more it weighs according to age. We need to figure it out and figure it out. And one of the fundamental objectives that we have also set ourselves in the budget law is to bring out the very submerged present in Italy that makes us lose revenue, competitiveness and credibility; which also creates a monstrous deficit in terms of irregular work. These are the ambitious goals we want to achieve. That is why the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of this document. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u28	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the European Union every five seconds there is an accident at work and every two hours an accident ends with the death of a worker. 2019, up to now, is recording a possible new increase in accidents compared to 2018, which had already marked an increase of more than 6 percent of "white deaths" compared to the previous year. Last year the claims of fatal accident were - according to INAIL data - 1,218, against 1,148 in 2017 and 1,154 in 2016. But in the first seven months of this year the complaints were 599, 12 more than in the first seven months of the previous year. Outside of the official statistics of INAIL, the report reports in August and September a continuous series of accidents at work with victims: to date already 18 reported cases. On August 7, a man died in Ferrarese for the failure of a belt while installing a weight. On August 9, a bricklayer struck by an iron rod in the province of Bergamo and a worker who was unloading steel beams in Cremona died. On August 14, a worker lost his life crushed by a platform in the province of Bergamo. The same day a woman fell from the fourth floor of a building while she was cleaning glass. On August 16, a worker crashed from a ladder into a logistics company at the gates of Piacenza. On August 17, a worker died in Cosentino on a construction site, stuck with his head between a container and the control cabin. On August 20 - unfortunately the list is still long - a bricklayer crashed from a terrace in the Catania; on the same day in the Riminese a woman died falling from a staircase while she was engaged in the maintenance of a carousel. On August 26 in the eagle a man lost his life crushed by the platform of a heavy vehicle that was repairing. On August 30, in the throbbing, a worker died overwhelmed by meters of land at a construction site. On the same day in Varese a worker was crushed by a roller. On September 4, a construction worker fell from a scaffolding in Latina. On September 11th, in the Catanzarese, a man was crushed by a tractor. On September 12th, four workers drowned in Pavia in a sewage tank. The INAIL data of 2019 say that, in the first seven months of this year, the complaints were 599, 12 more than the first seven months of the previous year (plus 2 percent). From January to July, complaints for fatal cases at work increased in particular (18 more cases), while complaints for fatal cases at work decreased. Agriculture saw an increase of 22 complaints in the first seven months of this year compared with 10 cases less in industry and services, while in the State account there were nine complaints in both periods. Territorial analysis shows an increase in fatal cases only in central and southern Italy: 10 more in the Centre, 15 more in the South and 12 more in the Islands. In the North, however, there is a decrease of two cases in the North-West and 23 in the North-East. At regional level there are the 16 most reported fatal cases in Puglia and 17 in less than Veneto. The gender analysis shows, in the comparison between the first seven months of 2019 and 2018, an opposite trend between the two sexes: 21 more fatal cases for men and nine fewer cases for women. Increased claims of fatal accident for Community and non-EU workers, while among Italians there are six cases less. Multiple accidents, an expression that indicates the events that cause the death of at least two workers, in the first seven months of 2019 were 12 and caused the death of 24 people, mainly on the road. Between January and July last year, however, there were 26 deaths in 10 multiple accidents. A massacre, this, that dishonors the country and that must finally find an answer capable of interrupting it until it blocks it as soon as possible. Our nation, our country can do that. In fact, we have the skills and the will to be able to eradicate the tragedy of the white deaths, which has acquired full visibility in the eyes of the country, definitively losing that connotation of silent massacre, perceived almost as an inevitable tribute to pay for work. The sectors with the highest risk of injury are metalworking, non-metallic mineral processing, woodworking and construction. In the case of fatal accidents, however, the greatest impact is seen in the construction, manufacturing and transport sectors. The difficult emergence of irregular work is one of the greatest problems for a real and effective prevention action. In the Commission, the Brothers of Italy Group, together with colleagues from the Forza Italia and Lega Groups, sought as much as possible collaboration in drafting this measure, keeping a proactive and not obstructive behavior, but as always we were faced with compressed times, no hearing and with a basic text deposited a few days ago. The subject is certainly at our heart and we will work proactively within the Commission for workers and businesses to spread the culture of prevention. We hope that this Commission will work to protect workers and not be used for political exploitation. I say this because in the Commission Senator Laforgia, in our opinion, taken from a nostalgic communist delirium, said that this Commission will be a party and a party. Instead, we will be there to study the phenomenon of accidents at work and to try to find solutions that help stop this massacre. I shall end by asking the President of the Senate to check the progress of the many, perhaps too many committees of inquiry that have been set up to date, because we have the feeling that in some cases, apart from the Commission's institution, nothing else has been done. As far as this is concerned, I announce the positive vote of the Brothers of Italy Group. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u29	Thank you, Senator La Pietra, also for the sad list that is worth more than many arguments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u32	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, 69 are now the editions of the National Day for the Victims of Accidents at Work and after more than half a century of public indignation, institutional commitment and legislative production, the caption accompanying the images of the 8 October anniversary is still a sentence of pain and death. More than 600,000, in fact, were the accidents recorded in 2018 and 1,133 the number of people who did not return home. The work that breaks lives, or slows them down, humiliates them, forces them to take roads often without return, because not only puts them in danger, but steals their will and dignity. This is how much more hateful it can be recorded in a country that wants to call itself civil. The transformation of productive, organizational and market dynamics is carried out according to timing and methods that still find us too slow in the reaction and dangerously inadequate in the strategy. And the multiplier effect due to the economic crisis, globalisation and the cynical side of technological innovation has given the legislator and its good intentions the classic coup d'grace. There is therefore a need to stop chasing tragedies, repositioning and catching up, facing all the problems that concern working conditions in Italy, especially on the mischievous terrain of exploitation and on the minefield of safety. That is why we are proposing - not today - to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry, which does not overlap with the permanent Commission at work and which, on the contrary, completes and continues the work already carried out during the past legislative years by similar bodies. A Commission to step up its efforts, broaden its scope and focus on a number of key areas: training and information for businesses and workers, enforcement controls, coordination between all relevant social and institutional actors and greater use of the deterrent power of sanctions. The Democratic Party first moved on this line, now more than a year and a half ago, and all political forces followed it, demonstrating that the theme collects a cross-cutting interest and sensitivity, which moves consciences beyond membership. Everyone's contributions have been taken into account in the text before the Assembly; seven articles of which number 3 is the one which focuses on the mission of the parliamentary initiative. Article 3 defines the assessment tasks entrusted to the Commission, the areas on which to turn on the spotlight and the folds within which it is necessary to bring the presence of the State or strengthen it. The Commission will have the task of defining the extent of the exploitation of work, paying particular attention to the means of prevention and repression, because knowledge immediately leads to actions and solutions. Particular attention will be paid to minors, especially foreigners, who are the ones most exposed to the risk of falling victim to those who work in lawlessness. In terms of gross illegality, the impact of the phenomenon of companies controlled, directly or indirectly, by organised crime will be measured, without neglecting the grey area represented by the network of sub-contracts, the more complex production sites and cooperatives of convenience. This is an effort that we owe above all to those businesses that know and honor the ethic of work, every day; companies that deserve to operate under conditions of fair competition and to refer to objective criteria to guide their choices and assume their responsibilities. The other macro-segment of the Commission's competence will concern safety, by which the adequacy of the provisions laid down in the case of accidents at work, the size of the latter and their seriousness will end under the magnifying glass, but also occupational diseases, their cost, public and private, their incidence and their prevalence according to the most sensitive variables (I think, for example, the age of the workers concerned). We will also assess the suitability of controls on accident prevention and the repression of illegals, laying the foundations for defining appropriate corrective measures that will not fail to call into question the public administration, where all too often the safety officers are, despite them, having to play the part of the pot of stone between iron pots. I am thinking here of hospitals, schools, public buildings. I now allow myself to read an italics of the daily newspaper "La Stampa", published yesterday in the section "Good Morning Turin", whose title is "Lettere a Vito." So that it never happens again. ""It is fought thanks to Vito". It is the report post of a student of the IIS Marie Curie of Collegno, where in these days some panels of a ceiling and a ceiling have collapsed. Gaia refers to Vito Scafidi, the 17-year-old student who died on November 22, 2008, hit by a cast iron pipe abandoned in the ceiling of his classroom at Darwin High School in Rivoli. "Talk about it, write about it, share it, and all together we make sure that we mobilize everything we can: there must never again be other Vito Scafiadi" (...). It is one of the open letters that will arrive by email or posts on social networks thanks to the campaign of the foundation Welcome to Italy and the fund Vito Scafidi, which is titled "Dear Vito" I write to you. Together with Libera Piemonte and Acmos, students from all over Italy are asked to write to denounce episodes of precarious school security (...). "Vito is the friend who will never become an enemy: an intermediary to tell the fears and complaints of young people to the big ones" explains Cinzia Caggiano, Mother of Scafiadi. The woman has made her son's death a battle: "Because you can't die at school." And the kids followed her." Our vote in favour of the proposal, which bears the signature of my colleague, Mr Tommaso Nannicini, will be voted unanimously. It is a strong choice of intervention and must be taken with foresight. It must be taken with foresight and not with a biased spirit. I repeat: not in partisan spirit. It is a choice that I consider necessary, for the many of us who do not find enough consolation in the only act, albeit noble, to commemorate. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u35	DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are writing a beautiful page and we are doing it mainly thanks to one person, Senator Tiziana Nisini, who dictated the Commission's work line Sorry if I am a little excited, but this act is also born from my will as President of the Commission, as Vice President, at a time of institutional absence by this majority that has not yet decided who will be chairing the 11th Commission. Bringing home such an important result is exciting to me and is above all an act of devotion to the Italian people. I was talking about Senator Nisini. While other senators speak of partisan attitude and proposition, Mrs Nisini said that the League will never obstruct, but in a constructive spirit it will carry forward the provision, because the objective is only one: the safety of workers and not party interests. It is you, Tiziana Nisini, to whom goes the applause of all the workers of Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Seven proposals, one text: very good. It is only regrettable that an amendment by the League, signed by myself and Senator Nisini, on the exploitation of Roma children, as if it were something illegal or obscurantistic. But, it is not, because we all know that reality: the begging of children exploited on the street. We want to remedy this exploitation by protecting these children. However, having specified ethnicity seemed to be an illegal act, while it was simply the recognition of reality. Roma children are exploited and this must be recognized. I have also prepared an intervention with percentages. Then, thinking about my life experience, I decided to do a worker's son surgery. Because I am the son of a worker, I boast of it and am proud of it. Son of peasants, workers and masons. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I read yesterday in the newspaper "Terre Marsicane" (Terre Marsicane), an online newspaper from my home land, that a worker from the Roveto Valley, from San Vincenzo Valle Roveto, my father's country, fell from a scaffolding at the age of sixty-one. Now, I wonder: but a father, a grandfather, at sixty-one years old on a scaffold that we are doing? Elsa Fornero, can you explain this to me? Tell me what a gentleman of that age is doing on a scaffold? This is also the protection and protection of workers. Always talking about my working experiences, someone must take the blame for the famous liberalisations marked Prodi and Bersani, which have produced the breakdown of the working world, especially the airport. We have opened up to procurement and subcontracting, with unfair competition and lower costs, but they affect a very important item: safety courses. A skilled worker, before the liberalisation of Bersani, cost 1,800 euros. Today it costs 800, 1,000 euro less, because security has become a cost to companies, while it must be a fundamental element of development. This is where we have to hack. This is where we have to intervene. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So there are culprits. Let us move forward with this Commission, but someone must also do self-criticism, someone who has turned the world of work into a market, as if workers were beasts. Workers are not beasts. They are the fundamental basis of our society, because work is freedom and security is life. So let us set up this Commission, which I will be the first to vote on, but let us change our cultural attitude. I am referring, for example, to the cultural attitude (and I am sorry that Senator Pharaoh is not here today) of those who rush on boats because there are televisions. I, instead, today invite the senators to the march of the work that will be held on 16 November in Fiumicino in favor of sixty-two workers of the Opel, that they will be fired because the company delocalizes. Sixty-two fathers of the family, of course, don't make a fuss. Sixty-two poor people, who will forgive me for the term, but I met them: they look lost and look like zombies, because they are facing an uncertain future. Family fathers who, as I said, will forgive me the term poor people, who are emotional, by those who, for two years, have been unemployed and have worked, exploited, in cooperatives - which do not have regulation and which we instead have to regulate - at 4 euros per hour. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] He's not talking about an entrepreneur's son. A worker speaks and, therefore, I know this reality well. So, I avoided the percentages and did a Google search. I am talking about the feeling of people who, perhaps, meet our administrators every day, such as Senator Zuliani, who is mayor, or Senator Nisini, who is also councilman. People who do not have a job and who, often and willingly, are told that they have to do that kind of work, what the Italians no longer want to do. But the Italians want to do that job! But they no longer want to be exploited by those who import the new labour, meat for slaughter, cheap labor, the new slaves. For someone, in fact, the immigrant is the new slave who must be exploited at 3 euros per hour! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Then I am told that Italians do not want to do certain jobs! It is not that the Italians do not want to do them, the Italians want to do a job and be paid with the dignity of fathers and mothers of the family! That will serve the Commission. You will have to make it clear that if Italy can receive ten immigrants, it must receive ten and not thirty. And those ten must have the same rights as the Italians and salaries that go beyond 1000 euros and not below 800. Let me tell you one last thing, which struck me, about cleaning cooperatives in an important airport facility in Rome. With the contracts down, the workers would get up at 4 in the morning and leave with the van from Naples to come to work in Fiumicino for very few euros. This happens every day in every Italian Region. We can't let that happen anymore. I want to close the speech with a phrase that I feel a lot about an old socialism that no longer belongs to the left, but to the League, which is the only party of the people: we will go forward with the green of our hope, with the white of our sweat and with the red of our blood. That is why the League will vote in favour of this proposal. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u38	Toffanin (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in October, as has already been mentioned, we are celebrating the ANMIL (National Association of Maimed and Invalid Labour Workers) day dedicated to the victims of work, a time of synthesis and reflection on the proposals and measures put in place by institutions, social partners and citizens, but also, unfortunately, an occasion for exposing data on accidents at work. The data, as we have already heard in this House, are unfortunately real war bulletins and allow me to remember them because there are really many: over 645,000 accidents reported to INAIL in 2019, of which 1,218 are fatal; an average of more than three deaths a day, which is worsening even in the first months of 2019. The issue of labour security is, therefore, one of the priorities to which the institutions must pay attention, bearing in mind the new dynamics of the labour market, subject not only to the fulfilment of the economic crisis that has been going on for years, but also dependent on the introduction of new technologies, the transformations brought about by globalisation, the unfair competitiveness due to foreign markets such as China or procurement and subcontracting, which are characterized by economies of expenditure on downward prices and still by the lack of payments, even unfortunately on the part of the State, the enormous weight of bureaucracy, difficult access to credit, tax taxation that has become unsustainable. It is not just us who say this; it is the entrepreneurs who every day outside this Palace are often forced to delay payments and make choices to the detriment of others, even single-way choices until suicide. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] There are too many cases of employers who have decided to end this rather than having to tell their employees: I can't pay you and your families: I'm ashamed of my debts. Aren't these deaths at work, too? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This was reiterated yesterday by President Buia of the National Construction Association (ANCE), in his annual report during the national assembly and the Government should start listening to all these alarm cries before it is too late. The employers are therefore forced to confront themselves with increasingly oppressive market dynamics that put the company in difficulty and force it to lower its guard even in terms of safety. The establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to investigate the conditions of work in Italy therefore creeps into a particularly sensitive moment for the labour market and for the number of accidents that follow and connects, widening the horizons of its field, to the work of the previous Commissions established in the course of past legislation. The issue of job security and worker protection from all forms of exploitation is a cross-cutting issue which concerns not just one political group but another. While I recall a not easy initial discussion during the Commission's work, due to the closure of the majority (also strong, as my colleagues Mrs La Pietra and Mr De Vecchis have pointed out), I have to admit that at the next stage a comparison was possible which allowed us to accept our proposals, including the enlargement of the Commission's scope to include both private and public workplaces, with clear reference to school and health; a specific attention to those so-called spurious cooperatives, which do not comply with the requirements of Article 45 of the Constitution, which is already the subject of a draft of my own legislation; the obligation to have more reports, in order to allow, even in the course of work, to summarize reflections, allowing measures to be drawn up with corrective measures to prevent accidents and the exploitation of work, not only at the end of the legislature (which we hope might also end earlier). We hope that the work of the Commission of Inquiry will not be considered by employers in the archaic conception of "pre-contractors," especially when it comes to an economic fabric increasingly populated by small and micro-enterprises, where the figure of the entrepreneur is often coinciding with the performer of the benefits. Salvation, the price of the service to which micro-enterprises are subject, oriented only to subsistence (I remember), have caused the dramatic situation we are in, in which work does not protect against poverty and puts the same security at risk. That is why the establishment of the Commission must primarily pursue prevention and not take a pre-trialist approach. Of course, it is necessary to fight with every force the forms of illegality that are expressed in the black work, in the caporalate, in the exploitation of the work (we would miss); we have specifically introduced illegal cooperatives as an area to be investigated. But I would point out that the main deterrent to accidents at work is a true cultural transformation (yes, cultural) through a systematic training and information path that must start from school desks. We need resources, to which the Government must provide timely, to promote knowledge; resources that cannot be decoupled from concrete support in terms of provisions for families or workers who are victims of accidents at work, which must be adapted to the damage suffered, not to add drama to the tragedy. These needs must be taken into account. Only in this way, starting from concrete actions, would the Commission's work become more effective. Forza Italia, always at the side of workers and employers, in the awareness that it is at work that respect for the dignity of the person is based, will work, again in this case, so that the Commission is operational and its constructive action. Forza Italia will therefore vote yes to its institution. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u41	ROMANO (M5S). Mr President, the serious exploitation of work is a widespread phenomenon, which, however, often remains submerged. Most citizens are not aware that products for sale in a supermarket or shop or services offered in a hotel or restaurant can be obtained by subjecting workers to exploitation conditions. The exploitation is widespread in many economic sectors and affects several groups of workers. What these workers often have in common is the fact of being paid a few euros per hour and being forced to work twelve or more hours a day for six or seven days a week, without the right to rest and leave. The exploitation of labour can take various forms: from the most serious abuses, such as slavery, to acts that are not criminal and do not integrate serious examples of exploitation of work, but are not to be underestimated. The exploitation takes place whenever there is a greater or lesser disproportion with respect to the conditions of employment of illegally employed workers which affects, for example, the health and safety of workers and is contrary to human dignity. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] Every worker has the right to sound, safe and dignified working conditions; in other words, he or she is entitled to fair and fair working conditions, as defined by our Constitutional Charter and by other legal rules, in particular with regard to remuneration, working hours, leave, health and safety. It is important to put in place a careful and effective activity to prevent the serious exploitation of work, analysing the risks and monitoring the situations in which this phenomenon occurs. To this end, a committee of parliamentary inquiry on the conditions, safety and exploitation of public and private work is to be set up, with basic guidelines, in line with previous legislation, training and information for workers and businesses, coordination between supervisory bodies and the effectiveness of deterrent action. There can be no tolerance on the subject. There can be no grey areas where the distinction between morally acceptable and unacceptable practices is potentially blurred. It is still necessary to be prepared to carry out more inspections at the workplace, but above all to improve its effectiveness, paying due attention to all risk factors. Monitoring activities should focus on groups with increased risk of exploitation, such as irregularly employed persons, seasonal workers, temporary workers, foreigners and minors, fictitious self-employed workers and workers not directly selected by the undertaking for which they serve, but through recruitment agencies or subcontractors. The supervisory bodies are essential. Clear improvements must be made to workplace inspections; victims must be encouraged to report abuses and cases of exploitation of work to labour inspectorates and law enforcement agencies. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Preventive measures should also be encouraged through the introduction of procedures that prevent the financing of workers' exploiters, as well as more effective systems for the establishment of decent working standards and certified products and services that meet these standards. In this way, consumers are also placed in a position to better assess the risk of buying products obtained under conditions of serious exploitation of work. The existence of a climate of zero tolerance towards the exploitation of work is the first step in defending the social rights and human dignity of all workers. Work is dignity, it is well-being, it is life and it is the task of politics to take every useful step to make this happen in practice. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the entire Movimento 5 Star Group setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the conditions, safety and exploitation of work that can address the serious issues related to this issue without delay. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u42	Colleagues, the explanations of vote have been completed and I am very pleased to point out that all the groups have voted in favour of the establishment of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of document XXII, No 24. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[Applause.]] Consequently, documents XXII, Nos. 4, 7, 20, 21, 22 and 23.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u43	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-00355 on measures to deal with the hydrogeological failure, in particular in the Veneto Region. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u44	Mr President, with regard to the issues raised, the relevant Civil Protection Department reported on the exceptional weather events in the Veneto Region in October 2018. In particular, according to the aforementioned Department on 8 November 2018, the Council of Ministers resolved the state of emergency, providing for a first allocation of 15 million euros for the first urgent interventions to deal with the effects of these events. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u45	Excuse me, Mr. Undersecretary, I'm only disturbing you for a moment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u46	I would pray to those who are not interested in leaving the hemicycle, instead inviting those who remain to pay attention or in any case not to disturb those who want to listen. Please, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Morassut, State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. Thank you, Mr President. Subsequently, in November and December 2018, specific orders were adopted by the head of the Civil Protection Department with which, among other things, the modalities of implementation of the interventions have been regulated, appointing as delegated commissioner the President of the Veneto Region and providing, also, the preparation of a foreground of emergency relief interventions, assistance of the population and emergency security of the territory. Without prejudice to the above, it should be noted that, as regards the prevention and protection of hydrogeological risk in general, a number of steps have been taken to unblock resources and to give citizens and local authorities a single institutional contact point. In this regard, in fact, with Decree-Law No. 86 of 12 July 2018 (one of the first of the current legislature) has been brought back to the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea the competence in the matter of contrast to the hydrogeological failure. In addition, the Italian Protections Plan was launched (the so-called Marshall Plan for countering failure) to secure our territory and mobilise 6.5 billion euros. More specifically, as regards the competence of the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, it should be noted that the following financial allocations have been provided for by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 20 February 2019, from multi-annual funds: the budget fund of the aforementioned Ministry, referred to in article 1, paragraph 995, of the law 28 December 2015, n. 208 (law of stability 2016), which from the year 2018 to the year 2030 provides for a total allocation of 1.796, 1.467.4 million euros from the resources of the so-called "fundone," referred to in article 1, paragraph 140, of the law 11 December 2016, n. 232, made available from the year 2018 to the year 2026; 1.467.4 million euros from the refinancing of the aforementioned "fundone," referred to in article 1 of the law 27 December 2017, n. 205, as amended by Decree-Law 12 July 2018, n. 86. The aforementioned decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 20 February 2019 provides, on the basis of the multiannual resources just mentioned, the preparation of the National Plan for the mitigation of hydrogeological risk, structured in emergency measures, prevention, maintenance and restoration, as well as simplification and strengthening of governance. The same decree provides, for the purpose of a timely start, that the competent administrations prepare and submit to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers - Cabina di regia Strategy Italy, as well as to the CIPE a Plan excerpt 2019 with sectoral lists of projects and infrastructural interventions immediately executable already in 2019, having character of urgency and indeferability. In accordance with the above-mentioned decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, it is also established, for the purpose of the preparation of the above-mentioned Plan, by way of derogation from the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 28 May 2015 (with regard to the identification of the priority criteria for the allocation of resources) and in the mores of the reorganization for the purpose of efficiency of the relative system of ordinary selection and identification of interventions, that the above lists are defined, for regional lists, by the relevant Ministries, through appropriate Conferences of services, on the basis of the needs and proposals of the regions concerned and autonomous Provinces, with the contribution and participation of the commissioners for the emergency, of the extraordinary commissioners for the failure and of the authorities of the district basin. To this end, the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea has communicated the amount of resources available for each Region and the extraordinary commissioners for the failure have transmitted the proposals of interventions candidates for financing for the year 2019. The aforementioned Conferences of services took place from 20 May 2019 until 5 June 2019, with the participation of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, the extraordinary commissioners for the failure, and, where provided, the commissioners for the emergency, as well as the secretaries general of the authorities of the district basin. To the outcome of the same, the Plan has been prepared extract 2019. With particular reference to the Veneto Region, during the Conference of Services held on 21 May 2019, the defendants took note of the proposal of the competent extraordinary commissioner for the failure concerning the list of priority actions to be included in the plan and, having regard to the favourable opinion expressed on the interventions proposed by the District Basin Authority, the list of interventions candidates for financing (in number of 34), for a total amount equal to € 29,966,000. Moreover, with CIPE resolution of 24 July 2019, No. 35 was approved the first phase of the planning exclusive 2019, concerning infrastructure interventions immediately executable already in 2019 of urgency and indefensibility, for the total amount of 315,119,117,19 euros and the actions admitted to financing are identified. With the subsequent ministerial decree of 4 September 2019, n. 255, the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea has assigned to each Region and the Autonomous Province of Bolzano the resources of the Plan removed 2019, for a total amount of 315,119,117,19 euros, as well as a first quota equal to 60 percent of the same, for a total amount of 189,071,470,31 euros. Therefore, the amount of euro 17,979,600,00 has been paid to the Veneto Region. The implementation of the interventions shall be carried out by the Presidents of the Regions as Commissioners of Government against hydrogeological failure with the tasks, modalities, special accounts and powers referred to in Decree-Law No 91 of 2014. In this context is included, moreover, the draft yard-environment law, next discussion, which aims to simplify and accelerate the priority actions for risk mitigation, with forecasts aimed at financing, facilitating and speeding up... PRESIDENT. - The debate is Undersecretary, I am sorry to disturb you, but I would remind you that there is also time to answer questions: it would be five minutes and we are already seven. I therefore call on you to summarise. Mr Morassut, State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. The dialogue with the territories has been preserved and strengthened confirming the Presidents of the Regions as commissioners, supporting them with experts of specific Nuclei operating support and with a technical secretariat of the Ministry of the environment that will monitor the progress of the activities.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u49	CAUSIN (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the Under-Secretary, Roberto Morassut. I am satisfied with the answer because it makes it clear that all institutional procedures as well as all relations with related bodies, which can in some way activate the resources necessary to deal with the disaster that has particularly affected the Alpine arch and the Province of Belluno, have been activated. It seems to me that this is an important act on the part of the previous government and the current government. I would like to take this opportunity to draw the Secretary's attention to the environment, including by appealing to his sensitivity, by offering a suggestion. We are not deceived by the fact that the strong capacity, especially of private individuals, to restore tourist infrastructure in the face of this disaster that has knocked down millions of trees in the Province of Belluno, can make the emergency conclude. There has been a solidarity race in Veneto; private and business activities have taken place, as well as a large number of citizens, and in a few days the infrastructure continuity and above all the ski resorts has been guaranteed. It is also true that Belluno Province is a very delicate Province from the point of view of hydrogeological failure and the felling of millions of trees, compared to the disasters that can happen or even those that are the normal climate cycles that characterize that Province - I think of the snowfalls or intense rains that usually occur during the autumn and winter period - can lead to serious problems. The attention must therefore be extended over time, and we must not only think about the emergency but with a long-medium-term project, including for reforestation, to apply all those measures that can support a very fragile territory from a hydrogeological point of view in terms of safety. I trust in the sensitivity of the Ministry of the Environment on such a delicate subject, also because it is news of a few days - which surprises even a little 'observers - that this atmospheric phenomenon, which has been called exceptional, may not be so. So the depression - Vaia storm renamed it; I don't know why, I'll deepen it - which caused a very strong wind that knocked down millions of trees could also be a phenomenon triggered by climate change. Therefore, I really appeal to the Ministry of the Environment to give the utmost attention to this territory which is very fragile and very delicate, all the more so now that millions of trees have been cut down. I am not here to remember how long it takes for a small fir tree to grow to 50-60 meters; it takes over one hundred or one hundred and fifty years. We therefore need a long-term vision. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u50	Following is the question 3-00503 on the reclamation of the landfill located in contrada Martucci in Conversano, in the province of Bari. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u51	Mr President, the landfill located in the Martucci district, in the countryside of Conversano (Bari), is not included in any infringement procedure, and therefore all acts and documents relating to the site in question relate to matters which do not fall directly within the competence of the Ministry of the Environment. It is specified that the authorisations relating to waste treatment and disposal plants belong to the individual Regions or Provinces, where delegated, as governed by Article 196 of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006 (the environmental code) as well as, in the presence of exceedances of contamination threshold concentrations, it is always the Region or the Province delegated to have the ownership of the activities of safety and reclamation, pursuant to the single environmental text. Without prejudice to this, on the basis of the information provided by the Region of Puglia, it turns out that the vast area of Contrada Martucci is characterized by the presence of several waste disposal and treatment plants, such as the old municipal landfill carried out from 1975 to 1982 and subsequently used from the end of the eighties until 1996, the first lot of the landfill of the company Lombardi ecology, the third lot of the landfill of the company Lombardi ecology (in which the contributions ceased in March 2011, according to the order of the Delegated Commissioner for the environmental emergency), as well as the complex plant managed by the company Project management basin Bari five srl. With regard to the old municipal landfill, the Region has pointed out that work has been carried out on the construction of the fence, movement of land, morphological reconfiguration of the site and regiment of the meteoric waters aimed at the permanent safety of the same. The committed resources amount to EUR 2,207,023,67, while the amounts cleared amount to EUR 1,434,565,39. With regard to lots I and II, with regional resolution n. 2211 of 2019 was deliberated, among other things, to commit the Municipality of Conversano and the ARPA to carry out a survey in order to verify the status of the places and to plan the possible monitoring activities or to identify the necessary works to be carried out, as well as to commit the Ager, today the holder of the contract, to carry out in-depth studies in order to possible active positions of the Lombardi ecology attacked to ensure the management of the percolate and to carry out a reconstruction on how the company involved have evolved. As regards the landfill at the service of the complex plant (vasca A and B), the Region of Puglia has represented its intention to assess favorably what is foreseen in the judgment of 10 May 2018, rendered in the abbreviated judgment, in which it is stated that following the discharge of the tanks and of the landfill will be reserved not to the criminal court but to the control bodies and the competent local authorities to carry out their independent assessments regarding the possible resumption (or beginning) of operation, use and safety in all or part of the tanks A and B, implementing one of the possible technical solutions detailed in the perital report. In addition, with the aforementioned regional resolution n. 2211 of 2019 has been deliberated of: "Impegnare la sezione regionale consenti ambientale a ristartare le lavori del tavolo tecnico che portano il 6 agosto del 2013 a senza dalla procedenza di rinnovazione AIA la tipe di servizio (vasca A e B) dell'impianto complesso sito in Conversano in contrada Martucci" Also according to reports from the Region, with specific reference to the interventions of reclamation and reclamation of the vast area, the Regional Council of Puglia, during the session of approval of the Regional Urban Waste Plan, approved on 15 October 2013 an agenda that committed the regional structures to: "identify the financial resources, quantifiable in 500,000 euros, to be assigned to the municipalities of Conversano, Mola di Bari and Polignano, raising them from the constraints of the Stability Pact, and to take any useful initiative aimed at coordinating all the reconnaissance activities that allow a more detailed knowledge of the environmental data related to soil, subsoil and groundwater in the vast area, that allow the identification of those responsible for the pollution and therefore the start of interventions for the reclamation and the environmental redevelopment of the area according to legal procedures. Consequently, on 22 November 2013, at the Regione Puglia, the Committee for the assessment of the environmental status and the rehabilitation of the vast area Contrada Martucci-Conversano was formally established, consisting of representatives of the municipalities concerned, the Regione Puglia, the Province of Bari, the Department of Prevention of ASL and a representative designated by the environmental associations of the territory. In the context of the activities carried out by the aforementioned Committee, the Region has indicated that, by regional decision of 29 November 2018 it has been decided, among other things, that: The investigations carried out in the framework of the Martucci Committee's work in the broad area and in the framework of the ARPA monitoring activities at the landfill spy wells have not revealed any imminent danger to public health and the environment. In addition, it was decided that: The administrative procedures for the reclamation of contaminated sites do not apply to the state, as there is no evidence of significant surpassing of the contamination thresholds set out in Table 1 of Annex 5, Title V, Part IV of Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006. Therefore, it has been planned to: bring back the activities of investigation on groundwater, limited to the only area of relevance of the landfill of service of the complex plant, to ordinary procedures by the ARPA Puglia; reprogram the residual financial envelope, providing activities consistent with the environmental framework resulting from the surveys carried out to date and ensuring at the same time the economicity of the administrative action; make the municipalities concerned an active part in the activities to be done, aimed at a more detailed knowledge of the environmental state of groundwater, soil and subsoil in the vast area Contrada Martucci. These activities are financed from Chapter 611087 of the regional budget, for a total of more than EUR 326,650. The Puglia Region has evidenced that it is waiting for the formalization from the Municipalities of Conversano, Mola di Bari and Polignano a Mare of a proposal for the use of the aforementioned made available.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u54	THE ABBATE (M5S). In thanking the Undersecretary, I am satisfied with the answer, also because the Apulian territory received an important signal of attention from this Government. However, to testify how necessary it was to question the government on the case of Martucci landfill and how important it is to intervene urgently, I tell you about the vast fire blazed inside the site only a few months ago. On the morning of 1 July a dense column of black smoke rose from the landfill, causing citizens living in the surrounding area a legitimate concern about the quality of air contaminated by the fumes emitted by the burning of waste. Alerted by citizens, firefighters intervened in a difficult attempt to contain the flames and limit the fire. The numerous outbreaks affected some trees along the perimeter of the landfill, which were enveloped by flames. The operations were made complicated not only by the difficult reachability of the site, but also by the danger that the flames would reach any biogas chambers trapped under the insulating sheath, endangering the safety of the operators themselves. A disaster, therefore, announced, since we are talking about a site in state of abandonment, characterized by the criticalities illustrated in my question to the Government, all the more serious because they are linked to constructive deficiencies of the waste disposal plant. In my act of inspection union published in January I already signaled the absence of the fire system in an area at very high risk of combustion, due to the presence of dry weeds throughout the territory of the landfill and surrounding. A disaster that can happen again if we do not intervene in a structural way on the area with measures to secure and reclamation. I want to thank the Apulian spokesmen of the Movimento 5 Stars, who together with the citizens and environmental associations have been dealing with the matter for years, having repeatedly urged the solution in the appropriate fora I therefore thank the Government but, as has been pointed out, this is the first responsibility of the Region and certainly on the territory we will address to it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u55	The following is question 3-00777 on the implementation of penitentiary housing interventions. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u56	Mr President, it must first be considered that the so-called simplification decree, namely Decree-Law No 135 of 14 December 2018, converted into law on 11 February 2019, in order to deal with the emergency of the prison overcrowding and to allow a faster implementation of the current prison building plan, without prejudice to the powers of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, has assigned to the Department of the penitentiary administration (DAP) a series of targeted prerogatives, such as: the carrying out of projects and evaluations for the renovation and maintenance, even extraordinary, of the buildings in government use, as well as for the realization of new prison structures; the management of the relative procedures of custody and training and execution of contracts; the possibility to identify real estate in the availability of the State or of territorial and non-territorial public bodies, in order to enhance them for the realization of prison structures. In this way, the revival of an embryonic project conceived years ago was encouraged, but then stranded over time, as in fruitful collaboration with the State Property Agency and the Ministry of Defence a plan for the acquisition and conversion into prisons of a series of former military complexes, characterized by a modular configuration. This is an initiative that has already produced significant results, as the former barracks Cesare Battisti, adjacent to the former steel works of Bagnoli, and Bixio di Casale Monferrato, have already been conferred on the prison administration for conversion. For the first is imminent the conclusion of the contract with the contractor of the contract for the reclamation of the area and the safety of the buildings of which the real estate complex consists, while for the second is in the phase of award the procedure of trust for the cleaning of the property compendium. In addition, the Barbetti barracks in Grosseto will be transferred to the penitentiary administration and feasibility studies are under way for the conversion of the barracks Capozzi in Bari. To this must be added the allocation of economic resources for the current year, amounting to 13 million euros for investments and 23.6 million euros for ordinary maintenance and repairs. Given these general premises, coming to the specific request made by the interrogators, it refers to the provision that provides, among other things, the approval, within the period of sixty days from the date of entry into force of the decree, of the program of works to be carried out, through decree of the Minister of Justice, adopted in agreement with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, on proposal of the head of the Department of the penitentiary administration. Well, the proposed question is immediately and concretely reflected in the facts, because, in line with the aforementioned legislative provision, the program of the intense activities has been approved already last 15 March, with decree adopted from the Minister of Justice, in agreement with the Ministry of Infrastructures and the transports. These are concrete and tangible signs of the effective and proactive approach of the Ministry of Justice with regard to prison building, in the pursuit of the objective of significantly raising the qualitative and quantitative standards of detention places, also in order to restore conditions of greater dignity and security to both the restricted subjects and those who work there. In the same direction there are many initiatives for the extension of the receptive capacity of existing structures and for the realization of new prison structures, under the direct care of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, some of which already started by the prison plan. It is necessary to acknowledge the completion in 2018, by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, of the three prison pavilions with two hundred places each at the prisons of Parma, Lecce and Trani, started by the prisons plan, while the imminent completion of the two prison pavilions with 200 places at the prisons of Sulmona and Taranto, as well as the completion of the new pavilion in realization at the prison house of Milan "Opera" for an additional 400 detention places. Of the approximately 3,500 places currently unattainable, about one thousand are already included in the procedures and interventions undertaken with the funding of the prison plan and with the subsequent remodulation deliberated by the Joint Committee on Construction. The procedures are being carried out by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport for the search of the area of the new Savona penitentiary institute and the design and realization of new prison structures for 3,500 new places, which would lead to the achievement of a realistic medium-term objective, by 2025, of about 55,000 detention places. To all this, it must be added that an activity has already been carried out to verify the availability of internal areas to the walls of the already active prisons, aimed at the insertion of new modular structures, able to accommodate 120 prisoners each, for an additional 3,000 new total places, to be realized under the direction of this administration, in implementation of article 7 of Decree-Law No 135 of 14 December 2018 on simplification, using the resources to be ensured progressively in the coming years on chapter 7300. The program of the intense activities is approved by the decree of the Ministry of the justice of 15 March 2019, adopted in agreement with the Ministry of infrastructures and the transports and published according to previewed from article 21, paragraph 7, of the legislative decree no. 50 of 2016. Finally, urban planning procedures have already been started for the first four modules (two in Santa Maria Capua Vetere, one in Vigevano and one in Civitavecchia) included in the 2019 financial programme and for another four modules (two in Rovigo and two in Perugia) that will be included in the financial programme 2020, for a total of 960 detention places. The design work, however, defined in a remarkably concentrated time, can be a valid solution for the acquisition, in contained times, of new detention spaces that will represent a further concrete response to the problem of the overcrowding of the prison population.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u59	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, we cannot be satisfied with the answer because, with regard to the overcrowding of prisons, we have seen several prison police officers being attacked in prisons for months, or other attacks. This is due to the fact that, beyond the intentions of the previous Government through the famous decree simplifications, the problems related to prisoners have not actually been resolved with the promised speed. I would like to remind you that today we are faced with 60,000 people and that when there is an overcrowding of 120 percent. The Minister knows very well, because when he came to Perugia for the Eurochocolate he thought of doing a sort of raid - so he called him - at the prison in Capanne, where there has always been a situation of revolt. We think that more than raiding, the Minister should probably question why there is an increase in inmates, especially foreigners, and the fact that predicting nine square meters per person within prisons (where in fact there are two inmates) is causing problems and is a total lack of security for the prison police. We are then of the idea that the forecast included in the simplification decree does not solve the problem of overcrowding of prisons in the required time. On the one hand, therefore, Italy does not respect all the European conventions on dignity and, above all, on the recovery of the people who are in prison, on the other it puts in grave danger the safety of those who do the profession of the prison agent. We see it every day, because at least once a week there is such news. For these reasons, I believe that there is a little too much "fatigue" - and I am euphemistic in the definition - in trying to tackle one of the problems that is actually characteristic of the issue of justice and, in particular, the remedies that must be posed. I say this especially because, when the Minister spoke of the interventions included in the simplification decree, he painted them as salvific; seen and then considered that he did the raid during the chocolate festival, I think that most probably so salvific were not. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u60	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education (Bassi-Burgatti) in Cento (country I have repeatedly visited), in the province of Ferrara, who are attending our work. [[Applause]] I apologise if their visit occurs at the time when the questions are being asked, when the House is not in its plenary session, as is normally the case at other stages.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u61	Questions 3-0092 and 3-00737 on the blocking of the automatic equalization of pensions over the minimum treatment are followed. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the acts of inspection union in question, the honourable Member draws attention to the provisions on the reduction of pension treatment referred to in Article l, paragraphs 260 to 268, of the 2019 Budget Act (Law No 145 of 2018). In advance, it should be specified that the article l, paragraph 260, of the 2019 Budget Law, has provided for a remodulation of the annual revaluation bands of pensions, as clarified by circular INPS no. 44 of March 22, 2019. This circular, moreover, in addition to illustrating the application criteria and the methods of revaluation for the current year, shows that a significant change in the automatic equalisation takes place in fact only in respect of pensions exceeding the minimum INPS by at least five times, in concrete terms remaining imperceptible for the lowest pensions and not relevant for those whose amount is from four to five times the minimum INPS. With regard to the question of the alleged postponement of the balance, which the honourable Member claims potentially detrimental to the right to security of social security benefits, the INPS, which was asked, reports that the application of the new provision required the preparation of a series of operational steps which allowed the new amounts to be paid only in April. Therefore, in relation to the subsequent recovery of the balances for the period January-March, the institution carried out a prior verification of the amounts, in order to assess whether or not a possible breakdown into several tranches would be appropriate, in order to reduce the discomfort to pensioners. As a result of this verification, it was found that recovery in a single solution on the first useful instalment, June 2019. Finally, with regard to the question of the reduction of so-called gold pensions, it was first necessary to quantify the amount of pension payable from January 2019 on the basis of the new equalisation forms. It refers to the INPS that the application of the provision has required an in-depth regulatory process as a result of which circular No 62 of 7 May 2019 was issued. The reduction, therefore, of the pension amount was applied from the June 2019 instalment and the balance for the period, from January to May 2019, was broken down into three equal instalments and was recovered on the monthly amounts of June, July and August 2019. In conclusion, I would like to assure you, in general terms, that it is the Government's firm intention to protect, to the greatest extent possible and with the interventions that will prove to be more appropriate, the pension conditions of all those who have carried out a life of work and sacrifice with commitment and effort. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u65	NANNICINI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary for his reply and clarification. I am satisfied with the Government's response, not without some emotion, because, despite the number of questions from the beginning of the parliamentary term, this is the first time that my question has an answer. I am satisfied with the substance. I would merely point out that there is no escape from anyone who is a March question. Obviously, there was another government and another political phase, and this question had a precise meaning in that context. In November, while taking note of the technical clarifications, the answer leaves on the ground the fact that these clarifications should have come out then, not only for the Senate, but for the pensioners involved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u68	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, Pozza and Umito are two hamlets of the Municipality of Acquasanta Terme, just above Ascoli Piceno. They are a symbol of the Resistance in the Marches and, therefore, of our Republic. On March 11, 1944, a fierce Nazi-fascist reprisal set on fire dozens of peasant houses accused of supporting the partisans. It was a massacre: 42 people died. Among them, Anna, a child of only eleven months old, burned alive in front of her mother's eyes, who could do nothing to save her. On the evening of October 28, just a few steps away from the places of that massacre, sacred places, therefore, for our values and for our democracy, an outrageous demonstration was held for all of us who are here: the celebration of the fascist march on Rome, organized by local representatives of an important party, Brothers of Italy. A provocative act, an insult, Mr President. The city of Ascoli Piceno and its Province are awarded gold medals to military valor for partisan activities, for the heroism of the boys who chose to climb to Colle San Marco, for the heroism of a popular reaction to support antifascism. This is all the more serious if we think that at that evening, where Mussolini's effigies, littoral beams and mottos of the fascist regime, alongside the logo of Brothers of Italy, participated in a good move among institutional representatives, including the mayor of Ascoli Piceno, Fioravanti. I find all this unworthy. Sandro Pertini had to say: Fascism was a crime. I want to remember that the apology of fascism is a crime and being there is incompatible with representing a city, any city, and our republican institutions. Everyone must condemn what has happened for the respect that is due to our community, to those who gave everything, even life, for our freedom. That act is a scar, above all, to our flag, our identity and to many young people who have the right to know and to be able to nourish and cultivate the values of the Resistance, freedom, our democracy and our Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u71	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, twenty-five years ago there was a terrible flood in the lower Piedmont region, which caused 29 deaths in the province of Cuneo alone. It also caused many of them throughout Piedmont (about a hundred). In these days, on the 25th anniversary that will take place at the beginning of next week, cities and countries commemorate those innocent victims fallen between water and mud and the devastating events that bended the provinces of Cuneo, Asti and Alexandria. These are events whose memory is now very vivid, as evidenced by the numerous ceremonies organized by the local communities involved and united since that time in the tragedy. Among the victims in Alba there is also a child of only five years. The task of all of us is not to forget both because these dramas that have devastated a territory from the precarious hydrogeological order do not repeat themselves, both to provide the realities and institutions of the territory resources and tools of prevention. The disaster of 1994, in fact, as the book written by the Cuneo Paola Scola, journalist of the daily newspaper "La Stampa", entitled "More powerful than the flood", in the bookstores of all Italy from tomorrow, was the decisive component for the construction of modern civil protection and the creation of a culture of prevention and coordination of the emergency. Nature in revolt does not forgive, if it has not been treasured by the lesson of twenty-five years ago. We turn a particular thought to a person and his family, Livio Taricco di Narzole, one of the victims, the only one awarded the gold medal on civil merit, as he sacrificed his life to save a stranger stuck in full. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Pisani Giuseppe]] As written in the book's foreword, there is also a force that no calamity can ever take away from us, that of rising up with courage and dignity, transforming the rubble into bricks. It's the end of a new beginning. We pray to the victims and call on the Government and this Parliament to invest in economic and legislative terms in prevention so that such tragedies do not happen again. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u74	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind this House that on 9 November 1989 the Berlin Wall fell, built - I remember this too - on 13 August 1961. It is, therefore, a twenty-eight-year history of a wall dividing East Germany from West Germany in two. On 9 November 1989 the Government of East Germany decided to open the border to West Germany; this closed 28 years of division. You can also see in that fall the fall of communism. The recent desegregation of some NATO archives and also what is contained in the CIA's already public archives give back very interesting evidence, some even heartbreaking, of what led to the division into two of Germany. The Wall has therefore always represented a monument of memory, it has always represented and continues to be the symbol of the division and oppression of the communist regime, of the division into two not only of Germany, but of the whole of Europe. The Wall also caused, beyond the torment of the division, certain deaths; it was calculated that more than 140 Germans were killed in an attempt to cross that border between the West and the East and that other hundreds died indirectly for the same cause. The Wall finally fell under the blows of the desire for freedom of the people of the East. And then the Europe of 9 November became free and able to decide its own destiny and peoples. I conclude, dear President, by saying that this date in our opinion should be remembered at the opening of a session of the Senate, so that the thirty-year anniversary is shared and celebrated; it is not in fact the memory of some or a few, but the memory of all, collective and shared. It would take important institutional initiatives to celebrate this anniversary. Brothers of Italy will make its initiatives throughout the national territory, but these are not initiatives of a part: they must be institutional and shared initiatives, to celebrate this thirty-year anniversary with great significance. [[Applause from Senator Bertacco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u75	Thank you, Senator Rauti. It will be my concern to report and suggest your proposal to the President of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u76	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-161.ana.u77	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 5 November, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed (11:48 p.m.).
