ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u3	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1476. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general discussion and replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government took place. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u4	Mr President, I rise to request that the sitting be suspended until 11 a.m. [[Comments and ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u5	Minister, I see that it is always very much appreciated, even by the opposition. However, I remind the government representative of the proverb that there is no two without three. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We're on the third, so at 11:00, we have to be precise and precise. I suspend the sitting until 11 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.08 a.m. and resumed at 11.06 a.m.) Let us resume our work; I invite colleagues to take their seats. I would like to inform you that during the sitting's suspension time, the Government has tabled an amendment which is entirely a replacement which corresponds to the text approved by the Committees on the merits. In accordance with Rule 161 (3) (b) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency welcomed the amendment and therefore considered it acceptable. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the approval of the amendment entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 1476, of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 101 of 3 September 2019.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u7	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government. In accordance with practice, it sends the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission because, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it informs the Assembly about the financial coverage profiles. I therefore call upon the Conference of Leaders to organise the relevant debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 11.09 a.m. and resumed at 11.19 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u8	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the text of the Decree-Law on labour protection and corporate resolution. For the discussion on trust, the Conference of Leaders divided between the Groups one hour and fifty minutes. So the explanations of vote will begin around 13.10 and the call will take place around 14.30.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u9	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u10	Mr President, yesterday we heard Mr Patuanelli send a clear message to the majority, saying that there is no real industrial plan without steel production within the country. This message is addressed above all to the 17 Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars so-called rebels, but which I call irresponsible, in the light of the amendment tabled by Senator Lezzi, who was, among other things, Minister for the South and therefore should have taken action to protect the South, whereas, with this amendment, it is likely to cause 10,000 workers to lose their jobs. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senator Lezzi]] As a testimony to the fact that within the Movimento 5 Stars and not only within the majority, a fratricidal struggle is taking place, which is leading and has led to all these continuous referrals and which has led today to the vow of trust. This is where we try to understand and explain the situation. The Minister Di Maio has signed together with Conte and the former Minister Toninelli the decree-law, specifying well that, with regard to the current operator of the plant, the conducts put in place in the implementation of the requirements of the environmental plan cannot give rise to criminal or administrative liability of the same kind until the expiration of the term of the plan itself, for the correct and punctual completion of each of the prescriptions. Moreover, by specifying that the reference to such a cause of justification for the illegality - so we explain it well to those who have a predominantly ideological position on the subject of the environment - is motivated by the need to clarify how everything that is put in place in execution of a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers cannot, precisely because these are obligations imposed by a legal norm, give rise to criminal or administrative liability of the agent and consequently cannot result in the subjection of the same subject to sanctioning regimes. However, it remains firm - as we are clear - in any case the liability in criminal, civil and administrative matters which may result from the violation of rules aimed at protecting the health and safety of workers. In short - so we understand, because the documents must be read - it is not a criminal irresponsibility, that is, it is not that we take away the criminal responsibility, it is provided a miniscudo to allow the current administrators to be able to fulfill the plan of environmental recovery: this is the logic of the miniscudo! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is to prevent current managers from going to pay for choices made earlier. When the ban was made and then the administrators arrived, it was clear that a minimum of protection required, but the protection is functional to the prescriptions of the plan, to the reclamation of the area, to the recovery, because, as the unions say, the right to health, which I share (you are right: not only children but not even adults must die), must also be accompanied by the right to work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Otherwise, what is the result of this whole operation? It is that by removing the mini-scude you provide an alibi to the company (as long as in the end it really wants to disengage, as you believe) and for sure there will be no more anyone who will intervene and will do anything, with the risk then of being prosecuted from the criminal point of view for choices that it has not made, but above all to fulfill a prescription made by the President of the Council of Ministers, what is even more serious. Therefore, gentlemen, with your madness - because this is madness, you miss just the theme of the right means - you risk leaving 10,000 workers at home and an induced one that can reach up to 25,000. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] How do you do that? With what face, with what responsibility do you present yourself before the voters? I tell the former minister for South Lezzi: go to the factory and talk to these workers! That's not how problems are solved! Mr Lezzi (M5S). You go to Taranto! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, let Senator Romeo finish that you only have a few seconds. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Senator Lezzi says she's against autonomy. [[Senator Lezzi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u11	Senator Lezzi, let Senator Romeo finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u12	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Bravo Minister! Bravo! Bravo! Maybe that's why they didn't reconfirm it to the government: because it didn't defend the South! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). Bravo! Bravo! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Therefore, we will not consider ourselves to be co-responsible and we also tell the representatives of the PD, because the immunity had provided for Renzi and the Government of the PD: we do not consider ourselves co-responsible for a shameful choice, which puts our country at risk. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u13	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes. Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Happy degrowth! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Can the House be asked to have a proper attitude? [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We are only at the first debate on trust. If we want to proceed and leave it to everyone to intervene, I thank you. On the other hand, it is nothing more and nothing less than what happens in a Senate Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is well founded, with noble intentions, and it ends badly, very badly if we think that we are not yet at the first real measure of this Government and we are already on the trust. The decree-law, which was born with the old government on the assumption of giving solutions to certain categories of workers and giving solutions to the current business crisis, has been modified and distorted by the amending phase, resulting then in the maxi amendment which - I am told - contains all the amendments approved in the Commission, but of which we are going to discover the real contents only now and I have not had the time to look at it. Net of the amendment of the League, at the first signature of Senator Saviane, on the extension for the use of those 500 million euros allocated in budget law 2019 for energy efficiency works in the municipalities, which should have been included in the maxi amendment, nothing is done for the repeal of the discount in invoice of deductions for energy redevelopment and anti-seismic. This was a real solution to the business crises, of small businesses and of the craftsman, who is forced to lose orders because he cannot charge himself with the discount on the invoice by making advance tax reductions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Our Group had tabled an amendment, first signed by Senator Salvini, to solve this problem immediately, recognized cross-border by different political forces and instead no, we postpone, so much our craftsmen can wait, right? On the other hand, this is the line of the new government: you play to make great announcements, but behind them, maybe there was nothing, that all in all is harmless: there is the fraud. I continue to read roboating ads, such as "Reinforcement of Safety at Work." Well, it is a noble intention: will it be incentive measures for companies to increasingly equip themselves with safety devices and equipment? Will this be an advantage for training courses dedicated to small entrepreneurs? No. You allocate and spend 6 million euros to hire 150 labour inspectors, 150 controllers! Congratulations! You've found the right way to make sure! Yes, encouraging the closure of companies. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This, in fact, is your vice: the contrast between public and private, guards and thieves! You have the habit of criminalizing companies and entrepreneurs and vexing them with taxes and leaps of all sorts, but we do not go over the tax decree. Going back to the noble announcements of this Government on the green economy, renewable sources, clean energy, fill your mouth with "gretine" battles and then continue to deny the cumulability of the fiscal facilitation provided by the Tremonti environment with the incentives of the energy account and this especially after, in favor of cumulability, the Council of State has expressed its opinion and the TAR with decisions that have declared illegitimate the work of the energy service manager (GSE). Basically, we want green energy, but we leave it to the madness of the laws they first grant and then take away. But what entrepreneur can invest in such a country that does not give certainties? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr President, I am very concerned about the economic fabric of our country. The judicial and criminalizing drive of this Government towards businesses and entrepreneurs is devastating and repressive. I hope, therefore, that this adventure will end immediately and that we will vote as soon as possible. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u15	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u16	Mr President, within the decree-law under consideration finally comes that very long-awaited measure from many companies in our country, from all over the world of environmentalism, from the most aware citizens: I am referring, of course, to the end of waste, that provision that finally, after so many talks of the previous Government, allows tens, hundreds of companies in our country to use waste as second raw material, as we say. Look, this is a fundamental part of the green new deal, which, in order not to remain just chatter, even label, needs legislation just like this. Last year, in particular with the decision of the Council of State of January 2018, the Council itself recognized a regulatory vacuum in our country and since then the Government has chased a solution. Mr President, in four measures, the previous government tried to find a solution to all this and failed. Meanwhile, the whole circular economy and recycling and a fundamental sector such as raw materials, that is, urban and industrial waste (we speak of millions of tons per year produced only by our country), were blocked. This has created a huge economic problem for companies, which did not have new authorisations, putting in difficulty, among other things, the same companies that had them. In fact, in some cases local authorities have announced to companies that those permits would be withdrawn: thousands of jobs at risk. We are talking about companies that, in this year of vacuum of the previous government, have had higher costs for 1,600 million euros, because the material they stored should either have been landfilled or kept in their home or sent abroad, facilitating, as we know, the dramatic reality of criminal infiltration, often of a mafia nature, in an area that has these illicit margins of gain. I turn to the League, which was in the majority of the previous Government, which should have solved everything in four and four (we have seen that some Region has now tried to speed up): but if you were a year and a half to the Government, friends of the League, you could have solved this issue, yes or no? [[Comments L-SP-PSd'Az]] You tried it in drafts of the law and in the budget law of last year; then you found that solution, wonderful to everyone's opinion, within the decree-law unblocks yards. Too bad that the measure, which should have unblocked the yards, blocked the economy of recycling our country; because this happened. Meanwhile, 56 organizations, representing the entire economic and productive world, from Confindustria, to craftsmen, to all recycling companies, to environmental associations, have urged you to find the solution because we do not have time to lose, because the environment is important, because the economy that transforms is essential, because the green new deal must not be just talk but done, because crime must be stopped, removing water from the pond where it splashes. Well, President, the new majority has shown that the seriousness of the government in governing the country is possible: we locked ourselves in a room and the majority forces of this government have all told their positions, we have put personal or party flags in our pockets and we have found a solution. We have found not a buffer, but a structural solution, which has been appreciated by the whole world of the economy, by the whole green world, by the whole world of waste management, by the whole world fighting against organised crime. This is the seriousness of a government and a majority that can sit around the table and overcome conflicts, which are always there, in the logic of the good of the country. Now, Mr President, what has been decided? What do you see in this amendment who reads it... I would ask Mr De Petris to leave the Minister free to listen. Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Of course, this amendment is a genuine measure, it is very complex and complex because it was a complex issue to be addressed. Well, Mr President, we are happy to be able to say today in this House that, with the vote on the measure under consideration and therefore on the amendment that we have envisaged and which was made precisely by the Government within the maxi amendment, there is the possibility of finally covering this legal vacuum, including in an accomplished institutional and political framework the end of waste, which thus enters into the Italian legal order and thus covers the decision of the Council of State No 1229 of 2018. There is the full transposition of European regulations, in particular Article 6, which are therefore a general framework rule, which also allows our country to have a generic intervention, but within very close and determined constraints from the environmental point of view: it recognizes the authorisation case by case, it gives the Region of course the authorization power, but within a general framework that must be strictly respected; it is without prejudice to the existing authorisations, therefore not compromising an economy, that of the future, which - as I said before - had entered into great fibrillation; it solves the node of simplified procedures, another very complex issue, and of course, downstream, it builds the whole control system. In fact, it is quite clear that we must establish the framework laws and give the regions the opportunity to choose; then, from the national level we do the checks, so it happens if everything that was authorized meets the rules and the laws. Well, an ex post sample control system will be used by ISPRA and ARPA. Finally, Mr President, but not least because of the importance of this amendment, we expect the creation of a national register of authorisations, which serves in the logic not only of uniformity, but also of the benchmark for companies, because it will enable us to know in the North, the South or Central Italy what are the best practices, best practices or innovative companies in a continuous innovation process such as what we are creating. This is a great success for this Government, Mr President. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u17	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I too will make a brief speech on the issue of the end of waste, which is one of the pillars of the circular economy that many people speak out of proportion about. We know that the decision of the Council of State of February last year inflicted an abrupt setback in the transaction from the historical model of linear economy, which presupposes an unlimited supply of raw materials, to that of the circular economy, in which the secondary raw material to be used for the products is the result of the recovery of the refusal, a new model that has seen born in Italy numerous examples of virtuous enterprises. Well, for over a year and a half the Movimento 5 Stars has always said no to the historical amendment of the League and other Groups, presented in various measures (budget law, decree-simplification law and also in this decree-law on the corporate crises), an amendment that, I emphasize, had the sharing of the world of the enterprises and the unanimity of the Conference of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that he has not been given an opinion on this amendment, Mr Ferrazzi. Well, now the Movimento 5 Stars with the new ally, the Democratic Party, perhaps aware that the Ministry of the Environment, to which it only wanted to entrust the release of the authorization, is strongly late on the decrees on the end of waste and that the country is on the eve of an emergency, with the concrete risk of blocking the plants, now therefore, the Movimento 5 Stars finally says yes to the authorisations case by case entrusted to the Regions. But if we had said yes immediately to the League's amendment, would we not have saved ourselves a year and a half of stomachache and over a billion additional costs on households and businesses? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The League, which has at heart the good of the country, therefore welcomes this change of course pentastellated of one hundred and eighty degrees, but what absolutely contests the amendment of the majority approved is the introduction of an ex post control mechanism entrusted to ISPRA, to the regional ARPAs and to the Ministry of the environment, to double regime, farragic and worrying, that moreover risks to be ineffective for the protection of the environment itself and that question - this is shameful - the actions of the Regions, diminished in their role. These are extraordinary controls not just on the pollution side (typical of ARPAs), but of management and operational nature on the plants, which will create organizational problems to the same regional agencies, not to mention the risks of litigation in case of revocation of the authorizations and this is denounced by the same world of the enterprises. These, Mr Moronese (which I do not see in this House), are the reasons that led the League to abstain in the Commission on your amendment. Ours is not a political position, but the result of a sensible reasoning of a political movement, ours, which has always been at the heart of the culture of enterprise [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , and that, contrary to what Mrs Moronese said in general debate, she wants to protect both the environment and businesses, for us born and developed by honest entrepreneurs, who produce wealth and jobs, entrepreneurs who for you, instead, to prejudice, are often considered corruptors, scammers, evaders and polluters. Your absurd decision on Ilva proves this: shame! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] For us, this is demonstrated by the facts and results of the Regions and the hundreds of municipalities where historically the League has been in government for years. I shall start with the conclusions. You will always find the League to support a real circular economy, because for us the circular economy is not an option, but a forced path, an opportunity for the country not only to protect and enhance the environment, but also for the community and for our industry. The circular economy is not pursued with the ideology by babbling only of separate collection or repair of waste, as the mayor Raggi affirms, but with practical series of'end of waste, with the composting plants and the thermovaluers, that must be realized where they lack in many areas of the country, as says the same European directive. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] A circular economy that must not even be hit with absurd taxes, such as the one on plastic, announced by you in the budget law to make 2 billion euros per year of cash: a tax - I stress - not on bad behavior, but on products. It is also crazy that it hits and will also hit recycled plastic products, and that therefore affects recycling, businesses, workers and finally consumers: another madness of your government. This is serious, my colleague, Mr Ferrazzi. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u19	We greet the students of the Institute of Higher Education "Angelo Poliziano" of Rome present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are about to vote on today in this House addresses a central issue for our country, that of work. The social changes that have occurred in recent years, the continuous changes in the labour market in our country, the advent of the gig economy and the emergence of new figures and categories of workers have made no longer possible a regulatory intervention in some sectors of the economy and industrial relations. With this measure, for the first time, we are concerned with restoring dignity to an army of invisible - i.e. the riders, the so-called cyclofactors - forced to work for a few euros and in the absence of the most basic protections provided for in our legal order and the Constitution, which - let us remember - is based on work: the right to remuneration proportionate and sufficient to the quality and quantity of the work carried out, the right to health declined in the form of protection against accidents and occupational diseases, the right to rest, holidays. Rights that are the result of claims and conquests, which must be guaranteed and extended, not denied to workers or insured in watertight compartments. It is not possible to think that the changes in the labour market open up to the far west or to the logic of exploitation tout court, with workers to call if necessary and to be disposed of as if they were a commodity of exchange or perhaps to be employed without any protection. It is certainly not by reducing or compressing the rights that we encourage economic growth: this only increases inequality and discrimination and creates new slaves. Going back to the content of the decree-law, this provision has the merit of giving answers not only to categories of people who remain out of radar, but also to the many disputes still open in our country. I think of the workers in the Sicilian areas where a complex crisis - those of the former FIAT of Termini Imerese or Gela - insists on those of Sardinia and Isernia, in case of integration or mobility by way of derogation. We also look to them when, thanks to a rule contained in the decree, we assure coverage for more than 30 million euros for social shock absorbers or when we allow four South Regions - Basilicata, Calabria, Campania and Puglia - the extension of the conventions and contracts for socially useful workers and workers engaged in public utility activities, without which these Regions could not provide essential services to citizens. And again thanks to our amendment we filled a gap that had been created when in January the compensation to commercial companies in crisis became structural; the terminations of the 2017-2018 two-year period had been excluded. Now this category of self-employed workers, who are now in the limbo of exodus, has also been guaranteed the essential right to a pension. But the measures contained in the decree also look to greater social inclusion. It is no coincidence that a rule also deals with the right of disabled people to work, opening up the possibility for individuals to use voluntary payments to feed the Fund for the right to work for people with disabilities, which was set up in 1999 precisely to encourage the recruitment of people with disabilities. In addition, we will enhance work services by hiring 1,003 competition winners from the National Social Security Institute and ANPAL Services staff. Improving the system of labour policies in our country, allows us to achieve a twofold result: to give answers to workers but also to unemployed citizens or seeking employment, since ANPAL and INPS have new skills, linked to the introduction of citizenship income, a measure of civilization wanted by Movimento 5 Stars to counter inequalities, to support the retraining of staff and the training of workers, with the aim of increasing employment and combating old and new poverty. Work is a right. I repeat this since the beginning of this intervention, and it cannot be sold out to reduce or reduce costs. Today in Italy we continue to die of work and work. For the M5S, the protection of health and safety at work is a priority and I believe it should be a priority for all political forces, because it is a battle of civilization. That is why we welcome the amendment which strengthens the activities of the National Labour Inspectorate by providing for 150 new recruitments. Only by improving the system of controls can we combat the phenomenon of white deaths, which, unfortunately, still today, are a scourge for our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u21	Senator Grimani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u22	Mr President, in this debate on trust we make some positive comments on the measure we are considering, starting with the assessment we are giving first of all on the general system of trust. Each of us can make assessments of certain aspects, but we must safeguard the assessment of the measure in its entirety, starting from the rules relating to the increase of protections for the precarious world of work, which we consider a conquest. During yesterday's debate we expressed some concerns because we would have preferred a single rule, perhaps covering the entire universe of collaborations, we would have preferred a different scheme but we believe that the recognition of greater protection for self-employment is a good step forward and that the recognition of protection for those who do the transport of products and goods through the - the riders - is an important achievement, especially because they are often weak groups of workers and it is therefore our duty, in my opinion, to comply with measures of this nature. This is one of the reasons why this measure must be supported with conviction, together with other rules, which we have already treated and highlighted yesterday, always concerning the world of work. I do not think that the introduction of unemployment benefit for employees is a second step, just as I do not think other rules are, such as the one which provides for the stabilisation of the ANPAL precariousness. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] This is an important achievement, which concerns hundreds of people, who were waiting for this moment with trepidation. This is one of the aspects for which it makes sense to make politics, that is, when we manage to give answers, perhaps even small, but significant and profound from the social point of view. As a Umbrian, I want to reflect. We had proposed an amendment to this measure, which concerned the extension of the so-called heavy pay envelope, which was then transposed by the Government, precisely these days, into a subsequent measure. This is an important result, because we had requested the extension of the so-called heavy pay envelope until 31 December 2019, in order to avoid the 15 October leghold trap, the date by which citizens should have paid the full share of the contributions that had been suspended. On the other hand, the 15 October leghold trap was suspended, giving breath to the people affected by the earthquake, who still have objective difficulties. By the way, in a subsequent measure, the Government has foreseen the reduction of 60% of the amounts to be returned with regard to the suspended taxes of the biennium 2016-2017. This attention, stimulated by an amendment to the measure under consideration, showed that the Government wanted to support it with conviction, also in the recently issued decree-law on the matter. I propose a final reflection on a subject which is stirring up the debate and which concerns Ilva. As we have also pointed out in our reflections during yesterday's sitting, this is an important issue, to which everyone must take responsibility. In this respect, it is quite clear, in my opinion, that we must avoid creating a state-of-the-art climate: Parliament must take responsibility for providing solutions and proposals. The subject of Ilva is heavy, because we are talking about a factory that employs about 10,000 workers. The issue of the protection of work, the issue of environmental protection, which is central and on which Parliament must debate, together with the Government, as Minister Patuanelli said yesterday, is clear, and a more general industrial policy theme, because that plant still provides a significant part of the steel production of our country. Italy cannot give up a third of the production of national steel requirements, because this would mean buying it from abroad, with all the difficulties that this entails, for our country, in terms of economic sustainability. We must therefore take this opportunity to open a real reflection, without dividing ourselves and without creating barricades, which would only move the theme on a field, which would instead divide. We must seek solutions, not build battles, on a central theme for the development of our country's industrial policy. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u23	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here we are at your first decree-law, which happens to coincide with your first question of trust. It was to be expected: disagree as you are, it is better to fight. Was it not you, colleagues in the PD, who challenged every time that, even in a recent past, trust was placed? I forgot: you are the government of the left-left, who preaches well and rockets badly. (at 11.55 p.m.) (Following TEXTOR). As a minority parliamentarians, we have worked to bring solutions to this decree-law, which should be implemented, such as those concerning the corporate crisis and the failure of the tour operator Thomas Cook. In this regard, we had tabled a number of amendments, which have been transformed into agendas, because there are many small Italian companies that will face a situation of serious difficulty, due to the failure to pay the services rendered in summer 2019 and the cancellation of the orders relating to the coming months, in order to meet the related economic commitments. In order to enable these small and medium-sized enterprises to honour their commitments and to face the upcoming winter tourist season, we have put forward proposals that are acceptable to us, such as allowing the thousands of hotel tourist business workers involved in the tour operator's failure to access the Wage Integration Fund. Although it did not need any financial cover, we have been active to identify one in compliance with the rules of the budget. The Wage Integration Fund is already financed by contributions paid by workers and employers and, having to operate in accordance with the principle of balanced budget, cannot provide benefits in short supply; the Fund has considerable resources and has a largely active management, which last recorded a surplus of about EUR 900 million. We had given you solutions not to send into crisis other small enterprises, which are the most important fabric of the Italian economy. But perhaps you are thinking of the next decree saves companies that, like this, will solve nothing at all. I hope that the Government will keep the commitments contained in the approved agendas. Our proposals are: activating support in the form of a tax credit within the de minimis limit; provide for the application of the VAT system in cash to invoices issued when paying the corresponding fees; measures aimed at safeguarding commercial credits through their deductibility in the years 2019 and 2020; protect employees from these companies by using the Wage Integration Fund. In Spain the solution has been found in a week, we procrastinate and create tables, but meanwhile we demand VAT payments that - I remember - expire every 16 of the month. In another amendment it is proposed to abolish the advance in invoice for the work of energy efficiency of buildings and reduction of seismic risk, also transformed into an agenda, which called for the repeal of Article 10 of Decree-Law No 34 of 30 April 2019, which provided that the undertaking performing the work advances to the customer the tax credit in the form of an invoice discount. The financial burden arising from the immediate recognition of the invoice discount cannot be borne by small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the sector, precisely because of the lack of financial liquidity in which there are many micro and small enterprises, aggravated by the decrease of 2.3% of credit to small enterprises in March 2019. Many companies operating in the sector risk closing their doors, with our agendas, we ask the Government, for the umpteenth time, after a question and a bill, to repeal the aforementioned rule. The rule, if not repealed, will represent an extremely penal situation for craftsmen and small entrepreneurs, a valuable category for our territories and for the entire economic system. Since we are talking about the crisis and the economy, one cannot help but think about the upcoming maneuver. The famous letter from the European Commission, addressed to Minister Gualtieri, has also arrived with a request for clarification. Yes, because Europe, which you were winking at, now calls for clarification of your maneuver, a maneuver which, in addition to not complying with the pacts on debt reduction, will penalise much of the Italian economy. We hope that at least you will be able to protect the national interest in the next multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, on which there is still no agreement in the European Union. National interest which, as I have already said in this House, means being able to count on certain funds for agriculture, for the less developed areas of our country and for our businesses, even if from my modest point of view you are doing everything contrary to what can be useful and functional to the growth of our country. You have to reduce taxes and then hit the evaders. We start from the income of citizenship, an unholy measure that has not brought the results hoped for, indeed it has created a paradox: in fact, thanks to the easy gain, the unemployed young people prefer it to work in agriculture and in the tourism sector. Accommodation companies, which have already had enormous difficulties in finding staff in the past season, will also face this problem for the next winter season. But in order to guarantee the work, should we not give solid foundations to those who generate it? No, we don't. We tax companies. As for electronic payments, they will entail 2 billion more costs for small traders, with the obligation to use the POS even for reduced amounts. To resolve it would take a tax credit, otherwise the cost will fall on the final consumer, quantified in about 77 euros per family. But I also think of mountain huts, being a mountain woman, or the small islands, where the Internet will not arrive: will you think of sanctioning these people just because they live in a morphologically disadvantaged area? Objectively we have already made many laws where we ask those who live in the mountains or islands to adapt to those who live in the city and I believe that this is discriminatory for those who live in the territories. Then there are the payments of the public administrations: how can we expect our taxpayers to be on time in payments when the public administration does not pay in due time the debts it has to its suppliers? These are the problems that must be taken into account, because our small entrepreneurs and artisans are lacking liquidity, which, I remember, are the backbone of the Italian economy: we continue to vex them and every day there are small companies that close. Another finding, which I don't know if to find funny or ridiculous, is the lottery of receipts: but shouldn't the State guarantee or worry about fighting ludopathy and therefore the well-being of people? Oh, yeah, we do snack taxes and legalize drugs. We will always be on the side of those who care about honest citizens, entrepreneurs, artisans and all those who contribute to making Italy competitive. I repeat: small enterprises are the backbone of this economy. We also want to fight evasion, but we must have the courage to fight against the big multinationals, to fight against the big giants of the web and not let the little ones die under this harassment, because they are not aphones, but we will give them a voice. They are not children of a lesser God, but they are the strength of this Italian pride: the small enterprise is Italian pride and Forza Italia will always be on their side and will prevent them from being penalized. We will fight and continue to fight for the social fabric of our nation to always be guaranteed even within these classrooms. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Centinario. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u25	Senator Laus is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I think it is appropriate, before making a few comments, to point out that today we are debating and voting on a decree-law that we have inherited. Yes, we inherited it and what we could do, given the times, is a small maintenance operation. It is an inheritance containing urgent measures, the effects of which fall heavily in certain productive sectors and in the private sphere of so many families and people, and the attempt to resolve these problems can solve or upset the lives of the same. We face situations of complex corporate crises, with their employment and industrial production effects, with numerous working tables. He addressed the theme of the old rankings, until he pulled out of the hair, intelligently, the rankings of 2011. Then there is the issue of the National Active Labour Policy Agency (ANPAL) on the stabilisation of the 654 precarious. Mr Tommaso Nannicini rightly and correctly spoke about stabilization, but about the development of resources. Resources that contribute to the central and most important operational tool of our Government: active policies. So, it's a stabilization before the 100 and then the 400. Again, there are measures for riders and those workers who use digital platforms to perform their functions. This is a construction site, not the solution of problems, because it is a matter of monitoring types of work that today do not give us an experience, a knowledge. It was well said yesterday: we are not opposed to multinationals, but we need a balance note between the development of work, the development of enterprise, the multinational and the protection of workers. For this reason, in conclusion, it cannot be the law that regulates the characteristics of working relationships; we put ourselves back to the high sense of responsibility of the trade union organizations, because it is their responsibility to go into the detail of the types of work. Colleagues of the League, we tried to do a little maintenance to your decree-law. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u27	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u28	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to thank my previous colleague, because this maintenance, this great activity, concerns the national territory, but sometimes we forget important our local realities. Let's take a business, for example. When we talk about job protection and corporate crisis resolution, we must not remain in limbo, ephemeral, smoky: let us go on concrete cases. In November 2018, with our fellow Senators of the Piedmont League, we presented a question to the Minister of Economic Development about a non-small company, but a multinational company: the Mahle. We are talking about a company that invoice 13 billion, has 78,000 employees and many production sites, also in our country, two in Piedmont, one in La Loggia and the other in Saluzzo. Well, we had important information that, at that time, almost a year ago, the company would shut down production sites. We have therefore started a parliamentary question; the intercourse did not start immediately. In the April question time, the Minister for Economic Development, as well as the political leader of the Movimento 5 Star Luigi Di Maio - who has now been replaced by the new Minister Patuanelli - said in this House that he had not had any warning signs of crisis, that they would monitor the situation and that, in that context, if problems had arisen, they would have faced them. Today, October 23, 2019, the company will announce the closure of the two plants. When Mr Patuanelli replied to our speeches yesterday, I took two fundamental aspects. First of all, he said that a minister does not want the crisis: we are sure of it, but a minister must first do something to avoid what is already there! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It's crucial. He should have taken the phone and called the top of the multinational to inquire, consistently according to our information: it would have been crucial. Rather than do anything else or spend time fighting, it would have been better to take care of the workers in our country. This is the first aspect. Secondly, Minister Patuanelli, in reference to industrial activity, said that there is no industrial plan in our country. Colleagues, it is each company that makes its own industrial plan: we must support them, believe them and sburocratize them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] 11:08 a.m. (Before Bergesio). We must give strength and energy to this country, with a state friendly to companies, not a state that wants to reward those who do not work, the idlers, the terrorists and the runaways: we want a state that helps companies. I would like to mention another important example: agriculture, about which our former minister Gian Marco Centinario spoke yesterday in his speech. As there are agricultural holdings in crisis, we have tabled four important amendments. I quote one of them all: the reduction of labour costs for crisis supply chains. Let me give you a concrete example. This year - as many people in this House know - the harvest of peaches is not producing results because the fruit and vegetable sector is in crisis. Above all, in particular, the production of fishing costs 25 cents per kilo, 13 cents of which are labour costs. With the amendment that we proposed, the cost of labour would fall by almost four cents. If the farmer were to receive 23 cents today, he would still have earned something, but - even there - he is far from the reality. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We do not understand that there are priorities in the country, as demonstrated by last Saturday's event in Piazza San Giovanni in Rome. Continue this way: we do not share any of your choices, because they are against the will of Italian citizens, against workers and against the protection of work and businesses. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Di Nicola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u30	Mr President, the measure we are examining today marks an innovative and reformist approach on at least two fronts: that of the protection of labour and workers' rights in times of major production crises and precariousness and, on the other hand, that of a new way of producing, compatible with the rules of the market and the rights of citizens to a full protection of the protection of the environment and health (here the reference to the steel complex Ilva in Taranto is obliged). With regard to the first front, it was indeed time for the Government to intervene to deal with the difficulties and, in some cases, the state of social despair in which, due to the changes in the labour market linked to the technological revolution, so many, too many workers were reduced to persons without rights and protection. We therefore welcome the measures for riders, but also for workers with disabilities, who are socially useful and of public benefit, as well as for precarious workers in general. We are talking about basic safeguards so that people can benefit from primary benefits, such as compulsory maternity leave, parental leave, illness and hospitalization. These are issues that a labour-based Republic would have had to resolve for a long time. Today we do so, keeping faith in an ancient promise of the 5 Star Movement, renewed in the electoral campaign and in the parliamentary commitment of these last months. I am not going to list the individual measures contained in the measure, which other colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars have so well analysed in their speeches. All I'm saying is that all those involved - from riders to ANPAL workers, to workers engaged in so-called socially useful jobs, to those thrown into the uncertainty of corporate crises - finally have a response to their needs and respect for their rights. These are the policies that we like and that the citizens ask us: coherent and courageous policies that this majority - I am sure - will achieve in order to solve many other critical issues that Italy is facing. Among these, there is the issue of Taranto and its Ilva, which has become for decades a major economic and employment problem, but - above all - a dramatic environmental and public health issue. I could also mention the data that would well illustrate how this plant is destroying a city and stealing the health and life of too many citizens. Instead, I simply like to refer to the image offered yesterday by Senator Crucioli, who said that in Taranto, when the wind rises, clouds of dust cause birds to fall. I do not want to add more to these words, which alone explain why Ilva should be dealt with with with great clarity and determination. For this I say: well we have done, while the poisons of the plant continue to kill, to erase from our order the shield and the criminal safeguards provided for the company that manages it and its managers. Some say that this discourages investment, especially foreign investment. Well, I want and we want to make it clear: investments that are willing to arrive in our country to make profits and market shares, cannibalizing the health of workers, our elderly, women and children, we do not need. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Instead, we need the efforts that this Government already declares ready to put in place. And, although I think that, because of the emergency health and the difficulties linked to the contraction of the world market but above all European steel (factors that hardly allow us to imagine an economically beneficial future for the plant), although I think - I said - that it deserves great consideration also the hypothesis of a closure of the plant, but I want to grant a further chance - the last hope - to the alternative path of the maintenance of the plant that the Government undertakes to undertake, with precise commitments: to guarantee the activity Ilva in Taranto with the safeguard of the levels of employment also in the induced, to guarantee a conversion in the sign of the decarbonization of the plant, to realize the plan of environmental recovery in order to guarantee the health of the workers and of all the citizens, to develop, through dialogue, a great industrial plan of conversion for a sustainable future and the development of the entire Taranto territory, safeguarding, with the requirements that the economy demands, also all the others that the citizens claim, unfortunately not listened to since time immemorial and now intolerable. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u32	Mr President, just a few minutes, to share with my fellow senators what we said yesterday. Yesterday we went from a moment of exultation and happiness, as regards the part about youth hostels, to the unbelief of tonight. We were really grounded and speechless; we found ourselves having to watch the game and the ballet, first yes, then no, then yes, then no, it's inside, it's outside, it's inside, it's outside. Also this morning, on the media, we noticed that the issue of youth hostels has become almost a political issue, a party issue, with one part of the party (I mean the majority party, within your majority) that says yes to the other, then says no, then maybe says, insert it, let's not insert it. Once again Italy and above all the operators of the sector are forced to attend a Zelig Government, which has a mental confusion that leaves much to be desired. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The Zelig government makes you smile, but it makes us smile, who are here with the popcorn and the bottle of coca-cola waiting for you to go home, but it really scares our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The problem, colleagues, is that the Zelig government doesn't even know what it's talking about when it talks about hostels. The big problem is this: let it be explained, by the spokesman of the Undersecretary Castelli, what are the youth hostels. But since you don't have time, we'll explain it to you. Hostels are a resource at international level and in other countries unlike Italy - you are now proving to be quite embarrassing about this at international level too - they serve and we better explain why. I refer to the famous bill delegation on tourism, which should be the attention of the Senate, since it has already been examined by the House. Moreover, for the second time I am talking about tourism and I say this because yesterday a colleague commented that I never talk about tourism. In that text we talked about accessible tourism, which is not only for people with disabilities, but also for large families and especially for young people, those who benefit from youth hostels [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Therefore the Scandinavian countries, the Nordic countries, finance them, and instead we shut them down, because you have problems within your party. The problem is that you are so messed up that you don't listen to what a gentleman suggested that was a myth, namely, John Trapattini, who said: Don't say cat if you don't have it in your bag. Wait before you comment. Yesterday I did not make press releases because, knowing you, I waited before exulting for this measure. You, on the other hand, filled the news agencies yesterday: Senator Parente di Italia Viva - for example - expressed satisfaction with the positive solution. Great! Nice! Maybe he'll have a line in some newspaper. Senator Lanzi says that they have brought sap to youth tourism; from the government triumphant tones for having solved the problem. Now that you remove that rule from the text, what happens? Do you make a press release to apologize to the Italians or just ignore it? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Even today, ladies and gentlemen, you have shown Italy that the internal problems of Movimento 5 Stars are blocking the country. Gentlemen, youth hostels go beyond the problems of the Movement, because they are serious, unlike the Movimento 5 Stars. You are making the country fail, ladies and gentlemen, from tourism to the steel industry, from hostels to Ilva. Go home! Go home! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. The Senators of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group stand up and display signs bearing the words: "ILVA"]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u33	I call on Parliament's assistants and Senator Commissioner Arrigoni, considering that he is the only one present in this House, to restore order. He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u34	Mr President, I will concentrate quickly on three points, the first of which is of a political nature. Yesterday the majority rapporteur gave us a teacher's lesson saying that this is not an omnibus decree, because all the amendments introducing foreign matters have been dismissed. However, this is already an omnibus measure in itself because it deals with energy production plants, workers' protection and the situation in an industrial plant in South Italy. They are three different subjects, the only common term of which is represented by workers. At this stage, if we want to look for a common word, no measure can then be considered omnibus anymore; therefore, I would like to reject to the sender the lecture on what an omnibus decree is. The second question concerns the fact that I have seen signs bearing the words 'Ilva'. I would like to reassure everyone that the criminal immunity for ArcelorMittal has not been eliminated, nor will it last until September 2023, even with the deletion of Article 14, because the requirements of Decree-Law No 1 of 2015 and No 34 of 2019 remain in force and the consequent decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, which establish the following: instead of having a criminal immunity tout court until 2023, the criminal immunity remains only until the requirements contained in the environmental plan - it is the time-frame of the integrated environmental authorisation: they are not two different things - are implemented. This means that, if the prescription states that I have to set up a battery of agglomeration, I have criminal immunity until I have fixed that battery; when I have fixed the immunity penalty, only for that surgery, it will lapse. The answer is as follows: what would I do with it again, if I can no longer commit a crime when I implement that prescription because I no longer have to implement it? Therefore, be quiet because no one is fired; nothing has changed: until 2023, except for changes, criminal immunity remains. Article 14 is a bit of a way - as I said yesterday - to wash your face and get your hands on in case ArcelorMittal says he wants to leave. It has rightly been mentioned that there will possibly be other decrees. It has been said a little under track, but it has been said because the real problem is that blast furnace 2 is being seized. Ilva - I keep calling it that - in order to be economically competitive it must produce at most and with the stop of blast furnace 2 it will never be, and it is losing more than a million per day. It is therefore unnecessary to say that the sale and production of steel in Europe is not competitive. We knew this even before Indian and Chinese steel cost less and, therefore, even this factory has no reason to stand. Without this part, ArcelorMittal has probably already decided to pack up and leave and is just looking for an escamotage. I am very sad to hear from a government that had to shut down Ilva, that it will try in every way to keep production going. To close on this point and conclude with the last argument, I would like to remind those who talk about the decarbonization of Ilva that is simply impossible, because the laws of physics and chemistry in this universe are those. In order to make cast iron, iron oxides must be reduced and, that is, oxygen must be removed from the chemical bond with iron and, in order to do so, carbon of coal or methane must be used. You can't reduce iron oxides with something else. Translated means that you will continue to emit CO2, maybe a little less using methane, but then you will no longer be able to say that steel is produced at a lower cost because methane costs more than coal. I now come to the youth hostels. A rescue operation has been carried out for a company with public money - I am not saying that it is right or wrong, but I am simply referring to what has been done - turning it into a body governed by public law. When there was the decree that provided for the transformation of the agency for the development of irrigation and land transformation in Puglia, Lucania and Irpinia (Eipli) into a company under private law SpA, the same Government told us that we could not make it a body under public law. Someone should then explain to everyone why it was possible in the case of the Italian Youth Hotels Association (AIG) and it is not possible in the case of water. If you can't make a body under public law, you can't just do it. Instead the water was intentionally placed under the umbrella of a company under private law SpA; it does not matter if it is at public capital. SpA, from company law, is a form of company that aims at the remuneration of capital and not the reinvestment of profit in the improvement of the network. The rescue, therefore, of a private company is already a fact that could create litigation, but then you had to do so also - you still have the possibility to do so - regarding public water; otherwise slogans like "We want public water" you can continue to say it to infinity, but the water will always remain a private factor. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Rojc]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u36	Mr President, I believe that in this House, even those who say otherwise, we have sufficient use of the world to know that a large part of the energy of policy makers from front-row positions is spent in the internal conflict between parties to take precedence over internal rivals. Sometimes, however, the situation gets out of hand and real damage is done in the country. It seems that it is ascribed to this type of political dynamic the amendment that the colleague of the Movimento 5 Stars Lezzi presented to Article 14 of the decree saves enterprises, thus causing to decay the criminal shield that was a substantial part of the agreement between ArcelorMittal and the Government, undersigned from the previous minister Gigino Di Maio, that I believe at this stage is not exactly aligned with the sensibilities of his colleague of party Lezzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u37	Senator, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u38	CANGINI (FI-BP). The consequence - as the trade unions say and I fear that there is some truth - is that this could give ArcelorMittal the reason for moving away from the agreement, thus jeopardising 15,000 jobs; 15,000 jobs put at risk for a competition affair within a political movement seems to me a big, big responsibility. I address my colleagues in the Democratic Party; we know, for world use, that politics is mediation and compromise. But after accepting the income of citizenship, after accepting the 100 quota, after accepting the security decrees that were so much contested, as well as the cut of the parliamentarians, having ratified this amendment and also signed this agreement, simply to justify its presence to the Government indifferent to the fate of 15,000 workers, will it not be a little too much? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciriani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u40	Mr President, the first political measure of the new government comes before the House and confidence is immediately triggered. Unfortunately it was an announced destiny, we are not surprised any more, because the choice to use trust, even if the measure - in my opinion - did not have such complex political profiles, is only the mirror of the enormous difficulties in which the majority is placed. It reflects on the decree-law what is happening outside this Chamber, in Palazzo Chigi, with the meetings that follow each day between the President of the Council and his "allies." The other day, a maneuver was approved in the Council of Ministers, after many discussions, sent to Brussels and the next day there was the competition in the newspapers and on the news to distance themselves from the maneuver itself; everyone defended a piece of the maneuver and each attacked the rest - Zingaretti, Di Maio, Renzi, Boschi - with mutual accusations. The risk of the government jumping from the statements of Minister Franceschini has even been leaked. What we live here, then, is a reflection of what happens outside. President Conte today and yesterday candidly declared that he had not been blackmailed and, saying so, frankly confirmed the fact that the blackmails were there, because they all understood it; the blackmails were there, there are and unfortunately will continue. Coming to the merit of the decree-law in question, which has been defined - I do not know if by the majority or newspapers - the decree saves companies, I believe that, after having judged it, if you had some intellectual honesty to evaluate the effects it will produce, you should call it no longer saves companies, but kills businesses, closes companies, damages companies. You were faced with two, at most three major industrial issues to be resolved: Whirlpool and ex Ilva. Let's forget for a moment the Alitalia, for which there is yet another bridge loan, paid with the contributions of the citizens: again in this case nothing is resolved and it is postponed again from year to year. We all know how the Whirlpool case ended: they did not even wait for the approval of the article contained in this measure that concerned them and turned their backs on the Government, with many greetings to Italy. This should make us think, government gentlemen, about the usefulness and effectiveness of anti-localization measures launched with such emphasis at the beginning of the last government by Minister Di Maio: evidently those measures are of no use. We do not need anti-delocalization measures; we need a national industrial policy, which this government does not even know where it is at home. The Whirlpool then closes and the former Ilva risks to make the same end, after what has happened what we all know, and not because those evil right wingers of Brothers of Italy say it, but because today he wrote it in the main economic newspaper of Italy, "Il Sole 24 ore", a left-wing trade unionist, who says: The government is tearing up the agreements and running away from the businesses. In the last year and a half there has been no resolution of any disputes. And he adds - they are always statements of a trade unionist, not of dangerous right-wing evers - that the repealed rules risk producing a drastic reduction in employment and, at worst, is only the prologue to a disengagement and abandonment of our country by ArcelorMittal. So, if this is the decree-law saves businesses, we're really fresh. Beyond this, however, and the jokes, which are love, I would like to address to the majority and the Government a reflection on the fact, very serious, that here we are discussing not only the seriousness and credibility of the Government, but also those of the country system, which unfortunately go far beyond the image of the Executive. In fact, abroad do not distinguish between Government and Country: if the latter is represented by a bad Government, unfortunately those who pay the consequences is the industrial system in its complexity and in its ability to attract investments and to be credible. But what credibility does the government in office have? The fact of declaring that of Taranto - for example - an industrial site of national interest was not dropped from above, but it was your political decision. The partial immunity to ArcelorMittal against investments was a promise: however, the promises are maintained, if you are serious people; here instead we have a government that promises, writes, cancels, then puts back and revokes again. Then I would like to ask those who have spoken and talked to us about the industrial system, the work and the future in this country, if they would invest only one euro with a partner who behaves in this way, says one thing and then does another. I would also like to ask my colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars, who have told us once again the magnificent and progressive fates that this decree-law opens up for the areas at risk of our country and that have given us what I call the post-ideological package, the big words as environmental conversion or decarbonization and all the other beautiful and wonderful things. I would like to tell you something, however: industrial crises, company budgets and the payment of wages to workers are not made with slogans, words or electoral promises. I believe that many even within the majority feel embarrassed, as certainly was yesterday Minister Patuanelli, who has the attenuating to carry out this task for a few weeks. The embarrassment comes from the fact that here there is an immense vacuum of ideas and proposals on how to get out of the crisis: only great words, words and promises, in the face of results equal to zero. And I believe that the embarrassment also affects the majority colleagues, who may have had the adventure - in my opinion happy - to administer locally their Municipalities and Regions and who know that, in order to save companies, we need a tight, hard and tiring negotiation with the industrial and social counterpart and that there are no easy shortcuts to tell in the meetings, as do Minister Di Maio and those who preceded and accompanied him in this adventure of Government. The question we ask the majority and the government is therefore: what idea do you have to solve the industrial crises that we are talking about today and, more generally, about this country? Using a joke, I'm afraid the ideas are few, but well confused. I ask you what you will give in return to the hundreds of workers of Whirlpool and to the thousands - hopefully not - of the former Ilva: will you send the navigators to their rescue, with the three appropriate proposals of alternative work? Where are the three alternative job proposals for redundant workers, Minister and colleagues of the majority? What was the purpose of citizenship income? In the last year and a half you have explained to us that the problem of this country is the intersection between the demand and the offer of job, and not the absence of the job itself or of industrial perspectives, as well as the fact that the job is not there and that, when there is, it must be protected and, if possible, activated; instead, you have chosen the path of the income of citizenship and there is no other solution. The rapporteur yesterday asked us, perhaps even provocatively, what we would have done in his place: we would have used those resources for a recruitment bonus, to cut the tax wedge and to give young people a perspective of true future and work, not invented or state assistance. You chose instead to hire 6,000 navigators, who will go to the province of Naples and Taranto: what will they tell the despair of the unemployed workers? What serious and credible alternative will they offer? Have you decided to hire a thousand more people and spend 50 million euros to hire INPS to do what? According to Article 5 of the Government's official report, this has been done to implement the new provisions on citizenship income. A thousand other people have been employed in the public service to do this wonder. Since the rapporteur has mentioned that he has been elected, like me, in the North East, I imagine the appallion that we live in factories, in the crafts and commercial activities of the North East, and not only, to the news that they will have to work a few more days to pay also the salaries to the new recruits to the INPS and the navigators, who are absolutely useless. And this happens while the government shrugs in the dark and does not know what fish to catch to solve the problems of our companies. I shall conclude with a reference to our amendments on citizenship income, which have been mocked by the rapporteur as unacceptable and inadmissible because they are outside the field. I would remind the rapporteur that, in Article 5, which I have just mentioned, we speak expressly of citizenship income; that he spoke in his reply for almost half of the time of citizenship income, and that our amendments were absolutely admissible, both because they are already contained in the decree-law and because they may be added, since in this omnibus decree you have also found room to insert an article relating to ski lifts. There was the possibility - and I would like to say this, Mr President - of putting an end to the shame of the citizenship income allocated to brigadeists, thieves, rapists and murderers. We warned you in this House first with Senator Balboni of this risk; what we all know happened, but you chose the path of cleverness and chose not to do anything when it was possible to do something. With this measure, which you will vote with confidence, you will assume the responsibility of leaving at home many workers, who I fear will lose their jobs, while the assassinated brigadeist will remain at home to receive the income of citizenship paid with the taxes of the good Italians. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Pizzol.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u41	We greet the young people of the Istituto "Pontano" in Naples present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a rather special measure because it passes between two different governments, as some of my colleagues have mentioned. Unfortunately, many toxins remain in this passage in this House, because all the speeches of the colleagues of the League seem exactly those that are heard between two boyfriends who broke up and each speaks badly of the other although they were together until the previous month. Friends, since they love you, they tolerate it. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , but after one, two or three times, at some point, with all sincerity, they ask you to explain the flaws of that person with whom you were together until the previous month. BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). You're talking about yourself, too. RAMPI (PD). I think we should focus on the content of the measures. VOICE FROM THE L-SP-PSD'Az GROUP. Bravo! RAMPI (PD). And what we did as a Democratic Party is exactly that. We inherited a decree-law; we looked at what was inside, we saw that very important safeguards were contained for particularly weak categories of workers and we decided that this was important to support and carry forward, perhaps trying to improve it; and so we did. We tried to introduce a measure and reminded us of the former minister Centinario who tried for a year to obtain this result on the treatment of the final phase of the waste cycles. You've been trying for a year, and we've been able to do it all these months. We'll be luckier, I'm not saying we'll be better; but you can't take it out on us because we did and you can't. I must say, then, that Mr Centinario's speeches - I do not want to be stubborn - are very particular. In fact, yesterday in this House you explained, on the subject on which I wanted to concentrate my speech, what is missing in the decree in question in relation to the agriculture and tourism sectors. But Senator Centinaire was in the Council of Ministers when the decree-law was written. So I am pleased that you are now explaining to us what is lacking in relation to the sectors that were within your competence, but we cannot arrive and, within a month, to fix what Minister Centinario, in the areas within his competence, has not done in the space of a year. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is absolutely significant and relevant. In particular, as regards tourism, I remember that in this poor country, for a year tourism was placed in the agriculture sector for the sole reason of allowing my colleague Centinario to deal with it, even if the latter says that in the decree-law to our examination - I remember that he also helped to write it - there are no contents. The tourism sector finally returns to its natural beehive, which is that of cultural activities and that great economic Ministry that is culture and thanks to this you start to work. I agree that we should not make great proclamations. We do not need the lesson on the importance of hostels, we all know it, we feel it too, and it is a subject on which we must work. Just as the issue of Thomas Cook is absolutely relevant and we have managed, for the moment, to obtain, with the first signature of my colleague, Mr Collina, an agenda. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] A lot is said about the agenda. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda can be of great or very little use, depending on the seriousness of the government. [[Comments of Senator Centinario]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u43	Colleagues, a new form of debate has not been established in this House which provides for debate. Let Mr Rampi speak for the time he has available.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u44	Please, colleague Rampi. RAMPI (PD). Thank you, Mr President, but I love dialectics. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Mr Rampi, I would also like to say this to you: continue in your speech. RAMPI (PD). I gladly listen to the comments and notes on the sidelines of my colleague Centinario, so we integrate the intervention in a dialectic and immediate way. The agendas serve or do not serve according to the seriousness of the Government and of those who take charge of it. I know Mrs Bonaccorsi. I had the opportunity to confront her yesterday too. I know of the meetings that have taken place with tourism companies and this direction that Parliament gives with today's measure in relation to those workers falls into good hands, so we are sure. We're talking about a vote of confidence. Here, we have confidence: we have confidence in the work that will be done in the field of tourism; we have confidence in the work that will be done in the field of work; we have confidence in the work that will be done in the field of industrial activities because finally, in this country, by a politician who does not belong to my strength, it is already the third time that we hear again, in this country, of industrial policies. This is the fundamental issue, because we must understand whether or not we have a strategy of growth and development for the country. We believe that this measure is a very good feature of the situation we are in. We are in a phase of passage; we still inherit some characteristics of a Government that, born from two radically different forces - and in these hours you have again and strongly reminded us - had to build a compromise in a direction that we considered negative. We are convinced that we can make a useful contribution to building a compromise which goes in a different direction. The first changes to this measure, which is the last of the previous phase and the first of the new phase, go exactly in this direction. We are therefore convinced to continue this hard, tiring and not simple work that is useful for the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u46	Mr President, the problem is precisely the one raised by Mr Rampi: from two different forces we have changed to four equal weaknesses that want to go in the same direction. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The problem is that the bill will be paid by the country. And in the decree-law under consideration that had been strongly desired and had positive aspects, you forgot to change the title because more than the corporate crisis, after the washing that you did to him, you could talk about lava-consciousness, because what you needed disappeared and other you did not add. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We could say it's a bit of a bad copy, a tarot copy, like the Parmesan we gave President Conte a few days ago. Minister Stefano Patuanelli made an incredible effort yesterday - he always does and we recognize him - so much so that he even wanted to commit himself to anticipating crises. Patuanelli is not present, but we do not ask him that much. However, the country asks at least not to delay the solutions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It's 14 months late on Piaggio and the end of waste. It could have been done before: that would have been enough! Take good care and I address my colleague, Mr Ferrazzi in particular: the fact is that we have not been good enough in fourteen months on the end of waste, but that the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars were not afraid enough to lose the chair. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Thus, those authorisations made Region by Region, which were not good, have now become immediately possible: this is the difference between what happened to the amendments proposed by the League, which Mr Arrigoni explained, and what happened to the amendments proposed today and approved by the majority. However, these amendments are also a bad copy, because they add vexing controls to companies. The result of this situation - and I address in particular my colleague, Senator Collina, although he is not here now - is not the noble balance to which he referred yesterday, but an exercise of such balance, which without the crutch of confidence you would already be in the air, because this question of trust has been raised not against the opposition, but against the divisions of the majority. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You're fighting more in a month than we have discussed constructively in a year. The stories that my colleague Senator Collina referred to yesterday, saying that they should not be told, are a bit the ones that my colleague Senator Grimani told just now. Quoting the Umbria Region, he claimed to be Umbrian - I am too - and spoke of the heavy pay envelope, recalling another government provision. It takes courage, after the Renzi-Gentiloni government had planned twenty-four months for the heavy pay envelope and they were our Government and in particular the League to propose to reach one hundred and twenty months. So it really takes courage to claim the merit of an extension of three months, when at first it was thought of a very short period. There was, in fact, an amendment tabled in the Commission and proposed again for the Assembly which really concerned Umbria and was Amendment 140.5 tabled by the League, which concerned the lakes and in particular Lake Trasimeno. It proposed the modification of the rules for dredging, because, for a crazy legislation of 2006, the natural material, which is causing the collapse of Lake Trasimeno, is considered waste, with all that follows. This could be said by the Province's technicians and the representatives of the companies, who have even been the subject of warranty notices. It was necessary to block the dredgings and for thirteen years the lake has continued in burying and eutrophication. Colleagues, in the same hours when Minister Costa was visiting Trasimeno two days ago to promise the solution to the problem, you rejected the amendment in the Commission. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That's the truth! You can't go teasing people in the election campaign, because otherwise you lose trust. There is so much loss of confidence, ladies and gentlemen, that you may even be able to give it to each other in this House, but Region after Region, vote after vote, the Italians are taking it away from you and on Sunday it is up to Umbria! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u48	Mr President, the conversion into law of the decree-law on corporate crises will also solve a critical issue for a strategic sector not only of the Italian economy, but also of the parliamentary majority that supports the new Government; a parliamentary majority that has decided to engage and characterize itself on the issues of the environment - through the green new deal - as had never happened before. In the rules contained in the decree on corporate crises, thanks to an amendment drawn up with colleagues of majority of the Commission territory, environment, environmental goods - the result of a real synergic work - which has been incorporated in the maxi amendment on which the government today demands confidence, we also find the new legislation on the so-called end of waste. The expression "end of waste," translated into Italian as "cessation of the refusal" refers to a recovery process carried out on a waste, at the end of which it loses that qualification in order to acquire that of a product. The end of waste must therefore be understood not as the final result, but as the process which, in practice, allows a refusal to return to play a useful role as a product. It is one of the cornerstones of the circular economy. The novelty introduced in the conversion into law of the corporate crisis decree finally allows to exceed the measure contained in the unblock yards (approved by the previous parliamentary majority in June last), which referred to the old legislation of 1998 and to this solution it is finally reached, after twenty months from the decision of the Council of State of 28 February 2018 that, finding a legislative deficiency in the matter, had blocked both the renewals, and the new authorizations from the Regions for the recycling of waste not regulated by European regulations or national decrees: a block that has brought damages to the field involving almost all the innovative activities of recycling. We could and should therefore act as a matter of urgency. To overcome this situation and eliminate the mess created with the decree unblocks yards - as a vast array of more than 50 environmental associations was being supported - would have sufficed to transpose Article 6 of the new Directive 2018/851 of the European Union, which provides specific conditions and criteria, unitary and valid for the whole national territory, that would allow to exceed the judgment of the Council of State and to entrust to the Regions, in the absence of national decrees and European regulations, to authorize, on a case-by-case basis, activities of complete recycling, with the cessation of the qualification of refusal of the obtained product. The agreement found in the majority, also the result of listening to the associations of the sector, represents the right balance between those who wanted to give more competences to the Regions in order to make the procedure more agile and those who asked for more controls fearing untransparent maneuvers at the local level. To decide how and when a refusal ceases to be such and, instead of ending up in disposal, is inserted in a production cycle as raw material, will be the agencies in charge in the Regions. The Ministry of the Environment will, however, be responsible for verifying and monitoring this process. In addition, a national register for the collection of authorisations issued is established to assist the approval of standards. On this delicate and important topic, therefore, the subjects in the field for the recovery of the waste will be two: the Regions, that they will be able to give authorizations to the companies, and the Ministry of the environment that, through the ISPRA, will have powers of control. The new rule also lays down the time-limits for the whole procedure, including the clearance of the ISPRA, to be terminated. This is to give immediate answers to companies that want to start productions. The end-of-waste rules serve not only to limit the number of waste that ends up in disposal, but also to avoid phenomena such as fires in storage sheds, which have occurred frequently lately. As legislators, we must always bear in mind that, if the rules do not take due account of the continuing technological evolution of the subject, there is a risk of compromising the role and action of different sectors in the economy; in this specific case, the lack of regulatory intervention, attentive to the development of increasingly innovative technologies, would have compromised the development of the circular economy. The majority agreement on this amendment therefore allows certain rules to be laid down for the recovery of differentiated waste which can be reused. The Gruppo Italia Viva - PSI likes to help the country in the development of a circular economy capable of ensuring recovery and new jobs. The approval of this expected rule represents the best way to support the green turn that the new government has announced to make and that it will find in a new package of massive investments included in the budget law - 50 billion in fifteen years, of which 15 billion in the next three years - the most important recognition. The majority have shown that, through mutual listening, different political forces but united by the sharing of specific objectives, can confront and find valid and useful mediations, in this case strategic for the development of the circular economy. The Italia Viva-PSI Group believes in the environmental change and the country's development model. Last weekend Italy Viva lived its founding event in Florence; among the moments that characterized the three days at the Leopolda station there was also the presentation of the green act, a project that proposes a modern environmentalism. So we will not miss our ideas and proposals to a government and a majority that have happily decided to start a green new deal in our country. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u49	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we begin and if good morning is seen from the morning, we believe that the government without the crutch of trust will fall to the first inflamed with the opposite wind. I see Senator Laus smiling, but in the meantime he's sitting quietly. But the fear of going back to the polls will be thought of as a barrier, unfortunately. You are well aware that the same confidence will hardly be given to you by the sovereign people. The "new" government immediately manifests the only, certain unity of intent having immediately found the guiding thread, the certainty in the confusion, that is, the organizational chaos and discrimination of Parliament, beginning, as it is said, at a "bout of confidence". We appreciate the calmness and seriousness of Minister Patuanelli who, in his heartfelt reply yesterday in general debate, presented a whole series of commendable intentions and hope that they can be realized. We know that Minister Patuanelli believes in this personally. Then, dear Minister Patuanelli, with the esteem of the person we feed for you, we tell you that the path of hell is paved with good intentions and that those who live hope, desperate die. (Following GALLONE). However, we would prefer that the government be exhausted rather than the country. In fact, we are tired of hearing about the future after almost two years that you are in the government, either of rifle or of raffle. The government has always had the majority of Minister Patuanelli and the Premier has not changed. I remember Count I and Count II being the same person. The country system must have a government in mind before it starts working. A serious government that really cares about the good of the country must know how to imagine the models of development, must be able to defend production and work. And if even in here, in the decree-law on our examination, in the pure emergency, you can safeguard companies, we are really crazy. I am referring, as previous speakers have done, to the question of Ilva, for example, because the right to work and health is an objective issue and must go hand in hand, while you continue to consider the issue of the environment in the "Gretina" way instead of dealing with it as seriously as possible, leaving experts to work. This is a construction site, says Mr Laus; a construction site? Do you know what they say around here, partner? The wax is consumed and the procession does not walk. In the meantime, with an amendment, remove the mini shield from the managers who are supposed to solve the crisis in Ilva, thus endangering, as has already been said, 10,000 jobs. Health and work are the top priority, but working in this way does not solve the health problems, nor the problems of working in a territory that does not deserve such a government. Forza Italia had tabled an amendment of common sense, conditioning the application of the exclusion of the criminal and administrative responsibility of managers to the respect of the individual deadlines contained in the schedule and of the prescriptions previewed in the business plan. This would have been of common sense and concreteness. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Meanwhile, Italy is still suspended between stagnation and recession. It's like choosing between Movimento 5 Stars and Democratic Party. Growth and employment will remain around zero, labour costs will increase and therefore productivity will fall. Let us not forget the customs war between the USA and China, whose impact we will also suffer; how many more Whirlpools will we have to expect? We love our country too much not to react to all this, not to react to those who today, as happens in the press, talk about business chronicle when talking about Italy. And while we fight over the end of waste, our garbage becomes gold, but abroad. My dear colleague Mr Ferrazzi, my dear colleague Mr Beginini, you too have accepted a compromise on the downside; yet, you accept it by showing great enthusiasm, shouting for victory. If, in fact, the amendment adopted certainly finally paves the way for the issue of waste and the end of waste for the already authorised installations, the authorization power conferred on the regions will be subjected to such coercive and cumbersome controls by the State that it is profoundly ineffective. Colleagues, an agency of "Utilitalia" has just come out and of the various associations of category that, in its final part, says that "the same amendment introduces a new profile of criticality" - I say not I, but the associations - is linked to the new and stratified procedure of controls on controls that not only is started on a discretionary basis (no criteria are reported), but forgets every objective of efficiency and simplification, throws a wing of uncertainty and so on. I invite you to read it because you have all the agencies. I repeat again: it is shamefully offensive to the Regions, as I said yesterday, as if the Regions were not public bodies for the protection of legality, and this will generate a series of infinite disputes. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But we do not agree: it would have been enough at least to listen to the regions - as we have done - and to read their proposals, which we have made and tabled in the form of an amendment which, of course, has not been taken into account. On the other hand, a government that prefers to bring the waste of Rome to Lombardy rather than the good practices of Lombardy in Rome says it very long, with a Rai, among other things, kneeling to Conte, to this Government, to the Rays, dedicating to them broadcasts in which there is the one man show or the one woman show. A government that intervenes with a deranged action like plastic tax, that will bring to its knees the production plants and the recycling plants, instead of studying a system of concrete support for the implementation of the circular economy, as can be called if not a government demented? Or again, as we speak of corporate crises - I will continue as a broken record to repeat it - we forget the tragedy of the olive sector, which in the heel of Italy saw the production of oil collapse by 95 percent, with producers reduced on the pavement, a devastated landscape; the suffering microclimate, the collapsed economy, families hungry because of the bacterium of xylella, which in 2020 we still cannot eradicate. I would have expected striking actions from a Southern Ministry, and I think they would have expected it also in the South; but in the South they are waiting for you. Put your trust here because you certainly won't get it from people. You have only one luck, that of having a very rich Italy of its most abundant matter: the ingenuity, the stubbornness, the perseverance, the strength of our best entrepreneurs, despite the limits of a system Country in which the bureaucracy sclerotizes the initiative; the infrastructures are lacking, the energy has very high costs, the justice is slow. The solutions, therefore, if we had provided to build a serious thought-country, there would have been, there could be here and now, even within this measure, which, moreover, does not take into account situations of crisis proclaimed and so serious that continuing not to deal with it is no longer plausible. It is necessary to rediscover the system of priorities starting from those who create the work: this is called development. Everything else is pure welfareism, of which Italy, the country that makes the protection of the dignity of the person - based primarily on work - its pride, does not need. Italians don't want to be an assistant: we are not a country like this; we are not a country of parasites, but of people who work. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Opening tables to close businesses doesn't seem like an ideal situation. Let us turn to the rapporteur, Mr Girotto, whom I regret to have given the creeps, as he said yesterday in his reply. If it can console him, I also felt the same chills listening to his reply to my intervention, which, thinking of the world of enterprise, makes me say "from friends you look at me God, that from enemies I look at me." If, in fact, it is true that some measures have been implemented, no structural situation has actually been achieved. Therefore, I repeat and cry: this Government is not a friend of entrepreneurs, it is not a friend of employers or workers because it always puts pieces and cloths; no political plan of intervention. And I regret his displeasure in hearing me define the income of citizenship as an immoral measure, but unfortunately - put your hands on your ears - I repeat that it is immoral to devote to this purpose resources that could be dedicated to the solution of company crises, to the creation of jobs, to investments or even just to make the kids work in summer with seasonal contracts. We re-introduce the voucher system with the right controls, so as to combat undeclared work and allow young people to experience it, because without it they will never find a job. We will never be complicit in this government. Mr Girotto is right when he says that morality is an extremely subjective philosophical concept. What is objective, however, is yet another failure of another Prime Minister-led Government, Conte, who does not know how to build a measure in a serious, complete manner, in the correct time and with the effective democratic participation of the only power of the State that gives voice to the citizens, that is, this Parliament. Sir Winston Churchill said (repeat, Churchill and not Count): "A nation that is taxed in the hope of becoming prosperous is like a man standing in a bucket trying to lift himself by pulling the handle." [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dell'Olio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u52	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we are meeting to discuss and approve a measure which contains in the title itself the essence of its objectives: Emergency provisions for the protection of work and for the resolution of corporate crises. We of Movimento 5 Stars have always been sensitive to the theme of work, considering it as a primary source of dignity for people. I will now try to explain to you what is so important about this measure. The measure protects groups considered weak in the working environment, such as, for example, riders, workers with disabilities, LSU, workers of public utility, precarious and those involved in company crises. However, I would like to focus on another rule of the measure, inserted with an amendment, of course, but no less organic than others included with regard to origin, which aims at the internalization of the multichannel contact center of the INPS. This provision puts an end to the practice, consolidated over time by the INPS, of contracting externally the management of the contact center, perhaps because it was considered not as part of the core business of the company and, therefore, externalizable, or perhaps it was done because it was believed to have an economic advantage, not paying the costs of the employees (by the way, we speak of about 3,000 people). However, over time these resources (which often - if not always - are the same, transiting from a contract winning company to the next) have begun to play a much larger role than a simple contact center, with the use of INPS information systems, opening practices and managing problems, as if they were full-fledged INPS employees and non-operators and operators of an external company. We are talking about people employed by a society that, in fact, works for another, but hung up on a store clerk who does not give them guarantees for the future. The INPS has understood, thanks to an activity of internal consultation and with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, triggered also thanks to some workers of these call centers who have contacted us, that the internalization of the call centers would have produced a great benefit and, above all, that it could have been realized at zero cost for the system, with also the possibility to bring inside skills that for years worked for INPS. For these reasons, this action is doubly meritorious and advantageous. It is said that work ennobles man, but it must also contribute to the life and growth of the person and his family and must not, at the same time, be a cause that afflicts or creates harm to people. I am talking about the former Ilva and the abolition of the criminal immunity contained in this measure, which alone deserves to be trusted. As an Apulian, I cannot remain silent on this issue. I speak not only as a Apulian, but as a citizen and spokesperson who is in this House to make Italy better and that there are no more places where a person has to go to work with sadness in his heart. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I speak of sadness because the person has to work to have the money to live, knowing however that something, in the long run, could happen to her or her family that often lives not far from the workplace. People don't have to live to work, they have to work to live. And if work has negative effects on living, what work is it? And how can we, as spokesperson for the Italians, remain indifferent to these situations? For so many, too many years, Ilva has been a matter that many governments have broken down, but no longer. As a 5-star Movimento Group in the Senate and as a whole, we have worked to block criminal immunity, because constitutional rights must always be balanced, especially in the workplace. But this is not the case when immunity is provided to a factory that creates events of illness and death, of deaths induced throughout the Taranto area. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Now we all know too well the history of the city of Taranto, for years leader in the steel industry, thanks to the largest steel production plant in Europe. The situation, however, has changed considerably and drastically, with problems not only from an economic point of view, but also and above all from an environmental point of view and in terms of health for citizens and workers. Employment problems are also not exempt, given the thousands of integrated cases that today, despite the fact that the factory has never stopped, live in the shadow of the chimneys of the steel industry. Over the years, several interventions have been carried out to ensure the continuity of the company's production, even in the event of seizure. The last entrusted, ArcelorMittal, has taken advantage of the so-called criminal and administrative immunity for the conducts put in place in implementation of the environmental plan. Immunity, let's remember well, which had as its first deadline on 30 June 2017, aligned with the deadline for defining the environmental plan, but which has been extended, not without humor, until 2023, linking it to the expiry date of the environmental plan. Then, with the growth decree, it was identified in 6 September 2019 the deadline for the application of exemption from criminal and administrative liability. It is therefore right that no further extensions should now be granted: there are no other companies with such immunity in Italy and I believe in Europe. Everyone now needs to take on their responsibilities, trying to act effectively on several levels. Taranto needs to return to the limelight on the national and international scene as a place imbued with historical, cultural, artistic and landscape characteristics and to start economic conversion thanks to innovation, renewable energies, reclamations and circular economy. We restore dignity to the city and, above all, to the citizens, who are now debased and disillusioned. My time is over, Mr President. Already this reason alone would be enough to give confidence to this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u53	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. I briefly suspend the sitting, pending the opinion of the 5th standing Commission. (The sitting was suspended at 13.19 a.m. and resumed at 13.31 a.m.) I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on Amendment 1,900, which is entirely a substitute for the single article of the draft conversion law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u54	The Economic Planning Commission, budget, examined the further amendment of the Government 1,900, relating to the bill in title, transmitted by the Shareholders' Meeting, expresses, as far as it is of its own competence, opinion not precluded conditional, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, to the following modifications: in paragraph 10-a, in paragraph 1, replace the words: "pairs to 10 million euro for the year 2020", with the following: "pairs to 5 million euro for each of the years 2020 and 2021, the paragraph 2 of the same article is replaced by the following: The costs arising from paragraph l, amounting to EUR 5 million for each of the years 2020 and 2021, shall be reduced by a corresponding reduction in the projections of the appropriation of the special capital account fund entered, for the purposes of the three-year budget 2019-2021, under the "Source and special funds" programme of the mission "Sources to be shared" of the forecast statement of the Ministry of Economy and Finance for the year 2019, for the purpose partially using the provision relating to the Ministry of Economy and Finance for the year 2020 and the provision relating to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport for the year 2021. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance is authorized to make, with his own decrees, the necessary changes in the budget.In Article 12, paragraph 1-a is deleted; Article 15-a with urgent measures for the protection of social and welfare activities of the Italian Association of Youth Hotels and for the safeguarding of the relative level of employment is deleted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u55	Does the Government intend to accept the opinion of the Budget Commission?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u56	Mr President, the government takes up the guidelines of the Budget Committee and makes them its own.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u57	It therefore adapts the text to the conditions laid down by the 5th standing Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u60	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues, the subject of work is also the main objective of our political action to try to create the best possible conditions for every individual and every family to have the possibility of a decent life through good employment. We have, therefore, looked carefully at this measure concerning work and corporate crises. The employment problems do not only concern the South of our country, but the whole territory, including the deep North, from which I come. During this period, even in Val D'Aosta we are dealing with corporate crises, in particular that of the Shiloh of Verrès, for which, in agreement with the regional administration, we have activated the Government to try to better support the actions aimed at safeguarding the company and especially the workers and their protections. One of the issues we wanted to raise during the debate in the Commission on this measure is the problem of an important sector of the mountain economy, linked to cableways and ski slopes. In particular, it was for us, at the request of the national operators, to succeed in obtaining the recognition of seasonal work for those who work at the lifts, which seemed obvious but was not. According to the recent legislation adopted in Parliament, fixed-term contracts - excluding seasonal contracts - are subject to an additional contribution from the employer, which grows in a cumulative manner with each renewal. It is therefore an increase which could have undermined the recruitment of new workers and the confirmation of persons already employed in previous years. Now, thanks to the adoption of our amendment, the law finally recognizes seasonal work, which is excluded from this additional contribution, for those workers who operate at cableways and ski slopes. This is an important achievement for us and for the whole of the Alps, and it is an example of what attention to mountain policies means. In this sense I would like to thank the Undersecretaries of Piazza and Puglisi and the Undersecretary of Misiani, for having worked on this amendment in a concrete way. Another important amendment proposed by our Group has been approved and expressly reaffirms the competence of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano for appeals in the field of work, thus making clarity on a subject that was likely to create a lot of regulatory confusion, limiting in fact the prerogatives of the Province. Thanks to the members of the Commission, the amendment on the safeguard clause for regions with special status and autonomous provinces of Trento and Bolzano was also accepted, thus showing an overall sensitivity of the majority to the territories of regions with special status. As far as the general system of the measure is concerned, the aspects relating to the hotel tourism sector are still critical, which is likely to enter a phase of great difficulty as a result of Thomas Cook's failure. The same applies to the overcoming of Article 10 of the growth measure, a rule that is causing great concern among small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the field of building renovation and energy efficiency. We also welcome one of the rules in this measure that has been discussed most, namely the protection of bellhops, riders: those who work must have guaranteed the minimum protection in order to be able to operate in safety and dignity. I think that the Commission has found a summary of this measure and that the rules we approve today are of great balance. To conclude, we too are very concerned and attentive about the crisis in Ilva in Taranto; we agree with the need to review and update in a general sense national and above all European strategies on the steel industry. We, too, in Aosta, have an important settlement, that of Cogne Accia Speciali, so we follow this issue very closely and we believe that this sector must still be a driving force for the economy of the whole European Union, as well as an important opportunity for employment. For these reasons, Mr President, our Group will therefore express a favourable opinion on the government's confidence in this measure. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u63	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, if I may, before I go into the substance of this measure, I would like to make a small detour of a few seconds, because I probably will not have a chance to get back to the point during the day. I have heard also echo the words security, role of the State, work and dignity in this morning's debate, precisely in these hours, which are very sad and grieving for our country and my city, since we mourn the death of a six-year-old child who a few days ago in a public school in Milan fell down the stairs. I say this because every day we bring our children to these institutions, the schools, which are the safest place to entrust them to: but if this trust fails, that pact is broken and the State becomes more fragile. Among the things that we should do across the political forces is the largest public investment in public school that has ever been done since the post-war period: maybe we should talk about this to save the country, so today, in addition to pain and of course anger, I wanted to say that too. The measure was said and pointed out by colleagues who preceded me that it is a legacy we took in our hands: it was conceived and born at a different stage from the one in which we live on a political level, with a different majority; it was therefore our duty, our responsibility and even our right to give it a very different sign (and we did so, even if with some element of shyness, according to someone's claims). I think, however, that on some sensitive issues that affect life and even the dignity of people we have tried to carry out certain operations - I have also allowed some emphasis - in some cases giving rise to even small revolutions, such as that carried out in the field of labour law, on the question of so-called riders. Referring to this category of cyclofactors, I speak of a small revolution of labour law because for me the reasoning that has just begun on this measure does not concern and will not only concern an important part of workers (about 20,000), but it has to do with the gaze that we place on a much larger part of the world of work and on the transformations that it is undergoing and from which it is crossed. Mr President, I think I can say - at least for the part of the Chamber in which I sit - that there is no one who does not feel intrigued by the changes in the world of work. Someone called the capitalism of digital platforms the development of this mode of work organisation and mediation between employer and worker. We are genuinely curious, because we are passionate about the theme of technological innovations and how people's lives, their lifestyles and consumption, as well as the organization of work and businesses can change. However, there is one thing that we cannot allow - at least I am speaking for my colleagues who have worked in a positive and improved sense on the measure - and it is that all this happens without being reconciled with the great issue of respect for the rights and dignity of work and of people. We also did so at the hearing and there are some colleagues from the Commission working here: we have listened to young people and even workers who are a little less young, someone says they are hetero-guided by companies; there are journalistic investigations on this, but I do not go into it because I do not know if they were hetero-led by companies. But when we hear twenty or twenty-five-year-olds crying out for piecework, we have a responsibility not only to say that that stuff there is out of the law, but that it is a productive, working model and even a deeply wrong society. It is not a matter of working more up to the maximum of the physical forces available, but of working in relation to the willingness that each person can put on the field and, above all, in respect of his or her dignity. It is a matter of doing so in the name of the possibility of bringing home a decent wage. This is what we have done about the provision of riders and cyclofactors, that is to say, to check whether there were any cases, of the figures, who continuously carry out and carry out this work, and because of this they must be framed, for example, within the scheme of the employment relationship; because of this they must be able to enjoy the protections that that contractual scheme provides. This is so that there are no abuses and conditions - let me say - of exploitation, because this is what we are talking about. We did this for the figures who showed a sign of continuity from the point of view of the performance of their work. Just as we have thought of sheltering, in terms of the protections to be offered, other workers who perhaps do the same profession and work in the same occasional way, but that this must not be less recipients of protection because precisely we are talking about the work and the dignity of the workers. Of course, we have done so by supporting a process of collective bargaining which, however, remains the basis for what must be a privileged mechanism for us in the relationship between workers, employers and therefore trade union organisations that must be in the game of labour protection bargaining. From my point of view, regarding the legacy that we have fixed, we have given a signal of openness and progress on the plan of the proposal that we have put in place and the solution that we have identified on the great issue - great from the symbolic point of view - of the workers of ANPAL Servizi. In fact, there was one thing that did not come back from our opposition and we criticized the majority on this ground. In other words, how could we manage to do an operation, for example, on the navigators - which must be recorded, readjusted, verified, tested - and not go hand in hand with the issue of the stabilization of these workers who for years have carried out with professionalism that work to which they are called today also because of the mechanism that must be put in the field with respect to the issue of the income of citizenship, and therefore in connection with the navigators themselves. If I may say so, there was even an issue of social cohesion, that is discrimination between workers, so for me the stabilization - someone says the enhancement, let's also call it valorization - of these workers (654, including fixed-term workers who spend indefinitely), rather than the collaborators who have a preferential lane compared to the recruitment methods, today sees a real perspective. I think it's a signal for the entire public administration. In the time that remains at my disposal I will not be able to fully express a judgment on a very delicate issue on which we will inevitably have to return, not so much and not only because that of Ilva is a gigantic chapter to deal with, here too I hope with the utmost of the transversal spirit between the political forces, therefore of sharing with respect to the solutions to be identified, but also because that chapter must be fully within a general framework. My colleague Vasco Errani was right when yesterday, in general discussion, he touched on the point, that is, the question of industrial policies in this country and the question that we continue not to ask ourselves: where is Italy going? What is our model of production specialization? What does Italy want to do when it grows up? What is the fabric you want to build? What's the size of the enterprise you're looking at? What is the role of this country in the international division of labour? If we do not ask ourselves this question, Mr President, we will continue to pursue events as we are doing and we will never be able to get out of that unbearable blackmail, first and foremost for those who are directly affected by it, between work and development, between health and material conditions. Getting out of blackmail between respect for the environment and guaranteeing the right to work is our duty, it is our responsibility, so in this sense too the debate we have had must help us achieve this objective. For these reasons we shall vote in favour of this measure when we examine it, and of course we hope that this reasoning will pave the way for further very positive action which I hope we will take in the future. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u66	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, in the meantime, I would like to return to this House the reality of the situation with regard to the scene that we were forced to attend a moment ago, namely the League which displays signs for a decree-law that it has written. As I said in my previous speech on cartels, and I repeat: I envy you, because you can use this instrument of protest (I have done so too, let alone context). However, I suggest you at least wait for a measure that you did not write to protest. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Read it! He's changed! FARAONE (IV-PSI). Or, if you have to expose something, put on a hat with donkey ears, since the measure you're contesting... president. Senator Pharaoh, it was a good start! FARAONE (IV-PSI). I believe that from this point of view we need some common sense and the attitude of those who think Members of this House are absolutely intelligent people. We, in fact, will vote in favour of the decree-law on our examination knowing that it has enormous criticalities. Precisely because it is between a previous Government and the current one, it is a measure that contains some elements that we vote more for the confidence we have expressed towards the Government than for the merit. In fact, if we were to look at this decree-law as the instrument that solves the economic crisis of the companies of this country we certainly are not there. It continues to be a decree of resistance, it continues to be a floating decree, that is, we continue to face the crises with the attitude of those who manage such crises floating them. We, on the other hand, need to make a qualitative leap from this point of view. I also address Minister Patuanelli who is absent today but who spoke yesterday giving, in my opinion, a positive response on Ilva on which I will return later, but having a somewhat too fatalist attitude on what concerns crisis management that normally and daily should be carried out by his Ministry. Mrs Ginetti pointed out to me how the term corporate crisis resolution was used in the decree on our examination. The term resolution does not mean solution. Resolution means addressing the issue however it goes. It is not good for us to deal with this matter anyway. We need a government to deal with corporate crises and solve them. From this point of view, I believe that we should radically change our attitude precisely because the number of open business crises is very high. The list of integration banks and all the tools that are made available to workers when there is a company crisis is really long and looks more like a corporate cemetery. So we need to be able to build policies to revive the country's economy and increase GDP. If GDP grows, the prospects for companies that are in crisis today and for those who want to invest also grow. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] Even to our allies, who are voting with us on this measure, but with a radically different point of view than ours, let's say that we cannot accept that this kind of derby exists in the country, between the protections that must be guaranteed to workers and the development of companies, as if they were two communicating vessels: if protection goes up, the possibility of giving incentives and support to companies and vice versa. On the other hand, we believe that the mechanism must be completely opposed, namely that we must strengthen companies, in order to give more protection to workers. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] Mr President, in this spirit we have dealt with the issue of raiders. I remember the text that was originally presented, which turned the self-employed into employees, which the workers themselves did not want either. That's the wrong approach. Instead, having preserved and preserved the character of the self-employed and giving the opportunity to entrepreneurs to consider the investment in this country still convenient today is a correct and fair balance, which has been achieved thanks to our intervention. I invite the many who have criticized the jobs act in recent years to clean their mouths, compared to what they said about that instrument [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] because it is thanks to the jobs act that the protections have been realized, that today they are previewed for the riders. At the same time, we criticized two measures. Connect Centinario and colleagues of the League, you cannot be Martians: I will call you E.T. From now on. If we have a budgetary manoeuvre today, with zero GDP, it is because you have doubled the VAT safeguard clauses and have allocated those resources to two assistance measures. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] : the citizenship income, which you voted for and did not vote for us [[Comments of Senator Romeo]] , and quota 100. These are two measures on which you have decided to invest the resources available. Imagine if today, the same resources, equal to 12-13 billion euros, could have invested them in reducing the tax wedge and cutting taxes. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI. Comments of Senator Bossi Simone]] That would have created work and development. Instead we are making a budget maneuver like this, because you have built the conditions for not being able to make any investment. Going back to the topic of jobs act, I remember that the plant was based on the flexibility of the companies and not on the precariousness (they are two different things), on the protection for those who lose the job, through the New Social Insurance for the job (NASPI), for all the categories and not only for those that were protected before the NASPI was established, and on the economy, allocating more resources on the Income of Inclusion (REI). If we had maintained these three legs and had moved forward in that direction, we would now have a safer system for workers and a more secure development for businesses. Instead, with this attitude of fury, of those who must destroy everything that has been, we found ourselves in the condition of having interrupted a virtuous path. Despite this, the jobs act, so much criticized, continues to work, it also worked for riders and it is thanks to that tool that we managed to give more protection to those workers. Of course, we have managed to reach a compromise on this, even though we would have liked to do more for this category of workers. However, thanks to this measure, we have guaranteed the possibility of becoming sick or pregnant. These are all guarantees that were not provided for and that we have now succeeded in introducing this measure. On Ilva, what do you want me to say, dear colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars? Also the article on Ilva is an article that has been managed everything within the same movement, so if the former Minister, Di Maio, says that in order to guarantee and still allow the investment in Mittal on the Ilva of Taranto there is a need for the immunity of administrators and that becomes an essential element for the continuation of the investment and then a minister of the same movement says the exact opposite - Minister Patuanelli told us yesterday and we asked that he come to take responsibility for this type of intervention - for us it is fine, as long as Ilva continues to operate. (Ironic appeals from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group). As long as Ilva continues to be a company. (Some Senators from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group [[They stand up.]] ). I thank my Northern Curve celebrating. Thank you because I am truly honored to have you as fans and I am glad that you are appreciating my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u67	The North Curve is please sit down.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u68	FARAONE (IV-PSI). In the end, the Movimento 5 Stars told us, with its successive ministers, that this does not change anything, so that Mittal continues to invest, that we continue on the environmental conversion of that site and if they have assumed the responsibility to say this, for us it is fine. We have presented an agenda with colleagues from the Democratic Party who strengthen this concept, and therefore even more convinced of this approach, then of course we hope that it will not end as with the Whirlpool, so they prepare measures for the company (Minister Patuanelli told us that an ad hoc measure will be made to strengthen this virtuous path in the Ilva of Taranto) and then the company leaves and those measures does not even use them. From this point of view, we rely so much on what the Minister said. I begin with a great thank you both to the Minister, to the Parent Senator, and to the colleagues of the majority for finally closing this story of ANPAL, with the stabilization of the workers, who represent a heritage of the bureaucracy of this country, because it is always bad, but it is a valid heritage and when it is so it must be fully valued and strengthened. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] Of course, from the next measure on economic and corporate crisis we expect much more than the simple floating that is giving us this measure, always taking into account the fact that this is a measure that - I repeat - has been written by another majority and that we have corrected and modified simply to improve it and to go in the direction of the interests of workers and the development of companies. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u71	BERTACCO (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I must say that the last speech by Senator Pharaoh seems to me a bit like the one in the series: I vote it, but it is not my fault, because the others had done it. This happened during the general debate and even now in an explanation of vote. If things are shared they are voted, otherwise they are not, but this is the footprint of this new Government, which at the first measure raises the first question of trust. I would also like to say to Senator Laforgia, who I do not see in this House now, that we too are very curious about the new forms of work, but I have to say that it is quite tantalizing that, when some young people have come to the Commission to say theirs, if they say something that is not right for this Government, they are hetero-guided. I had the impression - from the moment the boys who came to the Commission had split into two factions, four in the front row and four in the second row, with the hetero-guided in the front row - that those in the second row were led union. Since I have a great interest in forms of work, I would have liked to have discussed the protections, which none of us had in mind not to grant because it is correct that more protection is given to these workers. There was the proposal to make a table to better deepen these new forms of work and instead it was thought well to cage this new form of work, inserting into the law the term digital platforms. I think we should discuss a lot of time about what a digital platform is. The way you chose is this. We listened to a man of forty-three years of age who had just had a failure with a commercial activity and at forty-three years of age and three children got on the bike, managing with dignity to support his family. The piecework has been mentioned; the children, to tell the truth, in the Commission did not ask for piecework, but to evaluate the meritocracy. Fully different visions of life. However, I liked to let Senator Laforgia know that even on this side of the House there is someone who cares about the workers, who has always done so and that it is certainly not an exclusive feature of the left. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] One thing that we particularly care about as Brothers of Italy is the inadmissibility of our amendments, those of Senator Balboni among the many identical to those presented during the approval of citizenship income. I agree with Senator Martelli that yesterday the rapporteur, Senator Girotto, gave us a lesson in life by explaining to us the immense world of reasons why we could not table these amendments, saying that they were neither part of the citizenship income nor part of the measure under our scrutiny. I read only a part of the report annexed to the provision in which it is said to be "in consequence" the repeal of article 12, paragraph 4, of the decree-law 28 January 2019, converted, with modifications, from the law 28 March 2019, n. 26th, which is that of the income of citizenship. So not solicited, but changed. However, this is now the hypocritical House because when the Saracen case happened they tore all their clothes and said that they would provide and intervene because it was no longer supposed to happen. In fact, they didn't intervene, they didn't do anything and they didn't even let us do it and put an end to citizenship income, criminals, rapists and terrorists. I think this is really proof of the hypocrisy of the government. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] The good aspect of the decree-law, which at first was not there, is the stabilization of the precarious ANPAL. It's a long story. I have listened to my colleagues in the Democratic Party to stress the realization of this measure in tones of victory. The nice thing is that the first opinions that came to us from the government on an amendment that I had tabled together with Senator Garnero Santanchè and an amendment of Senator Parente on this stabilisation, were opposed. Then, - miracles of life - with the very long negotiation that saw again the comedy of the continuous referrals of the Commissions, it was only said that they expected the covers, but in reality they were giving it a godly reason [[Applause from the FdI Group),]] and then arrive at the results we have seen with the amendment that replaces the entire decree-law and on which trust has been placed. Perhaps because recognizing merits on the right becomes a problem for which the opinion is negative on our proposals and then, in the night, opinions are changed. Another thing I have heard in these days is that within the measure there was a fair amendment that proposed to remove the definition Ministry of the family and disability; a Ministry that the government, just arrived, removed. What has left me most stunned is that someone, I don't remember who, said that the associations of the world of disability are content that there is no longer this Ministry. I have the presumption of knowing for many reasons the world of disability and I have never found anyone happy because, when it was established, many of the world of disability had said that finally a specific Ministry would take care of their problems, also because, often and willingly, we remember disabled people in the electoral campaign, and then we will see. I therefore believe that this measure has been really upset in some points because - I repeat - it was the result of a negotiation among the many; a decree-law that, as I said at the beginning, placed the majority within the game of distinctions: this is good because we intervened, but the other part was made by the yellow-green government, so on that, for goodness sake, we must do differently, so we distance ourselves from it while voting in favour. We come to the corporate crises because in these days we have only talked about Whirlpool and Ilva, but we have forgotten the more than 160 open tables; we have forgotten the workers of Mercatone Uno, the workers of Bluetec, hung from the decision to appoint an extraordinary administrator. We have forgotten the many words that Minister Di Maio had said about Whirlpool, reassuring the workers, that since 1 November in fact they are at home, accepting what today the owner of Whirlpool comes to tell us, that the decline of orders and productivity do not justify the plant in Naples, when we all know that in Whirlpool headquarters in Slovakia they do massacred shifts, including Saturday and Sunday, to keep at bay the demand for production. Therefore, Europe is helping all the countries of the East for industrial development; on the other hand, we are bitterly suffering the consequences. Perhaps, beyond the intervention of Minister Patuanelli - I too associate myself with the many words of esteem of these days - beyond the passion with which he exposed the situation in his speech yesterday, I have not noticed an idea of how we will end up with the corporate crises, namely the position of the Government in the merit, especially for the idea of a new country that, as has been recalled, is composed of a population that has always wanted to work, to emerge, that has always been ahead in terms of creativity and ability to work. We are very unconfident and very hopeful that you will go home as soon as possible. For all the reasons set out above, clearly the Brothers of Italy Group will never be able to vote for this Government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] [[The Senators of the FdI Group display signs bearing the words: "Never with the PD never with the 5 Stars". Senator Zuliani exhibits a sign bearing the inscription "Ilva".]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u72	Please remove the signs! Assistants intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u73	[[Applause from the FdI Group]] You don't respond to the cartel with a sign but with a few expulsions, do you, Senator Barbaro?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u76	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by trying to reassure my fellow Members of the Brothers of Italy: they are not taking this risk, because we will never dare to make any government with them. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Today we are here and we are going to vote for a trust that expresses in a very special way - I believe paradigmatic - the characteristics of necessity and urgency that hold together the new majority of government. A majority, ours, which has been operating in an economic context weakened by the slowdown in global growth and on which the axe that cuts further growth estimates falls down, if it is true - as is true - what is stated in the International Monetary Fund document. A majority faced with a loss of 0.9 percentage points of GDP in a single year, which has cemented itself - we have reiterated this, but it is right to repeat it - on the need to avoid the increase in VAT and to try to get the country out of the droughts of a recession, as well as on the urgent need to tighten a democratic front in response to the becero-sovereignist spasms of those who invoked full powers for themselves. Well, today the conversion process of Decree-Law 101, which we inherited from the previous Executive, is closed, forced to a reduced examination time because it was issued on September 3, a few days after the oath of the new Government Count. It has therefore been partly sacrificed in the whole process of forming the new Executive. This is a targeted measure, which includes important measures, although detailed, both to protect the work (I am thinking of the burning issue of riders and, more generally, the workers of the gig economy), and to deal with situations of complex company crisis, with delicate repercussions on employment and industrial production. But it is above all a measure that has undergone the change of pace of the new majority, gathering its new political approach. Under this new lens, therefore, the provisions introduced should be read, for example to strengthen the meshes placed to guarantee workers in some areas of complex industrial crisis, providing for an extension of the Cassa Integrazione Guadagni extraordinaryi, or of the treatments of mobility by way of derogation (which has been tried to allocate, where possible, also additional resources). I am also thinking of the strengthening of the cooperation structure between the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies, established to monitor policies aimed at combating the decline of the productive apparatus. But it's not enough. The measure under consideration begins to translate into legislative acts that green new deal that we have given ourselves as a qualifying element of the government program. It does so with the changes made to the regulation of the cessation of the refusal qualification (the end of waste), thanks to which it will be possible to resume numerous activities of recycling of waste of urban and industrial origin and to realize new activities and plants useful to counter further repercussions on the environment, on the health of citizens and on the costs of waste management. This is a great success of this majority, which remedys the failure that the previous group had given us. A success that allows us to affirm that, finally, the circular economy starts also in our country: a blocked sector, that blocked investments and employment prospects and that today will be less exposed to the risk of mafia infiltrations. Our success, then, but there is more. The focus on green economy policies has also resulted in the commitment to proposals for incentives in its favour, such as those related to energy efficiency and seismic risk reduction interventions, as well as the installation of plants based on the use of renewable energy sources. This is also due to the fact that the last regulatory intervention carried out - the so-called growth decree - has created extreme uncertainty among the operators in the sector, who were in a situation of restriction of competition, with serious damage to the small and medium-sized enterprises that constitute - it should be remembered - the majority of the sector. The criticalities encountered by the operators during the hearing and which I had already reported in a trade union inspection act have been recognized by the Minister of Economic Development, whom I thank, who shared with us the need to identify, in the next law of stability, the appropriate seat for the amendment and revision, complete and appropriate, of Article 10. Finally, the issue that has always been thorny and complex concerning Ilva, the industrial crisis area linked to the serious environmental problems that need to be addressed and resolved. More than anyone, for a good period of time, thought he could ask Taranto to play the game of the tower between the right to health and that to work, as if the one excluded the other or, even worse, as if the presence of the one equals the absence of the other. Nothing more wrong. When one of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution threatens to fail, it is the task of politics to bring together initiatives and instruments to curb what could become a constitutional hemorrhage. In the case of Ilva there was also those who thought and promised, for so long, that the simplest solution would be to cancel, cancel, annihilate an occupational reality that involves 25,000 workers, rather than reform; a cure equal to the disease, nothing more wrong. But that was yesterday. Today, instead, we find ourselves, both for a mismanagement of this crisis and for the contingency of the times dictated by this decree, in the condition of being able to affect the topic with a commitment, from the whole Government, in the sign of constitutional principles not reducible: right to work and right to health, but also to the environment, as have already remembered the many young people who have manifested also in Taranto. In this sense, the words of Minister Patuanelli here yesterday in this Chamber comfort us, because they confirm the Government's will to move forward without hesitation; words and commitments on which we will watch with great responsibility, knowing that there is no alternative to guaranteeing that indispensable productive contribution to our industrial system. We, in order to strengthen this approach, strongly wanted to accompany the measure with an agenda, through which we relaunch on the one hand the commitment to a progressive decarbonisation of the plants, in the general and Community framework of restructuring industrial processes, and on the other we call for guarantees for the permanence of the productive activity of the steel complex, because the right to work and that to health a civil country, a democratic Republic never barters them; it keeps them together and does not subject them to a shouted and instrumental discussion only to consensus. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Allow me then to make an inscription on the famous criminal protections. The idea of changing the rules that have marked a difficult negotiation, which has allowed in any case to assure that area the most important environmental intervention in Europe, simplifying everything in a trivial discussion between immunity or non-immunity, risks concealing the relevance and complexity of the issue. For this reason, our sense of responsibility leads us not to deny the work done so far, but rather to relaunch it in a logic of renewed relationship with the new managerial structure, more constructive and more incisive. At the end of the day - and I finish, Mr President - the government has changed, the majority that supports it has changed, the ArcelorMittal summit that manages the former ILVA has changed. There are therefore sufficient reasons for what we can call a pit stop, but on one condition, Minister: to move forward and not to go back. From this point of view, then, yesterday's inauguration in Taranto of the research and development center is an important step, because it respects the points of that agreement. That's why we, out of a sense of responsibility, today as a Democratic Party will vote convinced of the trust in this decree-law, the same responsibility that in August made us say "before Italy" which is quite different from the slogan "before the Italians," all the more so when it is shouted by the beach or printed on the sweatshirt. It is an empty slogan that, even here today, with a vow of responsibility, we return deflated to sovereignistic and dangerous demagogy. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u77	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo řL. van Beethoven of Casaluce, in the province of Caserta, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u80	NISINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would like to tell you a story: April 2019 ran when the then Minister of Economic Development, Labour and Social Policy Di Maio - because now he has chosen something else, we do not know whether to promote directly or to limit damage [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] - announced that the norm on riders was finally ready and that he had managed to sit at the same table all the actors in the field, in order to protect the workers from a contract in which - in his opinion - it is only the employers who dictate the economic conditions. The months of April, May, June, July, August, September and October have passed and, paraphrasing the great Vasco, we are still here, eh already! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] At last we come to today, to the conversion into law by this Assembly of the decree-law that should (or better had) protect the work and resolve the corporate crises. Spring is over, summer is over, autumn is here and all of you will be thinking, a bit like in Pinocchio's fairy tale, that everyone lived happily ever after. No, you don't! The truth is that they are all angry, so much so that the riders are always in the squares protesting. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] To the former Minister of Economic Development, Labour and Social Policy Di Maio and the new Minister of Labour navigator Catalfo I would like to ask if they have realized that they have managed to displease all the actors involved, both the riders and the employers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is obvious, colleagues of the Democratic Party and the 5 Star Movement, that you continue to follow your path with myopia and arrogance. Dear colleagues of the Democratic Party and the Movimento 5 Stars, unlike you, the League will continue to argue that that of the riders is a contract that must have at its base flexibility, because the protection of workers for us starts precisely from listening to their needs, precisely from the data of AssoDelivery, the association of category of Italian food delivery companies, that perhaps many of you have not even looked or read and that give an interesting split of the sector in question. The riders employed in cities where the platform services are active are about 20,000; their average age is 27 years and 75 percent are students or have another job. The riders perform their performance on average for 15 hours a week and 70% work with the platforms for less than six months, also receive an average hourly earnings of between 6 and 16 euros gross and platforms guarantee insurance against accidents and damages to third parties. If data is not an opinion, then what you are about to approve is not what workers want, it is not what employers want, it is not what unions want. In short, it's a bit like this government: nobody wants it at all! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That of riders, in fact, is a flexible activity by its very nature and it is not by chance carried out by people who really need such flexibility. For this reason, the League had proposed improvement measures, including one in particular: remove the reference: "to a prevalent extent", an opening to insurance also by private insurance, without prejudice to the possibility of choosing an INAIL insurance; the introduction of additional road safety safeguards and transparency on the assessment and remuneration of riders and finally details for which the additional protections do not constitute an index of subordination. These changes, as proposed by us, would have allowed the closure of agreements in an area not yet represented by existing trade unions and employers' organizations. And don't worry, such legislation already exists in France, so even with Europe you would have been fine and your friends should not have been worried about anything. Dear colleagues from Movimento 5 Stars and PD, you have probably become too used to the palace and have not heard or read what the riders have been telling us for months, because it is precisely the workers, as we have already reminded you, who say that the application of this legislation that wants to prohibit piecework and to equate riders to employed workers further worsens their situation. You have to start with a premise: "bad" is not a bad word. The piecework is one of the forms of remuneration provided for in our civil code and to use it in a negative way, as a certain political part has been doing for months, is neither a solution nor a respectful form towards workers. Whether there is a minimum guaranteed for the same can be fine, especially in some time slots where, without receiving proposals for delivery, they might otherwise have no entry. But the piecework remains for them a guarantee of being able to earn and introduce a minimum prevailing time or, even, exclusive risk of decreasing the compensation instead of increasing them, causing many of them to lose their job. 14.30 a.m. (Nisini followed). Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to discuss what has been done with the amendment relating to Senator Calderoli's citizenship income, which you have declared inadmissible on the subject. I would like the citizens who are listening to us to know, in fact, that our amendment had a very specific purpose: to ensure that, in the event of a final conviction for certain crimes, the person concerned could not in any way request the payment of the income of citizenship. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We are very much asking that a person who has condemned not only cannot claim the income he has already enjoyed in the past, but cannot submit even a first request and if the income of citizenship has its value is to help people who are good and in economic difficulties, uncondemned and brigatists. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I repeat: it is not for convicts and brigadeists! Not the one who killed the men and women of the state! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would like to remind Senator Pharaoh - who was probably engaged with NGOs at that time and did not follow a 100 quota - that 100 does not provide for the pension to be paid to sentenced, Brigatists and murderers because the League has committed itself to ensuring that they do not receive them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] President, allow me to conclude with a nod to the corporate crises, a theme that has always been the Movimento 5 Stars seems to have at heart. In Italy there are currently about 160 corporate crises, one of which is the famous Whirlpool case, which also affects me closely being involved in the event also the Siena plant. Also on this occasion the former Minister of Labour and Economic Development Di Maio stated that an ad hoc standard was already ready to save the company. Too bad that, instead, the company has widely stated that such measures are insufficient, that the table convened with the President of the Council Conte and the minister Patuanelli has ended with nothing de facto, with the workers who to date have only a certainty: on 1 November the company closes. You see, President, it doesn't surprise me: what can be expected from a Government that among the thousand ideas has proposed to tax corporate SIMs, not considering that, apart from that of the owner, the others are used by commercials, buyers, managers in general, employees in guarantee interventions and many others? These are people who cannot be asked to use their personal mobile phones for work reasons, but probably in the majority few know what the term "work" means. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This government seems to be blind to changes in the productive and economic world. Colleagues, governments have only one option: to create the right conditions for a company in our country to function and continue to create jobs. Are you doing this? I do not believe: very expensive electricity; heavy bureaucracy; fiscal penalty, which this Government continues to add, day after day, wanting to download to the companies also the chamber costs. Pure madness! Dear colleagues, you should examine your conscience and ask yourself whether the corporate crises that you so much say you want to resolve are not actually not only a consequence of possible business mistakes, but also your unsound choices that create unsustainable operating conditions. If you like, let's talk about Ilva, the great battlehorse of Minister Di Maio. Colleagues of the Movimento Stars, tell me what happened to the article on Ilva? It's been repealed! Dear citizens, do you know what that means? That the priorities are no longer you, it is no longer the Ilva, it is no longer the workers, but it is only their armchairs. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] For this reason, a special thanks goes to the former minister, whom I would not call for the South but anti-South minister, Lezzi. In fact, with the repeal of Article 14, this Government does only a great pleasure to ArcelorMittal, who after having freed himself of the properties in Piombino, will now have in hand the best possible justification to get rid of Ilva and finally get our country out of the steel market, giving production to the Turks. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And we're never gonna get the money for the reclamations and the recovery of the area. So, gentlemen, let's remember: we will have another Bagnoli case and you will have wanted it. The previous government was working to help businesses, all small artisans, small and medium-sized enterprises, the economic fabric on which our country is based. You? What are you thinking? Are you already focused on the next major business crisis that will come with the tax decree? Let's talk about taxes and allow me to write down an inscription. I would like to remind Mr Aretina Boschi that on Sunday at Leopolda he said that the PD is the tax party, that to support this Government there is also Italy Viva, there is also you, there are all of you! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You have filled your mouth with the environment, but in the reform will be penalized those who in times not suspect had invested in renewable energy. There will be revenues for the state for about 123 million euros. The plastic tax is liable to penalise our companies: a government revenue of one billion for 2020, two billion for 2021. With the tax on beverages of 10 euros per dime there is a revenue for the State of 200 million euros. With the adjustment of the parameters that will hit VAT matches itself there is a revenue for the State of 3 billion euros for 2020. Finally, new taxes on the house: increase of the dry coupon on the rents and increase of the cadastral tax. Nothing. It's all right. You're just creating the tax country. But a curiosity you have to take it from me: will you also charge tuna cans? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u81	Conclude, Senator Nisini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u82	NISINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'll finish. Let it be clear, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not want in any way to be accomplices to those who leave 25,000 families on the street, to those who protect with the income of brigadist and criminal citizenship, to those who do not listen to workers, betraying them in the name of other interests. Our initial intention was to cast an abstention vote. We have had a cooperative attitude in the Commissions, which has also been recognised by our colleagues in the majority. But after turning back on rider and Ilva the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-PSd'Az will vote firmly against. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u85	Toffanin (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the colour of the Government has changed, from the Giallorossi, the Government of Change, to the Giallorossi, the Government of the turning point. But what is the turning point? The turning point is to put the question of trust in the first real measure of this Government, which means that, as soon as it was born, the Giallorossi Government can survive only with the threat of going home. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] A trust placed after continuous delays to the last useful moment and with the most complete opacity on the contents. In short, the House votes in a closed box, take or leave, without knowing what you take and what you leave behind. We have been working for days on a text that has been changed with the Government's amendments in the Commission; now everything is transformed into a maxi amendment of which we have neither the time nor the opportunity to evaluate the content, let alone to amend it. And luckily, the triggers, the majority shareholders of this Government (as of the previous one), have always bogged down as champions of transparency; at the beginning (but only at the beginning) even advocates of live streaming always and anyway. Where has transparency gone? Has it been replaced by the glue for power? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Even the practice and timing with which the measures were examined in Parliament have not changed: the timing of the elections at the beginning, but then extended until the end of the decree-law to wait, as the custom of this legislature, for the political square of the Government. And just because the majority is not sure that they have the square, we must proceed with the vote of confidence (so much to mark the difference with the previous government). All this, as usual, restricting and severely penalising parliamentary action, which - I remember - is popular representation. We are very concerned, not only for this, but also because we see that there is a lack of an overall project and an organic vision of the future of our country. One cannot think of protecting workers by tightening up the labour market. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , without creating the conditions for professional and training growth adapted to new needs, dictated by the context. One cannot think, for example, of caging the delivery sector, that of the riders, which is precisely based on flexibility, with rules that inflict and risk destroying it. The world of work has changed and must be taken into account: recent Istat data have already shown you that tightening up the labour market is not good. In fact, if the number of employees has returned to pre-crisis levels, the total number of hours worked - as has already been well remembered - is lower: there are about 550 million hours to return to the ante-crisis level, ten years ago. Basically: there is less work, redistributed among more workers. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not growth for the country, it is much more. Moreover, the hours of overtime have decreased and the hours of Cassa Integrazione have increased. Let me remind you of some data, so you can understand the extent of the problem. In September 2019 there were 17.2 million hours of Cassa Integrazione, which means 51.9 percent more than in September 2018. For the extraordinary one, 11.5 million hours were allowed, i.e. 99.2 percent more than in September 2018. The number of people who not only do not work, but who do not even look for work, has also increased, in the face of the much-vaunted income of citizenship, so that billions of euros are spent in the debt of Italian citizens! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Precious resources, among other things, that also go in favour of those who hit the state and now the government has confirmed it. Other than relief for the poor: citizenship income is a welfare measure that discourages access to work. On the contrary, I correct myself: in fact, the income of citizenship serves, yes, to create jobs, but public work, in addition to that in black. I remember 1,003 jobs at the INPS to manage citizenship income practices: 1,003 jobs to manage a measure that will not work and that is not known how long it will last; then the navigators (3,000) and other professional figures that ANPAL needs to take care of employment centers. It seems, however, that even for this Government it is easier to create public work (such as the establishment of so many tables, agencies or Commissions, in short, so many armchairs) in every measure. I also recall the extension of the socially useful or useful work for 8,500 workers in Campania and Calabria, who have not yet been able to find a place, because work is not created on paper. 14:43 p.m. (Toffanin followed). And what did you think about the disabled? The establishment of an ad hoc fund in which individuals can voluntarily pay contributions is not only not enough to integrate disabled workers into the world of work, but in fact for the State it means circumventing its responsibilities, giving the appearance of wanting to take responsibility for it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Our country needs more than that. We need a genuine reform of the public administration, to understand the most appropriate skills and to streamline the bureaucratic procedures, a real sore point, since the cost of excessive bureaucracy has been estimated at about EUR 200 billion, which is twice the total estimated amount for tax evasion. Important training is needed to provide the skills needed by new industrial processes. We need a real vision of what is needed to do business not only today, but for the next few years. How does this government begin instead? Bartering the stabilization of the ANPAL precariousnesses wanted by LEU, PD and Italy Viva with the abolition of the criminal shield for the administrators of Ilva, imposed by the Movimento 5 Stars, that puts at risk the continuation of the activity of the company. Is this the best approach to protecting jobs, first and foremost those of the first industrial city of Puglia, with almost 20,000 workers, including the induced, and that the vote of confidence must shelter to avoid bad surprises, removing any credibility to our country? And then we wonder why companies relocate and investors avoid us? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] The numbers, as always, are representative, in this case of the corporate crises in our country, and unfortunately are merciless: the 138 active tables of January have become, according to the statements of Minister Patuanelli to the question time in Senate, about 158, with the involvement of more than 200,000 workers, although the same Minister has stated that he is not able to give the precise and total number of open tables. In fact it seems they have reached 180, with almost 250,000 workers involved, not to mention the crises at the territorial level. What we know for sure is that in a year and a half one that is one of the business crisis tables has not closed positively to the attention of MISE. In fact, the only table that has just been concluded is unfortunately the one relating to the Whirlpool in Naples, with the closure of the plant itself and the transfer to a company seems with some previous uncomfortable for the workers involved. Unfortunately, even in this measure there is absolutely nothing for the resolution of corporate crises, as is announced in the title of the decree-law. Of course, extending social shock absorbers in particular circumstances is essential to give workers oxygen. However, the draft resolution of a crisis cannot be exhausted with the support of workers in terms of Cassa Integrazione. We stigmatize the fact that nothing has been done by these last governments for a solution at the root of the problem, that is, for a true process of reindustrialization; only all micro measures not effective, some of which are also appreciable, while it is the same Minister who denounces the absence of an industrial design for Italy, which is the second manufacturing country of Europe. The previous government, rather than favoring businesses, especially medium and small, fly in our economy, has rowed against and has launched measures such as Article 10 of the Decree-Law on Growth, so companies in the sector must act as banks to the State by anticipating the incentives for restructuring. But does that seem to you to be the way forward? This problem has also not been addressed or resolved. We have only managed to get our agenda approved, and companies can no longer afford referrals. For our country the situation is very serious. The Italian situation is not stable and with governments that do not face policies in favour of the company facilitates the process of relocation, which has become alarming. The last year was characterized by policies, which we hoped now relegated to an anachronistic past, of substantial centralization, statisticalization and stiffening of the whole system. The present Government, the leftmost of the Italian Republican History, unfortunately does not seem directed to change perspective, indeed. And continuing on this slope will succeed in the company to do more damage to the Italian economy than the great international crisis. But remember, ladies and gentlemen: one thing is to solve the problems of the survival of the majority and the government with one confidence, another is to earn it, that trust, with the voters who will come back to vote sooner or later. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Therefore, the Forza Italia Group, not in a preliminary way, but for the good of the country, will vote against this measure but above all against this Government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u88	ANASTASI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, at last we are going to vote in this House on a measure whose course has been as short as it was troubled, born with the previous majority of government and arrived at us late, because of the well-known Augustan events. The conversion of this decree-law was therefore neither due nor taken for granted, but this majority wanted to face with courage its first test. A certainly positive break-in for the joint work of the Government, the Commissions and the rapporteur, whom I thank. Of course, there have been moments of tension and normal confrontation. We have also allowed ourselves the luxury of including in this provision what I call three twists, which we will see. This decree-law puts into practice what the Movement theorizes from its birth, that is, a synthesis, almost a combined arrangement, between Articles 32 and 35 of the Constitution (for those who did not remember them, protection of work and health protection), lately increasingly opposed to the changes that have occurred in the economy, in the world of work and in civil society of the last twenty years. The Movimento 5 Stars wants to reverse this trend which has seen a slow and constant contraction of workers' rights. It is no coincidence, in fact, that in the summer of 2018 our first measure was the approval of the decree of dignity. The majority changes, but not our idea of protecting an army of invisible, fragmented, poorly trade unionized workers with composite needs, ranging from those who do occasional work to those who make it an ongoing profession and want to remain in this status. For the first time in the history of this Republic, let us address the question of the workers of the so-called gig economy. We do this by allowing them to have access to minimum social security, welfare, accident and occupational guarantees. Still on the protection front, we intervene by changing the requirements for access to unemployment and allowing access to collective bargaining in a prevailing way. So let's definitely send to the attic that sort of disguised piecework that unfortunately has marked, in recent years, relationships of work for nothing equal; we pull them out, in short, from that limbo that had made them invisible and - pass me the English-speaking term - expendable, that is, expendable. Let's get all Italian workers out of this limbo. The decree-law is not limited to the protection of riders. In fact, today we also intervene on fixed-term contracts in ANPAL, giving INPS the possibility to assume over 1,000 precarious throughout the national territory and this is good news, good news for the stabilized workers and for the operation of the INPS itself. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We also guarantee funds for social shock absorbers for those workers in complex industrial crisis areas who are unfortunately experiencing a serious crisis in areas such as Sicily, Sardinia and Molise. Article 8 also deals with disabled workers. In fact, we give private individuals the opportunity to feed the fund for the right to work dedicated to them, born twenty years ago to encourage the recruitment of people with disabilities. Finally, I would like to mention, for the part relating to the protection of workers and the productive sector, Article 12, which strengthens the structures of connection between the Ministry of Labour and the MISE, assuming 12 units specialised in the crisis of enterprise and development of the same, because the idea of Minister Di Maio to increase the synergy between the two ministries is winning and must be pursued by every means. Thus, when the part concerning the protection and the crisis of the enterprise is stored, we are finally talking about economic development. In this regard, in this decree-law we are witnessing the first real twist, namely the end of waste amendment, which is the result of the joint work of our colleague Vilma Moronese and Minister Costa, which lasted over a year. The Regions and the Provinces, following precise criteria determined by the State, may grant or renew authorizations to the cessation of the qualification of refusal, passage necessary for the same to return to be either a product or a material to be put on the market. In this way we overcome the stalemate that has been caused by the old Ministerial Decree of 1998. Colleagues, the world has changed and so are waste and what had to be dumped and buried, is now raw material: with this measure we reactivate entire production chains that generate thousands of jobs; with this measure, we put in place the environmental vision of the Movement. A measure that represents a formidable economic flywheel, as well as a lifestyle oriented towards sustainability. Colleagues, rejection must be valued, not burned as I have sometimes heard in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A recycled tonne, as I have heard in this House, is worth ten times a ton burned and there are countless jobs in that difference in financial value, there is wealth, there is a cleaner and healthier environment. Because if someone still doesn't understand it, our planet is a closed system and what we produce, sooner or later, we either eat it or drink it or breathe it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Dismissed - excuse the play of words - the first twist of the scene, in the decree-law under consideration we also thought of the maintenance of the Italian photovoltaic park, introducing proportionality criteria on fines imposed on operators of plants, which went to sanction for reasons of little account and therefore risked having to abandon the activity for excessive sanctioning by the State. As promised, we arrive at Article 14, the second twist, which provides for the repeal of the immunity of penalties for the managers and conductors of the Taranto steel works. This is the typical example of what was said in the preamble, namely the mutually exclusive dualism between Articles 32 and 35 of the Constitution. The abolition of criminal immunity is not punitive towards someone, but it is the first true, strong and unequivocal signal that, in Italy, work and health are integrated and inseparable parts. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We owed this certainty to the Apulians, to the owners of the plant, to the entrepreneurs who operate there and to all the workers. We must guarantee quality work, quality products - including steel, of course - and health: this is what Italian policy, all of it, is called upon to achieve. Closed also the second twist, we talk about how we continue, in our vision, to combine environment and development. With the Energy and Climate Plan, launched in 2019 by our Government, and with the Action Plan for the improvement of air quality, signed by President Conte, we have launched measures for environmental protection and the fight against climate change. In line with these measures, Article 13 deals with the redistribution of gas emission allowances, the so-called ETS legislation. The resources in question are intended to finance decarbonisation and energy efficiency measures in the industrial sector, to reduce the cost of energy for companies subject to ETS regulations and to finance measures to support the conversion of jobs in areas where coal-fired power stations are located. In short, with this measure, we will give greater competitiveness to our companies, which is no small thing, for a transforming country like ours. Finally, the third twist: we commit ourselves, Government and Parliament, with a tight and shared agenda, to modify Article 10 of the growth decree, which, while starting from noble intentions, that is, to promote the interventions of energy efficiency in the civil sector, which it has also done, has created several criticalities for small artisan companies, as pointed out by the trade associations and the Garante of competition and the market. Mr Patuanelli, in this House, has already guaranteed that he will bring the tables of confrontation to the Ministry, for a definitive solution to the first useful measure and the same did President Girotto in the 10th Commission. Finally, with Article 15 we intervene on the Fund saves works in order to give concrete implementation to the decree unblocks yards, in order to finance not only the entrusted of the works, but also to guarantee the subcontractors of the same, thus favoring the restart of the intense activities and the completion of indispensable public works. Protection of workers, protection of labour, protection of health, protection of businesses, protection of public works: all this contains the decree-law under consideration and, for this reason, I announce the vote in favour of the measure and the confidence of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u89	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u90	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 101, 3 September 2019, on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Saponara is drawn by lot). Some senators have asked to vote first, and I have granted it, also in connection with previous calls from the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services and the Parliamentary Security Committee of the Republic. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Saponara. NISINI, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, they take over the Presidency - at 15,34 p.m. - at 15,43 p.m.) The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bini, Boldrini, Bottici, Botto, Bressa, Bucharella Country, Cario, Casini, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Catalfo, Cioffi, Cirinnà, Collina, Coltorti, Incipini, Conzatti, Corbetta, Corrado, Crimi, Croatti, Crucioli, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Bonis, De Falco, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Desì, Girolamo, Di Marzio, Di Micco, Ferrari, Di Piazza, Donno, Drago, Durnwalder Endrizzi, Errani, Evangelista Faraone, Evangelistaone, Lucy, Girolamo, Girolamo, Di Marzio, Féli, Ferrari, Ferrari, Ferrari PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900 (correct text), entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 101, 3 September 2019, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 278 Senators voting 278 Majority 140 Favorable 168 Contrari 110]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law 101.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u93	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, I imagine that you have all had the opportunity to see on television or to read in the newspapers what is happening in Liguria and in Lower Piedmont. Once again a territory terribly affected; in these months it is almost an appointment unfortunately customary and annual. The situation, which at other times has been more dramatic in terms of human lives, also this time records two deaths (come to the territory of Piedmont), many displaced, rivers that exondano, landslides. There are situations of great difficulty even in small municipalities where all the problems that local administrators know are encountered in order to intervene. I would like to bring to the attention of the Senate the situation that - I imagine - has not escaped anyone, but also remind the government of the need to intervene. Yesterday, however, Prime Minister Conte went to the Alexandrine, met the mayors, immediately the head of civil protection worked; as always, the rescue machine started and, as soon as possible, we must resolve the emergency and give the first support to those who have suffered damage. In addition to the solidarity with those who are experiencing these situations, I would like to bring a question that concerns not only emergencies and not even the short time, but the need for a long look on a territory that unfortunately is often fragile in Italy, where the hydrogeological failure becomes a dramatic problem. In Genoa, money was found in previous governments for important works, for example, for the scalmator of Bisagno. The mayor called back the fact that in addition to this scalmer, they would need more for other rivals. Investment has been made, some of which are proving to have an important function, but that is not enough because you know how Liguria is made: a narrow territory between mountains and sea, extremely urbanized, where the rain arouses a lot of worry. The particular attention I wanted to bring to this House today concerns the area of the Alexandrian, the Ovadese and the low Piedmont, where unfortunately important interventions, which need, have not been made. Do you all remember the tragedy of 1994, which recorded more than 70 victims and a terrible situation? More recently in the Alexandrian we continued to have problems; in 2014 there was again a terrible flood, with disastrous effects, in the same areas where it happened this time; similar situation happened in 2016. The municipality of Novi Ligure, also supported by the then regional junta, had highlighted the need to create a drainer, because then when these events happen, it is clear where it is necessary to enlarge so that the river does not exonerate. Moreover, they had also proposed to use a small part of the savings on the variant of the third pass, thus saving that had been made, in order to achieve the work. People in those areas are desperate; they look at what happened to their homes, they look at the mud that invaded everything, they also look at the dead that there was and they wonder how it could happen again in the same places and in the same way. Trust in the state thus fails. I am therefore asking you to reconsider this proposal, which seems to me to be of common sense, which is designed to ensure that a small part of the savings, which I have yet to see, on the work of the third crossing point are used for the security of the territory. I wanted to say this in this House, but I repeat that I will put a question to the Government because, as well as commemorating the victims, remembering the disasters and expressing solidarity, we are also called upon to make proposals so that certain facts do not happen again, as unfortunately every year or two, in those territories instead. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u96	Mr Berutti (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer back to what my colleague said about what happened from Sunday to night between Monday and Tuesday, when very violent and persistent storm phenomena have struck Piedmont and Liguria, which have caused a real flood. By the way, tonight is again alert; therefore, the situation becomes more and more difficult. I asked to intervene today first of all to remember a friend, Fabrizio Torre, citizen who, because of this devastating wave of bad weather, lost his life in the province of Alexandria, and another person is missing. Of course, there is hope that there will still be some open opening. I am sure that this House would like to join in remembering and expressing its deepest condolences to the family. A message of closeness must then be addressed to the many displaced, to those who have lost their things, to the agricultural world, which once again faces the umpteenth challenge, and which, unfortunately, many times, in the post-flood phase, has to deal with the damage and the fact that nothing is recognized, due to the laces and laces systematically placed by the reference bodies. We will work hard to ensure that the management of the following is shared - as my colleague rightly said - and that the institutions guarantee, starting from the declaration of the state of emergency, all the necessary support and tools for no one to be left alone, even in the light of the presence of President Conte last night in the prefecture in Alexandria with President Cirio. The damage caused by water in these days and the consequences of temporal phenomena would certainly have been even more serious if in the management of the emergency we had not been able to count on Civil Protection - which is now truly becoming a fundamental pivot of our country - the Forces of the Order as well as the Fire Departments, volunteers and administrators who, with self-denial and sense of community, have worked tirelessly to manage the most difficult hours of this emergency. To them can only go the most heartfelt and deepest thanks. If there is one thing that the bad weather of the last few hours shows is how much environmental issues must be at the center of our attention: the increasingly intense weather phenomena and the scarcity of resources to which administrators are forced are becoming a structural condition on which it is mandatory to intervene. Not to mention the difficulties of intervention on the cleanliness of the rivers. The disasters caused by bad weather are evident to all: highways and trains blocked between Genoa, Turin and Milan demonstrate how the low Piedmont is central for the connections between Liguria, Lombardy, the North of the Country and Europe. Any initiative, any intervention must therefore give priority to this natural and fundamental junction for the country. The intervention on the short period in order to cope with the emergency must therefore be accompanied by a wide-ranging plan on infrastructures and watercourses, especially the smallest ones, which are more and more confirmed unable to cope with the serious and now structural temporal phenomena that touch our territories. In the face of events such as those that have involved our territories and our fellow citizens, it is necessary for politics to be up to its level and to follow concrete and rapid action. [[Applause from Senator Pinotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u99	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is the anniversary of the battle of El Alamein. On October 23, 1942, in the evening, about 1,000 cannons of the British and allied forces opened fire on the Italian lines, and from there began that terrible battle. More than 5,000 children died, who will be forever eighteen, twenty, thirty years old. It was a huge tragedy. I specifically wanted to remind them in this institutional forum so that they would not be forgotten, so that their sacrifice would not be forgotten. I think it is right of this House to do so. They built a strong resistance: the Italian troops really distinguished themselves for value, in particular the divisions Folgore, Pavia, Aries, Littorio, Trieste. They wander with great courage. They even fought with their bare hands when they finished their ammunition and tried to block the advance of the armored vehicles by affixing the anti-tank mines with their own hands, sticking them with the fat they had taken from the engines. In that battle we cannot fail to remember the Regia Aeronautica, what he did and its value. I also remember that I wouldn't be here if my father hadn't been there, who was an assault pilot officer. That's why I want to honor the fallen of that desperate resistance right now. He defended himself - I want to remember - not only a hole, but, between the hot sands of the desert and with his eyes and mouth full of dust, honor and Italy, regardless of any political assessment. El Alamein was a sacred symbol of our history. I believe that not only I, in a personal way, and our Group, but the whole House do well to remember that youth, boys who fought with an unimaginable resistance. Churchill had commendable words for those boys, saying: "We really must bow down to the remains of what remains of the lions of the Folgore (...)." In the evening at the BBC he declared that the last survivors of the Folgore had been surveyed in the desert. The Folgore fell with guns in hand. Now there I am presiding over in the shrine of El Alamein for eternity, not now the glory of our homeland. I remember that when military virtues are lost, civil virtues are also likely to be lost and, consequently, freedom is often lost. Let's never forget it. [[Applause from Senators Cangini and Pinotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that on Wednesday 30 October the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Di Maio, gave his willingness, from 10 a.m. to 12 noon, to make communications in relation to Syria.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u101	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-158.ana.u102	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 29 October, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.13 a.m.
