ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 18.06 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Castaldi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 7 August. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u3	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. The Conference of Leaders, which met yesterday afternoon, approved changes to the current timetable, stating by a majority that on Tuesday 20 August, at 3 p.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make communication on the current political crisis.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u4	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 12 August 2019, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar: [[Tuesday 13 August 18 - President's announcements on the agenda]] [[Tuesday 20 August 15 - Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers]] The ordinary activity of the Commissions will resume from Monday 2 September, without prejudice to the authorization to convene in August at any time in relation to the needs in matters within its competence. [[Tuesday, 10 September 12,30-20 - Drawing of Law No. 1144 and related - Detachment of municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna region (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law No. 728 - Promotion of small food productions of local origin (from the drawing-house) - Drawing of Law No. 1110 - Participation in dairy companies (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (from the drawing-up-house) - Drawing of Constitutional Law No. 1124 - Repeal of constitutional provisions relating to the CNEL (first resolution of the Senate) - Ratification of international agreements defined by the Foreign Affairs Commission - Drawing of Law No. 787 - Electrical means in airport hubs (from the drawing-house) - Drawing of Law No. 867 - Safety for exhibitors of health professions (from the drawing-house) - Trade union inspection - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 12, 15 hours) Wednesday, 12, 12 "9,30-20-20 20 - Thursday, 12 "]] The week from 16 to 20 will be dedicated to the work of the Permanent Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u7	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the League confirms what we have already said at the Conference of the Leaders yesterday, in the sense that we ask the House to vote on a different timetable, because we believe that, given the political crisis that is taking place, very important, it is necessary to vote on our motion of no confidence tomorrow and, in order to respect the ceremonies on the tragedy of the Morandi Bridge, we ask that the sitting be held around 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u10	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, yesterday at the meeting of the group leaders, in which I took part with the other Vice Presidents of the Senate, we took note of the absolute unwillingness of a new - occasional (I hope) - majority to posterize the time when we could vote on the distrust, and we also learned of the desire not to schedule for tomorrow or next 20 August the motions of mistrust. Beyond the outcome of the vote that sees me sided - as my Parent Company will explain better - decidedly in line with President Romeo's proposal, I believe that we cannot help but change the agenda in its content, whatever the outcome of the outcome (14 August or 20 August). At the moment he says that there will be only communications from the President, as if it were not certain and certain that this Government, however it goes, does not exist anymore, and however pretending that it was not presented, indeed no motions of distrust have been presented, of which there is no trace on the agenda. Consequently, the proposal that I would like to make, Mr President, is to add to the statement by the President-in-Office of the Council, the words 'and related motions of distrust to the Government', which exist. I would not want us to do another group leader, on the assumption - not likely, but possible - in which President Conte, perhaps, despite the resolutions and despite the resignation or whatever you want, decides to say that he is not yet distrusted. I believe that tomorrow (if it passes tomorrow) or 20 (if it passes 20) it is appropriate, at the end of its statements, to provide for the vote on the motion of no confidence in the Government. This is the proposal that I would like to formalise.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u13	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, first of all, thank you for giving us the opportunity to be here. [[Ironic applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u14	Please, Senator Bernini. Go on.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u15	BERNINI (FI-BP). Thank you for giving us the opportunity to be here and to show who really wants to vote on the motion of no confidence to this Government, that is, who is true opposition and who is preparing new projects instead. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from the PD Group]] Projects absolutely contrary to the will of the people and aliens to the vote in this Parliament. Thank you. I truly thank you, for making clear what all of us already knew. President. - As I have already said in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I do not see why we should wait, as Italy is now clearly in the grip of a crisis of government, which should be as quickly as possible calendarized and not brought to the Greek calends: here we must talk about calendars, not calends, not delays and not tricks which obviously have very different objectives than those which are declared. All this, Mr President, we want to vote as quickly as possible on the motion of no confidence which has already been tabled to this Parliament. You see, Mr President, we are all now happy slaves to communication, because in part we are under it and in part we are using it. Well, I hear from those who should be opposed, but in reality they refuse to vote against or in favour of this motion of distrust (so against the Government and in favour of the motion of distrust), that there is great concern for the crisis that could grip an Italy prey to a crisis of government, there is a great concern for the economic fundamentals that could be disturbed by the lack of transparency and clarity that characterizes a period of crisis of government. They are all very concerned (all those who say they want to vote in favour of this motion of distrust, but in reality they do not want to schedule it) about what could happen to Italy if VAT were to increase, as already provided for in the budget law, which part of this House has also prepared. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That, Mr President, we are here - and there are 55 of us - to vote immediately in favour of this motion of distrust. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We ask, Mr President, that this timetable be followed by the vote on the motion of censure, because we are really opposed and the best way to avoid the provisional exercise and the increase in VAT is to make it clear at once. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. It's a joke! BERNINI (FI-BP). The joke, friends, will be seen next week, when the Bibbiano party and the "Vaffa Day" party will come together to rule Italy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from M5S and PD Groups]] FADELI (PD). Shame on you! Shame on you! BERNINI (FI-BP). That'll be the real joke! That will really be the laughable proposal. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But there will be little laughing, friends, because once again you will cut the word in the mouth of the Italians. You will prevent Italians from voting as it would be right for them to do so: this is the result that you want to achieve! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] President. - We shall then vote in favour of the two previous proposals and propose that we vote on the motion of censure. And here, friends of jokes, we challenge you to vote on the motion of no confidence in the end of the vote on the calendar. Those who are true opposition show that they are and vote in the right way. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u18	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the Group for the Autonomies will vote for the proposal that has met the majority at the Conference of the Leaders for simple reasons of common sense. The same party, which now urgently calls for the vote on the motion of no confidence for Count, only a week ago asked this House for confidence when the law of conversion of the security decree was passed. [[OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. (Applause from the Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV), M5S, PD and Mixed.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Bravo! Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator, go ahead. UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). You don't understand what happened in two days of so urgent to call all the senators in the week of August, during the holidays, to be here to vote on the calendar. The second reason is that the President-in-Office of the Council, as we know, has asked to be heard by Parliament and I believe that it is a matter of respect to give the President of the Council the opportunity to explain his reasons before we vote on the motion of no confidence, because it might also become superfluous. The third reason is that tomorrow, as we all know, is the anniversary of the collapse of the bridge in Genoa and I think the country would give a very bad image if, just tomorrow, the country split and the motion of distrust was voted. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), M5S and PD, and Senator Errani]] We therefore go to 20 August, we call on the House, we hear the President of the Council and then we will see whether the motion of no confidence is still necessary. Thank you. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u21	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, how far away are the rites of politics from the real country, which does not understand why - we have also heard this - the poor Members of Parliament should not be disturbed in Ferragosto. [[Lively protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Ferrari (PD). Buffoon! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please don't interrupt. [[Senator Cirinna shows on her screen a sign with the inscription: "Salvini" is enough state flights. Holidays paid for. #DIMETTITI" that is removed by the assistants.]] No sign! [[Senator Cirinna's protests.]] Senator Cirinna, please. Colleagues, let's talk. Everyone has the right to express what he believes. [[Lively protests from the PD Group.]] Please, Senator Salvini. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Since you have already won by Senator Renzi, I do not understand all this agitation, all this nervousness and all this rudeness. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups. Vivacious protests from the PD Group]] VALENT (PD). Respect Parliament! FARAONE (PD). He's been on vacation for two months! DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). On vacation with the police! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Listen to two minutes, two minutes of patience, that's all. Except I envy some tans there, but it's okay. [[Live comments from PD and Mixed Groups. Recalls of the President]] MALPEZZI (PD). But think of yours: you were at the Papeete until now! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I was saying... [[Live comments from PD and Mixed Groups. Recalls of the President]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u22	You can then replicate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u23	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I've got time late. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u24	You then have the right to reply. You've already booked Senator Marcucci, you'll have the right to respond to what you believe.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u25	MALPEZZI (PD). I don't care, you can't afford it. He was at the beach until the other day. But be ashamed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's already booked. Let's talk. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] That's not possible. You're welcome. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, President, but I'm not offended, you let them do what they think they're doing, that's not a problem. [[Comments from the PD Group]] May I? At least ten more seconds are available. Italy wants to have certainties and something more beautiful, democratic, transparent, linear, dignified that... CRUCIOLI (M5S). Breaking a contract. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). ...give the people the floor? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Give the word to the people: what is more beautiful? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I don't understand this fear, this terror, this despair. I understand from Senator Renzi: very understandable. If I were in him, I would act in the same way, because, with the disasters that he did, he knows that at the vote the Italians send him home definitely. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So rather than quit the chair, I'm here with Vinavil 24/7. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Understandable, humanly understandable. A number of proposals have come along: I welcome them. I have heard the friend and colleague Luigi Di Maio repeat more than once these days: we vote on the cut of 345 parliamentarians and then we go straight to the vote. I take it and raise it again: to the House Leaders, the League Leader will vote to anticipate the cut of the parliamentarians, it closes in beauty with the promise we had made to the Italians, they cut 345 parliamentarians and then, for dignity, honesty and consistency, we go straight to the vote. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] We're here. We're here. We're here. Deal. Deal. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I see that they are no longer applauding from the Democratic Party's benches, apparently. They stopped clapping. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] And some tans are dying out, too. [[Illarity from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] Let's go vote. We cut 345 Members of Parliament next week and then, Senator Renzi, I do not put my mandate in your hands, because I do not trust it, but I put it in the hands of the Italian voters, who are the only owners and custodians of the consent of this Parliament. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups. Comments from the PD Group]] CIRINNA' (PD). In Mattarella's hands. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Ready, we do not ask for better, also because first we vote, first there is a Parliament that appoints a government that goes on five years [[Laughter from PD and Mixed Groups]] , first they sterilize - and this is another incredible thing - the VAT increases that you invented with the Democratic Party governments. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Protests from the PD Group]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame! COMINANCES (PD). Your maneuver invented them! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). A little historical memory. A little historical memory. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] TARICCO (PD). Another mojito to talk better. [[Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u26	That way you don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u27	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). May I? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're welcome. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). It is fortunate that we have reinstated civic education as a compulsory subject of study on school benches. A delayed burst, but it could be useful for someone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]] VALENT (PD). Study constitutional law rather! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). These days, by choice, I have not responded to the flood of insults, slanders, threats. I'm used to it. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I'm used to it. When one, consciously, and I did it with pride, along with the President of the Lazio Region, Nicola Zingaretti, gave the first blow to the Casamonica villa, collecting in exchange death threats from the Casamonicas, you can say what you want, but don't scare me at all! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] You can scream. You can scream. You can insult: free everyone! Free everyone! Some testimony from planet Earth, different from planet Renzi: they are two different spindles. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. But you're obsessed! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Marco Bonometti, President of Confindustria Lombardia: "We must return to the polls. Do so as soon as possible." Maurizio Casasco, President of the Italian Confederation of Small and Medium Private Industry: "We need certainties and courageous measures. We'd better go to the election right away." Paolo Agnelli, President of Confimi Industria: "If we want to get out of this crisis, we need a strong maneuver. Right away in the election." VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Time! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). They're asking for time! And the good thing is that we would be the anti-democratic, the fascists, but they don't want to go and vote and they don't want people to talk. Agree yourselves! I've never met a fascist who wants to go to the elections and wants to give the people the floor. Agree with yourselves! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]] But I'm almost done. Leopoldo Destro, President of Assindustria Veneto Centro: "I vote now. No games. Stalemate doesn't help." Giovanna Ferrara, Chairman of Unimpresa: "Better the vote than unproductive agreements." I could go on for three quarters of an hour. I appeal to this House, to the dignity of this House: we can have different positions, I can blame someone for something and you certainly have every right to reproach me very much; I am not a perfect person, in fact, I make so many mistakes in my life, every day, and I try to make them in good faith. And when I see it, I apologize. One thing I do not fear, one, since I began to be a city councilman in Milan in 1993, without ever having a safe seat, like someone who was elected from Tuscany in Bolzano, but taking the votes of the citizens. Always taking the votes of the citizens, not running away from Arezzo to go to Tyrol, I didn't even know where it was! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]] So, that's the point: never afraid to listen to people. If people return to Matteo Renzi, I don't think, but this is democracy: good work President Renzi, even if the Italians have already tried his care and I don't think they appreciated it! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I'll say it and finish it. I understand the desperation of someone who is waging war within his party and is terrified of coming back to confront the voters. But if you're afraid of going to the voters, it means you have a dirty conscience and it means you're afraid you're not re-elected! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]] Who is afraid of the vote, has a dirty conscience and is afraid and, then, invents VAT, Martians, Fascists, Mojito, Papeete Beach. I didn't know it was a crime to go to the beach. But I learned that too. On the other hand, if I had not had the request to resign the Democratic Party daily, I would not have felt able to do the Minister of this country, which I did with pride, honesty and courage, from the first to the last day. [[Senator Valente's comments.]] I understand the despair of Renzi and his friends, but I address you, friends of the 5 Stars: you asked us one thing and everyone assumed that we would never say yes, for who knows what fears and political calculations. Mission accepted, challenge accepted: we cut for the first time in history, together, 345 parliamentarians and then vote the next day. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups. Comments by Senators Malpezzi and Mirabelli.]] If you're ready, we're ready. Otherwise... [[Protests of the PD Group senators, indicating the clock. Senator Marcucci points out that he wants to intervene.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u28	President Marcucci, you asked to speak. I have to say that she's always piercing, and I've never considered the time with her. [[Protests of Senators Bellanova, Malpezzi and Verducci.]] President Salvini's speech was in terms, so much so that the microphone flashed. Okay? COMINANCES (PD). He's not president yet! Mr Marcucci (PD). He's not like that, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You know that, because every time you compare it to our watch. [[Lives, repeated protests from Senator Bellanova.]] So I'm calm that I've kept to the times and I don't like this pretentious polemic. Please talk. BELLANOVA (PD). You're inadequate, President! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I would like to ask you to speak again, Mr President: I just wanted to close, if the friends of the Democratic Party allow. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sorry, I didn't understand. You have the right to do so. [[Very lively protests by Senators Bellanova and Pharaoh.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). You gave me the floor, Mr President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I always give it to everyone. President Salvini, I would ask you to conclude, please. I thought he was done. [[Reiterate protests from the PD Group.]] If I think I add time, I do it and do it with everyone systematically, including your Group: Stop it. Last time you spoke 15 minutes and I didn't interrupt. VALENT (PD). Salvini, you're a clown! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I find that intolerable.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u29	Mr President, from a senator the buffoon is tolerable: I don't take it, I would miss it. That was the reasoning, so I hope that this House will be composed of women and men who will spend next week thinking about the future and preparing it, but not their own, but that of the country. In fact, I understand that there are people stuck on the phone from morning to night promising any one, in order not to raise their ass from these chairs. [[Senator Bellanova's protests.]] It is disrespectful not so much and not only of the Senate, but of 60 million Italians. I'll finish, if I may. [[Protests from the PD Group and Senator Nugnes.]] Mother of God, how hard it is, though: to be anti-fascist, the friends of the Democratic Party are sparkling. VALENT (PD). Parliament is not your living room! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). What did I do to her? [[Comments of Senators Bellanova and Biti.]] Oh, is it always like this? MALPEZZI (PD). You should preside over this Senate, President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Salvini. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Friends of the 5 Stars, before you ally with this team, think about it three times: it's my advice. And then wish you luck, do what you think you're doing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] FARAONE (PD). Mr President, how long will you be speaking for? SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Oh, my goodness, it's hard. We head up and ask the Italians to take this country by the hand for the next five years and we are not afraid to get up from the Chairs of the Ministries or the Senate. MALPEZZI (PD). Do it! COLLINA (PD). Come on, then! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Those who are afraid die every day; those who are not afraid die once only: live freedom, live Italy, live democracy! [[Live and sustained applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u32	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would ask you to give the Democratic Party the same time as you gave the League. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u33	As you know, I do it all the time.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u34	MIRABELLI (PD). That guy talked about beaches and didn't interrupt him. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). The interruptions should be considered! Mr Marcucci (PD). President, but you don't have to answer me, you have to let me talk. I would ask you to give the same time as you gave the League to the Democratic Party and it is not ten minutes. [[Senator Gasparri's comments. Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Mr President, you must also call them back in the same way, you know? You should call back Members who interrupt in the same way, but let me speak. [[Comments from FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] If you want, I'll let you know when they're loud.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u35	She also warns me when Senator Bellanova screams, because I hear her constantly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u36	[[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, would you please allow me to speak? I begin by apologizing because yesterday was a difficult day. The tones that took place during the meeting of the Leaders were heavy and, I say this for me, even excessive, so I apologize because it was not the right way to put it but obviously the issues to be discussed are delicate, the rules are interpreted. Obviously the Democratic Party and the Senate Presidency had a very different vision than the Rules of Procedure, but the tones were not worthy of such a delicate meeting. Having said that, Mr President, dear and authoritative colleagues representing the Government, the time is very delicate for the country. [[Comments of Senator La Russa]] I do not think that we can listen to such an intense and important dose, in quantitative terms, of lies and offenses in the Senate House. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Apart from the aesthetic data that are incontrovertible, Minister Salvini: you are definitely the most tanned. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] It is the most tan because it is the only one that has been many weeks on holiday, but this is not the theme that I am passionate about, as I am not passionate about the police aquascooter used for fun and anything else. What fascinates me is that the pulpit from which the lecture comes, for example with respect to the quantity of work, is that of Minister Salvini, the most absentist of the European Parliament - when there was - and absentee in the Italian Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I understand that even if he doesn't know the rules, the times, the mechanisms (he never attended them). Absenteist at the Viminale, because his days spent working to ensure the safety of the Italians are very few; moreover he had to make the campaign full time, he had to campaign electoral and therefore did not have time available for the Italians and for their security. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I think they're bad habits. I think they're terrifying examples for our country. For us today is a beautiful day because putting an end to the life of this Government with traction Salvini and Lega is a blessing for Italy, it is a liberation for Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] It's a liberation. They ruled badly and the agenda dictated by Salvini has precipitated Italy exactly where we are today. It's your responsibility. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I understand that he has the anxiety of antirenzism, an anxiety so strong that he forgot to be the Head of Government for a year and four months. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is he who has the responsibility, in particular of what has happened to our economy, to employment in the country, to our institutions that has continually mocked and trampled on [[Applause from the PD Group]] , even in the last few hours with heavy threats to Parliament and the institutions. Suffice it to think of the way in which it has been placed today. Yesterday there was a conference of group leaders in which a majority request prevailed, namely to respect the President-in-Office of the Council whom we strongly opposed. He asked to be heard, to communicate to the Assemblies and we believe it is right to listen to him and assume that, after those communications, there will finally be the crisis of this Government. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I believe that placing responsibility for the damage done on others is a very serious false public vis-à-vis the Italians. I believe that being constantly overwhelmed by a lying and dangerous misinformation is - by a Minister of the Interior - a very serious matter. I believe that it is just as serious to have made a sneaky attempt to go to the elections immediately in the interest of the party, managing the elections as the Interior Minister. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Marilotti and Nugnes]] Your words, Minister Salvini, have bothered us and continue to worry us. You, Mr Salvini, are not afraid of us, and you do well because we believe in institutions and democracy; however, let me, Minister Salvini, when I listen to you, when you make statements to the country, I am sometimes afraid of you. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups]] I'm afraid of her ways; I'm afraid of what she says, of the goals she has; I'm afraid of the Italy she wants. Therefore, I defend the institutions, I defend Parliament, I defend the rules. We will open this crisis with the times and the means to do so, with respect for democracy, with respect for our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, the Constitution is our beacon and I ask you, with your heart and with the sense of the State that must characterize all the members of this Senate and of Parliament and as an Italian citizen, to fully fulfil your role as President of the Senate, the second office of the State: to be outside the game, to guarantee the rules. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We voted: the Democratic Party is in favour of the decision taken by a majority yesterday at the Conference of Leaders, so we will act accordingly in the vote on the timetable by this House. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u39	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, one of the issues that I wanted to remind myself in all our debates - but it is good that we also remember it in this House, especially after the speeches that have been made - is that we are in a parliamentary democracy. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]] Parliamentary democracy, as given to us by the republican and constitutional pact, has very precise rules, the first of which is that parliamentary democracy must be respected. I make this premise, Mr President, because it is clear to everyone that, precisely because we are in a parliamentary Republic, not exposed to all events, and not in a polling democracy (so every two months, if polls change, we have to adapt), if the President of the Council asks to come to make communications to the Senate and to the House, undoubtedly, it is institutional correctness - President, you know better than I do - that the communications of the President of the Council should be put on the agenda. Moreover, these are not general communications; the President-in-Office's letter is very clear: for the political crisis. So it is right - and it must be so - that the crisis should be parliamentaryized, because we are a parliamentary Republic, and so this House - it is clear - discusses it with the time and the means to do so. Because we are not summoned by anyone, Mr President. We cannot be summoned by a bathing establishment or a beach. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD and M5S.]] We are senators elected by the people, like the other senator who spoke before; we are all elected by the people. There are rules and these rules first of all must be respected; the rules are not a formal fact, but the substance and essence of democracy. Nobody can address us with epithets, which you, Mr President, once again did not want to censor today. We have been summoned and, as you can see, we are all here to do our duty, even those who may not have been able to participate because they were unable to come in 24 hours. We are here to fully exercise our mandate. And for this reason, with the timing and manners, the position we took at the meeting of the group leaders, as you know, is to have on 20 August - I repeat, on 20 August and not on 14 August - in this House the President of the Council with the communications, the debate and what will be there: this is part of the debate, the autonomy and the relationship between the senators in this House; only and only that. I repeat that we cannot even remotely accept that someone, from newspapers or from among the cubists, with everything that has been part of this unheard-of spectacle, insults us and insults are being repeated in this House. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]] We are not here to discuss tans; or rather, perhaps we should discuss whether some tans have been made at the expense of the Italians (but this is another account and we will see). Senator Salvini, indeed the Minister, because he has not yet declared to leave the Viminale (perhaps I did not understand it well, regarding institutional correctness), calls for elections, but thinks he can manage the elections perhaps from the Viminale: also this unheard of thing. [[Applause from the Mixed and PD Groups and Senator Agostinelli.]] Senator Minister Salvini has come here and we do not doubt that he is not afraid of the vote: she is not afraid of the vote; she is afraid only of the trials. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]] You're afraid only of trials! The brave captain! The brave captain who, however, deigned to come here, under the dictation of his lawyer, Minister Bongiorno, to come and ask for protection, immunity. The man of the people! [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]] The man who returns to the people, but not to the magistrates! Since you have then come here to propose that we vote immediately on the reform on the reduction of the number of Members - and we shall see to the House - I propose to you, if you are a man of honour: let us take a step back and come here, so that we can report all the documents of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Come here, with courage this time, to suffer the right trial (because from the trials, as someone taught us, we do not defend ourselves: we are, in the trials). You, Senator Salvini, have had a bad role for this country in recent months - I take on all the responsibilities of what I declare - because you have fueled hatred, resentment and all the worst feelings. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]] For this reason, as far as we are concerned, we believe that you have no respect for either the republican spirit, democracy or, above all, our constitutional values (from Articles 1, 2 and 3), given all that you have done, not least, with the security-a decree. For all these reasons - all of which recall the fact that we are a parliamentary democracy, anchored in constitutional values, which someone obviously does not remember - we can only confirm our proposal to schedule a sitting on 20 August with the communications of the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD, and from Senator Marco Pellegrini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u40	Senator De Petris, I would like to say that, precisely because I respected parliamentary democracy, I convened this sitting of this House today to respect the centrality of Parliament that should have been decided. [[Comments from PD and Mixed Groups]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. No! No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It was not the President who had to decide, but this House, which was supposed to be the parliamentaryisation of the crisis. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I still want to tell you, Senator De Petris, that the convocation was not made by a bathing establishment, but by the President of the Senate and this Assembly. [[Comments from the PD Group]] And that means respect for the institutions. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Live comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u43	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, the position that the Group of Brothers of Italy will express is very simple, clear and straightforward: we ask once again to vote on the motion of distrust of the Count Government immediately; tonight, tomorrow, when you want, but let's do it now. The Count Government survives itself, President and colleagues: it continues to exercise its powers despite a motion of distrust, despite the words of the vice president of the Salvini Council and despite the absence from the cabinet of all the Ministers of the League. So there is nothing else to do but vote on the motion of no confidence right away, go to the polls and soon have a new government. Compared with what Mr Salvini has just said, if the alibi to be removed is that of the reduction of parliamentarians, we are very ready. We have already done so, we have already voted three times and we can do so even a fourth time, provided that this does not become an alibi to lengthen the life of the legislature, as some smart guy intends to do. Members' cut yes, but certainty of the date of the vote; no games and no cunning [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups),]] above all by those who presented themselves to the elections as the rejuvenators of politics! We can afford these words, President and colleagues, because we will have so many flaws, but Brothers of Italy has always practiced political coherence. We did so before the vote and we did so later, remaining consistent with our electoral programme and making a patriotic opposition: voting in favour when we thought it was right to do so and making tough opposition when we felt it was right to make hard and intransigent opposition. But now we realize - perhaps it is better to say "constate" - that the government experiment has failed, as it was easy to imagine and as we had said a thousand times, and that therefore it was impossible to hold together such different parties. And if I may add another brief consideration of an entirely political nature, if there is a regret, it is that perhaps the plug should have been disconnected before: perhaps a few months ago it would have been better, after the European elections. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] We would have had the right time and time to prevent some smart guy from appealing to the Constitution, rights and freedoms to prevent the people from expressing themselves freely, as is their right. But we take note of what happened. President, we read and have also just heard so many people, certainly more educated and intelligent than we do, explain to us what we even know: even we of Brothers of Italy know that we live in a parliamentary Republic and that therefore Parliament has the full freedom to find another majority, whatever it may be. If this freedom exists and there is this right - and it is certain that they exist - we must also recognize that there is always a good reason for some unscrupulous politician to try to give nobility to the worst choices. And we also know that, if the Constitution exists, there is also common sense and there is also a duty on our part that we represent the people to listen to it and give it a voice, because public opinion is not to be mocked. We cannot think that Italians are a flock of wretched people who drink a different truth every day depending on the convenience of the moment, as you are doing. Friends, colleagues of the oppositions - oppositions still for a short time - you are going to vote not on the calendar, which is little, but to vote politically. We do not vote banally on a calendar date, but we decide whether to convene President Conte to face a motion of distrust or simply for communications that will allow him to take time (and to waste time on other games that naturally arise and that we all manage to understand). Today, probably - I hope not, but I think so - a new majority will be born which, like yesterday at the Conference of the Leaders, will put together the Mixed-LEU Group, the Democratic Party, the Movimento 5 Stars and other majority pieces, who knows what. If this new majority were to arise, we believe that it is a scandalous political monstrosity. Scandalous! [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] In these months you have quarreled over everything: there is no argument on which you have not quarreled; on the contrary, I correct myself, because you have not quarreled, rather you have insulted yourselves on every subject. Not later than a week ago, the Democratic Party occupied the benches of the Government to denounce the subversive choice of Movimento 5 Stars to have a senator elected who had no right and now you tell us that you can govern this country together to save him, but to save him from what? [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Who can believe such a fairy tale, colleagues? Mr President, only in Italy, only for some wise Soloni who live in this country, who write in the newspapers and intervene on TV, can one think that it is logical, acceptable and sensible that "fruity" political groups come together, united only by despair and fear of the ballot boxes and that, instead, the demand for popular vote is considered an extremist, demagogic and dangerous choice. This is unacceptable: the vote is free and the fundamental freedom of the citizens is expressed through the vote, which you want to deny: and you would be the democrats. In conclusion, Mr President, we reiterate our position once again: a motion of distrust, a vote immediately and a new Government for Italy. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u46	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the proposed changes to the timetable that have been tabled. Let us imagine that the first one to be put to the vote will be the one presented by our President, Senator Bernini, as the most distant from the calendar, as approved by the Conference of Leaders: this is the proposal to vote today. If our proposal - as we fear - is rejected, we will also vote for that of the president of the Romeo League Group to vote tomorrow, as we will also vote for that of Senator La Russa to add to the agenda the motion (or motions) of distrust to the Government. We believe that, at this point in the situation, the need to speed up the times is clear: there is nothing more to be seen except that this Government is no longer there (and we see it also from those who rightly occupy the benches of the Government, that is, only representatives of the 5 Star Movement), there is no longer the present majority. What changes, then, if we are in this House to vote on 20 August (or on a date around 20 August) or to do so immediately or tomorrow itself? It doesn't change anything. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Romeo]] They just lose five, six, seven days. And why is he wasting his time? To try to set up a government based on an unnatural alliance (and in this House we have seen plastically the clashes between the two alleged protagonists of this new government). [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have already had several unnatural governments. Even the last, what concludes in these days his adventure was, evidently, an unnatural Government and is certified by the attitudes that there are between the two movements that have supported it: both the Leagues and the Movimento 5 Stars are obviously not satisfied with this Government. We think then to form another government, even more unnatural, that will waste more time on the Italians; we really say no: we must respond to the Italians who need clear policies. We believe that these clear policies are those that are able to put in place the center-right, of which Forza Italia is founder and decisive part. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If the Italians decide otherwise, it will be different, but let the Italians decide, because there is a need not to chat, not to balance, but a serious policy for companies, for families, for work, for Italy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u49	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, I think it is quite clear that this is a vote on the calendar but also the vote on the most important calendar in the history of the Italian Republic: I have never seen so much tension for a vote on a calendar. This vote has been given great political evidence. I would like to address President Bernini, who also mentioned the presence of 55 Senators of Forza Italia; in fact, some of them I had hardly ever seen before in this House. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups and Senator De Petris]] I say this with sympathy to President Bernini and I respond in this way also to some provocations of Minister Salvini, whom I no longer see. I'll ask him if he's sure of what he's doing and where he's going. I think I'd think about it. We have no alliances with anyone; I do not think we can say the same if I look at the other side of the hemicycle. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I want to say one thing and I will give a single response to the many requests received. Personally, as a man, I have several fears: I think of a disease of a child or the uncertainty of the future (each of us has fears); the only thing that certainly does not intimidate us is to go to the vote at any time. The Movimento 5 Stars is never afraid to ask the voters for their opinion. Never! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the FI-BP Group]] We have criticized the proposal to schedule the motion of no confidence tomorrow for several reasons. First of all, because it is an institutional scorn towards a President of the Council who is still President of the Council of this country. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups]] I also consider it inadmissible because tomorrow is the day of the first year of the tragedy of the Morandi Bridge. We should have had a debate in this House on the withdrawal of concessions, which the President-in-Office of the Council, Vice-President Di Maio and Vice-President Salvini had undertaken to do and not to discuss the motion of no confidence! [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups and Senator D'Alfonso]] This was supposed to be on the calendar tomorrow. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups]] Finally, I believe that Mr Salvini has taken away all political significance from the current debate. In fact, the proposal to vote in the House immediately, next week or in the next few days, during the fourth examination of the constitutional reform that leads to the cutting of 345 parliamentarians, is possible only if tomorrow no distrust is voted on to the Government; otherwise it is not really possible to proceed on that path. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups]] I therefore expect President Romeo's proposal to be withdrawn. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Some Senators of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group sign no with their finger]] As an alternative, of course, we will vote against all changes to the timetable and continue with the proposal to convene the House on 20 August, with the communications of the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u50	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to proceed to the vote on the motion of no confidence in the Government this evening at the end of the debate on the schedule of proceedings by Senator Bernini. It's not approved. [[Comments from the FI-BP Group.]] I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed Groups. Ironic applause from the FdI Group]] . I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to proceed to the vote on the motion of no confidence in the Government tomorrow 14 August, at 4 p.m., tabled by Senator Romeo. It's not approved. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). The debate of the chair! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed Groups]] I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to proceed to the vote on all motions of mistrust presented together with the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers on the next agenda, tabled by Senator La Russa. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). I want to see your face! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups.]] THE RUSSIAN (FdI). The government is alive! There's no such thing as mistrust!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u51	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-145.ana.u52	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, August 20, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.10 a.m.
