ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10:33 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 21 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform the Groups, as I have already indicated, that the sitting will be suspended until 12.15 p.m. to allow the submission, by 12 noon, of any amendments to the further amendments by the Government sent on Friday 22 February. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 10:36 a.m. and resumed at 12:26 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1018.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u7	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank you for your sensitivity by extending the necessary time, including to our offices, to draw up an appropriate presentation of the sub-amendments to the amendments of the Government and the majority. But what I would like to ask you, Mr President, is that the work of this House should not go on until the budget Commission has finished its work. In order to allow the majority and minority rapporteurs to carry out the reports and to begin the general discussion, it is necessary to have an overall understanding of the framework and positions of the Government and the majority. Mr President, the request of the Democratic Party is therefore to postpone the work of this House to the conclusion of the work of the Budget Commission, also because we are asking our minority rapporteur to participate in the work of the Commission, precisely because the Commission on the substance - i.e. the Commission's work - will no longer meet on these amendments and the debate can only be held and understood within the Budget Commission. I therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary for our minority rapporteur to be able to participate in it. Mr President, thank you very much for your willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u10	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I too would like to thank you and only you for your sensitivity to the rights of minorities, unlike the majority. You know that, Mr President, because your speech has only partially amended the continuing breakdown of the democratic debate that is taking place within the House and the Commission. Colleagues, friends, it is not a refrain, it is not a mantra: to debate a measure democratically is written in the Constitution; you are not yet aware of this. [[Applause from the FI-BP Groups]] The Constitutional Court has said this: we cannot speak and you listen to save time, because this has happened so far. It was for the budget law and for the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. We have such a silent majority that we are mutated so as not to waste that time - colleagues - called democracy and popular representation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I give you news, ladies and gentlemen, and in this particular provision this news is important: the people do not represent only you, but there is a portion of the people that we also represent. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] And we would like our voice not only to be heard, with the awareness of measures read, metabolised and perhaps amended in appropriate times, but we would also like you to respond to us, as has not been done so far. And we would like, if possible, the government to tell us what it intends to do with this measure, so that you know - and my fellow group leaders are aware of this - that at the last meeting of the group leaders, in the presence of the President of the Senate, the government said: today we will hold a majority meeting, but these issues will not interest the Senate, because so much amendments will be made to the House. It is a good thing that at the last constitutional reform you voted for parliamentary bicameralism, because this is a monocameralism with alternate plates. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We cannot discuss the measures in one House every time. And above all - I am still addressing the Government - if you do not think we are too prying, if we do not violate your majority privacy, could we know what amendments you intend to submit to the House on the measure that you are asking us to vote on? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Could we please know that before we vote on it? It seems to me that minimum union of democracy, which not only the Constitution but also recently the Constitutional Court has asked you to respect. I respect the majority agreements, but when they become bartered against Italian citizens we can no longer accept them. Again, ladies and gentlemen, we were faced with a barter. Last week we were present, as parliamentarians and as Offices, we waited for the Commissions to meet and for the majority to tell us what the result of its mediations was, but since the mediation had not yet taken place, we waited in vain, not us parliamentarians, but the Italians who were watching us, because these are our dandy causes. These are the people we answer to. It is to them - only to them - that we must answer. But not just us, you too, colleagues. Remember that, even in this case, it is not enough to make a barter (you give me the necklace of beads, I give you the skin of bear; you give me immunity, I give you a No Tav). [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] No, that's enough! Please, let us concentrate on the content and, even more politely, colleagues, representatives of the Government, let us know what these contents are in the right time. Mr President, as far as Mr Marcucci's request is concerned, we also believe that the minority rapporteurs should attend the meetings of the Budget Committee. That is why we are putting forward a proposal. It is not up to us to what time has been lost in both the Commission and this House for amendments tabled at 9 p.m. last Friday, to closed committees and with the examination of the measure concluded. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] For this reason, we ask for courtesy that parliamentary democracy is not violated to the extent that it does not allow minority rapporteurs to debate the allocation of funds within the competent Commission, because - we shall see, ladies and gentlemen - this measure is a great lie, because the funds are not there (or, better, they are not for everyone). So put us in a position to prove this to you and make you understand it with the utmost good faith in the competent Commission. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u11	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the elementary school "VII Circolo Didattico Montessori" in Rome, present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the requests made by Senators Marcucci and Bernini, I intend that the House should continue its work with the reports of the majority rapporteurs and the minority rapporteurs. After that, before the start of the general debate, the sitting will be suspended in order to allow the Budget Commission to work. I believe that the sitting should resume at around 5.30 p.m., with the hope that the Budget Committee has finished its work. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] The rapporteurs, Senators Catalfo and Nisini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Catalfo.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank all the members - both by majority vote and by opposition - of the Commission for their public and private work, social security for their work in recent weeks. This measure was incardinated to the Commission on 30 January. The work was marked by a busy schedule of commitments, which began on 4 February with the hearings that ended on 6 February and which helped to improve the text, allowing us to have a broader view of the text. Specifically, the Commission has audited 65 entities between organisations, bodies and associations and has also acquired nine memoirs from associations and bodies, as well as the memory of the Data Protection Supervisor. A number of contributions were received, among other things, from expert professors on the subject. This allowed for the submission of amendments by both majority and opposition, which improved and extended the text. Some of these amending proposals concern the possibility for disabled people to adhere to the path of integration into the labour market envisaged for citizens' income recipients and, therefore, to receive appropriate offers. In addition, another important change for the families of disabled people was the possibility of having a reasonable offer that was less than 100 kilometres away. The original text, in fact, provided for a limit of 250 kilometers. The same change in the appropriate distance offer has been foreseen for families with minor children for whom a reasonable offer of up to 250 kilometres has been moved to twenty-four months. In addition, by accepting opposition and majority amendments, the municipalities were relieved of the burden of INAIL insurance for community work planned for beneficiaries of citizenship income. Majority and opposition amendments were also accepted, which included the involvement of patrons in applications for citizenship pensions. Other amendments which have accepted proposals for amendment of opposition and majority voting are related to the possibility of not losing the incentive if the beneficiary of income was dismissed for just cause over the thirty-six months since the recruitment. (The sitting was suspended at 12.30 a.m. and resumed at 12.30 p.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 12.30 a.m. and resumed The last important amendment adopted - which incorporates both the majority and the opposition proposals - gives the possibility to interbranch peer funds for continuing training to conclude the training pact through specific public notices, subject to agreement at the Unified Conference. I would like to take stock of what the measure provides for our examination. What we are about to discuss is a single measure, which is necessary and necessary to safeguard social cohesion in this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A measure that many other countries have put in place for some time, a measure that comes precisely from the need to combat a situation aggravated over the years and precipitated during the international economic crisis that has led Italy to have the non-enviable record of the highest rate of increase of those at risk of social exclusion in Europe, a statistical data that, in fact, turns into millions of people in absolute poverty and about ten million in relative poverty. The urgency of the measure is confirmed by ISTAT data. According to the most recent survey of the National Institute of Statistics on Poverty in Italy, families in absolute poverty are over 1,700,000 and within them live about five million individuals. The measure is also necessary in the light of the European Pillar of Social Rights which Article 14 provides, and I spell it out, that: "anyone who does not have sufficient resources, is entitled to an adequate minimum income guaranteeing a dignified life at all stages of life and access to goods and services." [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Continue article 14 of the Social Pillar: For those who can work, minimum income should be combined with incentives for reintegration into the labour market. These are precisely the ratio and purpose of citizenship income. And it is precisely Article 1 of the measure that clearly defines the objective of the measure that redefines the model of collective well-being adopted so far by the Italian State, abandoning forever the current fragmentary organization and directing the political choices towards the adoption of a system aimed at reducing social exclusion and increasing the possibility of development of each individual within the framework of modern organized society. The mechanisms by which to achieve this objective must therefore be traced back to a single fundamental measure of active labour policy, of combating poverty, inequality and social exclusion, aimed at promoting the conditions that make the right to work and training effective, through policies aimed at economic support and social inclusion of those at risk of marginality, in society and in the world of work, in full implementation of Article 38 of our Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Thus an income support measure, but not only a proactive measure, a large investment in employment centres, in the interoperability of databases and active labour policies. Who are the beneficiaries of citizenship income? They are households which, from the point of view of income and wealth, have a value of the indicator of the economic situation equivalent (ISEE) less than 9,360 euros; a value of the real estate, other than the house of housing, not exceeding 30,000 euros; a value of the movable assets up to a maximum of 10,000 euros, increased by an additional 1.000 euros for each child after the second and 5,000 euros for each component with disabilities. The economic benefit is composed of two elements: one to supplement family income, up to the threshold of 6,000 euros per year multiplied by one if it is a household consisting of a single individual and increased by 0,4 for each adult component or 0.2 for each minor component of the household; the other element composing the economic benefit covers the expenses for the beneficiaries resident in rented housing up to a maximum of 3,360 euros per year, or for the households resident in owned housing and for which a mortgage has been issued. The benefit in this case covers expenses up to a maximum of 1,800 euros per year. In order to better understand how the benefit is made up and what income support would be for families, I would like to bring some examples to the House. A family of two adults and a minor child will receive a benefit including a refund for rent costs of 1.080 euros; a family of two adults and three minors will receive a benefit including a refund for rent costs of 1,280 euros; a family of two adults and four minor children will receive a benefit including a refund for rent costs of 1,330 euros. However, citizenship income is not just income support, but a proactive measure linked to the integration into the social and working environment of the citizen. In fact, there is provision for a system of conditionality linked to the enjoyment of the benefit that is expressed in the Covenant for Labour and in the Covenant for Social Inclusion. These conditions include the declaration of immediate availability for work, the adherence to a personalised path accompanying work integration or social inclusion, which includes, alongside specific training and active job search pathways, community service activities, vocational retraining, completion of studies, and other commitments identified by the relevant services with a view to social inclusion and integration into the labour market. All members of the adult family who are not employed and who do not attend a regular course of study or training shall comply with these conditions. A new element is that from these obligations the components with care loads, assessed with reference to the presence, in the family, of subjects under three years of age, or with serious disability or not self-sufficiency, can be exempted. In this regard, I would also like to explain to the House why some amendments were not accepted, linking the care burden to a paragraph of the 2017 Stability Act on caregivers. In view of the fact that the caregiver is not yet regulated and that, at the moment, in the Commission for Public and Private Work, Social Security of the Senate, a restricted Committee has been set up, which will be responsible for drawing up a text on this particular case, as rapporteur I felt it appropriate to leave the drafting of the legislation to that restricted Committee and to what the Commission would then like to put into practice on the caregiver. With regard to the concept of a suitable job offer, reference is made to the criteria laid down by the Ministerial Decree of 10 April 2018 on the coherence of the offer with the professional profiles, the contractual type and the measure of the remuneration, which in truth has been modified in part, as the Ministerial Decree on the supply of suitable work referred to 20% more than the last NASPI received by the beneficiary. However, as the beneficiary of citizenship income in this case is not a beneficiary of NASPI and as we changed the rules, we considered it appropriate to accept the amendment on fair pay. Specifically, the distance of the offer of employment from the place of residence, on the other hand, is increased to include the entire national territory as the duration of the enjoyment of citizenship income increases and in relation to the number of offers refused. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I would like to ask you whether it is possible to limit Members' voices a little, because otherwise I must raise my voice. [[Call the president back.]] In addition, for the purpose of assessing the adequacy of the distance, it also notes the fact that members with disabilities are present in the household or not. Here too, as I said at the beginning, there have been more favourable changes for families who, inside, have components with disabilities. As an incentive to the immediate employability of the beneficiary, it is expected that, if an offer relating to a place of work is accepted more than 250 kilometres away from the beneficiary's residence, the same will continue to receive the income of citizenship, as compensation for the transfer costs incurred, for the next three months after the start of the new employment, up to 12 months in the event that members of the minor family, or members with disabilities, are present in the household. With regard to the request, recognition and payment of the benefit, the latter may be requested at the offices of Poste Italiane or via a telematic channel or at a tax assistance centre. The INPS shall be approved by the end of the month following transmission of the application to the INPS. The benefit is awarded by means of a card, which allows, in addition to meeting the requirements for the purchase card, to make cash withdrawals within a monthly limit of 100 euros per individual, which instead is multiplied by the aforementioned equivalence scale for the nuclei with more than one component, and to make a monthly transfer to the lessor indicated in the lease or intermediary that granted the loan. It is also envisaged that the beneficiaries of the citizenship income will benefit from the benefits of electricity tariffs and compensation for natural gas supplies granted to economically disadvantaged households. Citizenship income is, inter alia, an important investment in interoperability of databases, employment centres and active labour policies. Article 6 deals, in fact, with the interoperability of databases, i.e. the creation of a single information system capable of linking all the information relating to work and the worker and a national system for the crossing of demand and supply of work that is a reference point for citizens, businesses and operators in the sector. Specifically, with regard to the activation and management of the Covenant for Labour and the Covenant for Social Inclusion, two dedicated digital platforms dedicated to citizenship income are planned: the Unitary Information System of Labour Policies for the Coordination of Employment Centres and the Unitary Information System of Social Services for the Coordination of Municipalities. These platforms are tools for sharing information both between central administrations and territorial services and, within territorial services, between employment centres and social services. Other provisions concern the operating modalities of the aforementioned platforms that will constitute the portal of communications from employment centres, accredited entities and municipalities to ANPAL, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the INPS. Central to the system of the measure are the sanctioning apparatus and the system of incentives dedicated to enterprises, accredited training bodies and beneficiaries of income of citizenship who undertake self-entrepreneurship paths. With regard to sanctions, causes of revocation or forfeiture of citizenship income, or reduction of citizenship income, and certain criminal penalties in this respect, as well as specific reporting and control obligations by public administrations, are established. In addition, incentives are provided for private employers who employ, full-time and indeterminate, persons benefiting from the income of citizenship; accredited training institutions, where they contribute to the recruitment of those beneficiaries; beneficiaries themselves who start self-employed or individual undertakings or a cooperative society within the first 12 months of taking advantage of the income of citizenship. The employer's incentive is to exempt from the payment of social security contributions, payable by the employer and the worker, with the exception of the premiums and contributions due to INAIL, up to a maximum of EUR 780 per month for a period not less than five months and equal to the difference between eighteen months and the one already enjoyed; however, if the recruitment concerns a person who is enjoying a renewal of the citizenship income, the exemption shall be awarded to the fixed amount of five months. If the recruitment is a result of a training course, carried out by an accredited body, the incentive measure is reduced to half and the remaining half is allocated to the training institution to a maximum of 390 euros. The incentive enjoyed by the employer shall be withdrawn in the event of dismissal within the thirty-six months (this is the modification) of the aforementioned hired beneficiary. The incentive for the holders of the citizenship income for the above initiatives is a further benefit, in a single solution, of six monthly citizenship income, within the limits of 780 euros per month. The same facilities are recognised in compliance with the so-called de minimis European rules and are compatible and additional to those introduced by the Budget Act for 2019, relating to certain recruitments in the Regions of the Mezzogiorno. Where the employer has exhausted his contributions under the latter provision, the incentives under consideration shall be used in the form of a tax credit. Citizenship income is therefore a bridge between citizens and businesses, which focuses on continuing training, aimed at creating skills in line with the professional skills required by the evolution of the labour market. Continuing training, which is at the heart of the journey towards the reintegration of citizens into work, and which ensures the acquisition of new skills which are essential to enabling the transition from one job to another in a constantly changing labour market. This enables companies to face up to the current technological revolution by having qualified staff. The Head is closed on the income of citizenship the forecasts relating to the relocation allowance and other. The implementation of citizenship income is estimated to have a significant impact on the entire national economy. Its provision provides a strong incentive for the audience component of potential beneficiaries who are in a state of inactivity to actively return to job search. In addition to the macroeconomic impact of consumption generated by citizenship income, incentives for companies also increase the chances of re-absorbing programme beneficiaries within the workforce, creating an increase in domestic demand over previous years. Precisely for this reason, the income of citizenship is a tool aimed at pursuing non-inflationary growth, thanks to the possibility of re-introduced discouraged workers within the labour force, which manifests itself at the same time as the stimulus for short-term demand. With this in mind, the strengthening of employment centres is a genuine structural reform. Experiences of active policies in the EU countries, such as Germany, show that the continuous activation of categories of workers previously outside active job search has effects on the participation rate to make active inclusion policies not only positive incentives for short-term demand, but also instruments capable of having an impact on potential growth. With this measure we lay the foundations for a new social state, creating a new statute for guarantees, not only of work, but of the very concept of citizens; a concept capable of redesigning the right to existence and guaranteeing full self-determination for citizens. I shall conclude - and then give the floor to the rapporteur, Senator Nisini, for the report on the remainder of the measure - by thanking some of the Members of Parliament who have been with me during the last parliamentary term, all the Members of the Movimento 5 Stars, President Daniele Pesco, who helped me to continue the process of the measure on citizenship income. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Senator Alberto Airola, who brought this issue to the Commission for the first time. I would like to thank the Minister, the Undersecretaries, the parliamentarians, the opposition and the majority (I repeat) who have done this important work in the Commission. I would also like to thank the Offices, which have done a very important job, because this is a measure that includes many articles. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u14	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Di Giacomo" - 3rd Santa Chiara" of Qualiano, in the province of Naples, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u15	I call the rapporteur, Senator Nisini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u16	Mr President, I too would like to thank all the members of the 11th Commission for the days and evenings spent together and for the work they have done and all the audits that have helped bring about an improvement in the text we are debating today. I start from Article 14, which introduces experimentally, for the three-year period 2019-2021, the right to an early retirement pension in the presence of an age requirement of sixty-two years and a minimum contribution seniority of thirty-eight years (the so-called 100 quota). The possibility is granted in favour of employees, public and private, and in favour of other workers, other than employees, who are registered in the relevant pension administrations of the INPS. Paragraph 1 specifies that the right to a pension on the basis of the new case, achieved by 31 December 2021, may also be exercised after that date and excludes that the relevant age requirement is subsequently adjusted according to the rules on the raising of certain pension requirements according to the increases in life expectancy. From this exclusion it follows that even in 2021, i.e. in the final year of the three-year period covered by the new institute, the aforementioned age requirement will remain equal to sixty-two years. Paragraph 3 provides that the early retirement pension in question cannot be combined, from the first day of commencement and until the completion of the conditions for access to the old-age pension, with income from employees or self-employed persons, with the exception of those from occasional self-employment, within the limit of 5,000 euros gross per year. I would like to focus briefly on Amendment 14.27, which was adopted by the 11th Commission in the referent, which proposes, in order to deal with the effects arising from the application of this Article 14 on the school system and to ensure that teaching activities are carried out, that in the first of the public competitions per teacher in secondary school, which is banned in accordance with the ordinary procedures after the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree, the merit rankings are prepared by assigning to the titles held a score of up to 40% of the total and that the service carried out at the schools of the national education system (public schools and private peer schools) is awarded a score of up to 50% of that attributable to the qualifications. Article 15 deals, on the other hand, with the general rules governing early retirement pensions, consisting of a contribution period of forty-two years and ten months for men and forty-one years and ten months for women, and introduces a time-limit for the commencement of treatment. Article 16 provides for an extension of the so-called 'women's option'. The new intervention allows workers born by 31 December 1960 - i.e. born by 31 December 1959, if selfemployed - to receive an early retirement pension with thirty-five years of contribution, provided that the option for the full contribution calculation system is exercised. Article 17 deals with the requirements for early retirement pensions for so-called early workers. Article 18 extends from 2018 to 2019 the application of the Social EPA Experimental Institute, consisting of a pre-pension allowance in favour of persons with certain contributory and personal requirements and falling within at least one specific case, relating to the personal or family or work sphere. Article l8-a - proposed by amendment 18.0.1, approved by the 11th Commission in the referee - provides for the suspension of the payment of old-age or pre-retirement pensions paid by the institutions managing compulsory social security schemes, for certain persons who have voluntarily been deprived of the execution of the sentence, as well as for those who have been evaded or who have been on leave. Article 19 shall suspend until 31 December 2021 the limitation periods for the payment by public administrations of social security contributions due to their employees for periods of competence prior to 1 January 2015. It is without prejudice to the effects of past legal proceedings and to the right to full pension treatment of the worker. Paragraphs 1 to 5 of Article 20 introduce, experimentally, for the three-year period 2019-2021, for some entities covered by the full contributory calculation system, the possibility of redeeming, in whole or in part, to the maximum of five years, even non-continuous, the periods preceding the date of entry into force of this decree not covered by contribution from forms of compulsory pension, provided that those periods are between the date of the first contribution and that of the last contribution however accredited. Article 21 introduces the possibility for some civil servants to exclude the application of the maximum rate of contribution and the basic calculation of pension treatment. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 22 introduce the possibility of a new type of treatment from bilateral solidarity funds, consisting of an extraordinary allowance pending the fulfilment of the requirements for early retirement provided for in Article 14 (the so-called 100 quota). Paragraph 1 of Article 23 provides that the time limits for the payment of the end-of-service treatment of civil servants entering early retirement pursuant to the previous Article 14 shall run from the moment when the right to pension would have been acquired on the basis of the old-age pension or the forms of early retirement provided for in Article 24. I would like to make a quick comment on Amendment 23.11, which proposes to specify that the legislation also covers persons who have had access to these pensions before the entry into force of this decree. According to the text of the decree-law, the maximum amount of the concessionable sum is equal to 30,000 euros, that is equal to the amount due to the staff who require the financing, where the compensation of end of service, however called, is lower. Amendment 23.21 proposes to raise the maximum amount to EUR 45,000, subject to the concurrent limit, which is the amount of the allowance; the same amendment provides that any additional share, resulting from the increase, may also be requested by those who have already submitted the application for funding. Finally, Article 24 reduces the IRPEF rate on the end-of-service allowance in cases where payment takes place more than 12 months after termination of employment. Amendment 24.8 proposes the introduction of a paragraph 2-a. This provision allows employees of State administrations and public bodies who maintain the end-of-service treatment, however called in their balance sheet, to obtain the latter's payment within 90 days from the date of termination of the employment relationship, giving up the tax treatment under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u17	The minority rapporteur, Senator Toffanin, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u18	I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Toffanin.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u19	Mr President, representatives of the Government, Senators and fellow Senators, the decree-law under consideration consists, in fact, of two measures (national income and share 100) which have little to do with one another. But so much so, we have all realized that they must be approved at the same time and as soon as possible, because only then can the majority stand, on the contrary - I correct myself - sitting in their own seats. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The income of citizenship, in fact, is precisely this. Citizenship income is a flag of the 5-star Movimento, while the League contributes with the share of 100. Now, being the income of citizenship for years, indeed always, a battlehorse of the pentastellates, we would have expected from the beginning of the work a structured, complete, defined proposal. On the other hand, we had to note in the Commission in the referee that the ideas on how to implement the repeated slogans in the election campaign were few and confused. Moreover, the work in the Commission has been blocked by continuous interruptions: either because the majority could not find a square or because awaiting the consultations of the "magic" platform Rousseau. We were hostage to this. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Article 1 defines citizenship income as a measure to guarantee labour law and, at the same time, to combat poverty, inequality and social exclusion. If you are 65 years of age or older, you are entitled to a citizenship pension. But, as it is realized, the income of citizenship represents a merely welfare measure, only this, and we will see it. Article 2 defines the beneficiaries of income. The audience of the beneficiaries of the nearly 6 million poor promised in the electoral campaign is restricted to about 1.3 million individuals and households because of the insufficient, although very large, resources available. The government, among other things, has chosen to penalise large families, benefiting individuals: the face of support for birth and large families. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In fact, Mr Catalfo, in your report you failed to say that there is a ceiling on the equivalence scale and, therefore, large families do not benefit. This is so true that the first result was a resounding increase in separations, so an ad hoc amendment had to be introduced to control changes in residence for income purposes. Too bad, though - and I would like to remind you - that the controls on changes of residence already exist, so nothing new, nothing. Disabled people and families taking care of them are ignored: their accompanying benefits or other forms of care contribute to income for the purposes of ISEE, instead of being considered as intrinsic needs to their disability. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In addition to Italian citizens, citizens of the countries of the European Union are also addressed to non-EU citizens with long-term residence permits. The League has proposed an amendment to restrict the audience of non-EU beneficiaries, but this is a propaganda check only apparently stringent. From this constraint, in fact, are excluded those countries in which the required documentation is not obtainable. Therefore, non-EU citizens from countries like Nigeria or Ecuador will still enjoy the income of citizenship, unlike Italian and European citizens subject to all the constraints. Let me remind you - for example - that in Ecuador there is no state archive of real estate, but only region by region, with a validity of six months: it is, therefore, a merely apparent and propaganda bond. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The mechanisms for providing and controlling the income of citizenship are complex and cumbersome, involving different subjects between local authorities, INPS, INAIL, CAF, employment centres and so on, as extensively illustrated in Articles 4, 5 and 6. Too bad - and this is very serious - that nothing is ready to take charge of the beneficiary at the time of the payment of income from 1 April 2019 in the platforms, employment centres, in the CAFs, in the Municipalities or Regions. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The recruitment of the 4,000 employees provided for in the 2018 budget law for employment centres are far away, as are the collaboration contracts for the 6,000 navigators at ANPAL Servizi spa, to be then located in the employment centers representing the joints of the Regions that have not been heard. Therefore, the benefit will paradoxically be paid without the beneficiary being taken over: pure welfareism and everyone knows, starting with the majority, that this situation will continue for a long time. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Citizenship income may be renewed, subject to suspension of its payment for a period of one month prior to each renewal. However, there is no limit to renewableness, which certifies, precisely, the Government's awareness that the scheme of proposals for work defined by the norm is simply unrealizable. Therefore, the income of citizenship will be limited to being a mere economic supply in the purest form of welfare, favoring extremely the work in black and the controls will certainly not be enough to eradicate the sly with such a vast audience of beneficiaries: all this until the resources are exhausted. The regions complain - and they did so officially at the hearing - that they were not involved as regards their competences for the measure, let alone the municipalities, which will have to make available social services and all administrative activity. These territorial authorities, however, are entrusted with every responsibility: therefore, Rome is responsible for the decisions in the secret rooms of Palazzo Chigi (and via the streaming); the Regions and the Commons obligations and obligations, having to manage on the territories a discontent generated by the false expectations produced by this Government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Another critical aspect concerns the privacy of applicants and their families. As also emphasised by the Data Protection Supervisor, the entire mechanism does not ensure the protection of large-scale processing of personal data and therefore does not appear to meet the requirements of the European Regulation. This is a far-reaching problem, which the current rules would require to be resolved very quickly, but which the Government has ignored. Article 8 of the measure has an evocative title: "Incentives for undertakings and workers." In fact, it provides very few facilities for employers, first of all because they concern only companies that intend to recruit indefinitely through employment centres. This narrows the employment opportunities of citizens' income recipients, leaving out, among other things, an important sector which you have always neglected in this parliamentary term, namely the seasonal sector of agriculture and tourism. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Moreover, the measure only provides for the possibility to deduct part of the social security contributions for too short a period and provides for penalties in the event of dismissal within three years of recruitment, unless dismissal takes place for just cause or for justified reason, but that is all to say. How many entrepreneurs under these conditions will take the risk of having to pay a penalty, in addition to signing a training or retraining agreement at the time of recruitment of the beneficiary? We have some doubts and there is a risk of repeating previous experiences of incentives for totally ineffective and unused employers. Gentlemen, before we distribute them, we must ensure that jobs are created. It takes a lot more to create jobs: action must be taken to reduce taxes and bureaucracy, to intervene on the tax wedge, to create infrastructure, the TAV in the first place. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We must make our companies competitive with foreign companies and activate agreements with foreign countries in order to encourage exports. This is the only way to create work, not only with small contributory reductions, but also at risk of criminal penalties. Compared to the economic resources earmarked to deal with this measure, they have been said of all colors, on the contrary, it is appropriate to say that numbers have been given: first there has been talk of 9 billion, then of 6 billion, now there is talk of 5 billion; first there has been talk of a audience of 6 million poor, then of 2.2, now there is talk of 1.3 million families, while first I have heard of 1.7 million. They are free numbers, not to mention that training for income recipients costs and we do not know who will pay for it: it will cost over 500 million, who will pay for the training? Ah, maybe they'll pay the municipalities and the regions. In view of the recession - which goes far beyond the technical recession we are experiencing - there is therefore a real risk that it will prove to be a mere temporary measure that will leave the poor even poorer once income is cut off. The second part of the measure provides for several measures on pension rules; the main ones concern the introduction for the three-year period 2019-2021 of the so-called 100 quota, the reduction of the contributory seniority requirements for early retirement, the blocking until 2026 of the adaptation to life expectancy of both these requirements and those foreseen for the access to early retirement and the extension of one year of the so-called women's and social EPA options. The provisions on access to pension treatment with at least sixty-two years of age and thirty-eight years of contributions are only experimental for the three-year period 2019-2021: let us keep this in mind. It is, therefore, a measure limited in time and form and in any case benefits a relatively limited number of Italians. Quota 100 is a simple derogation from the rules of retirement, yet another window that leaves many exodus out again, excluded after the last safeguard also by the so-called Fornero law, adopted in the last legislature and against which the current majority had thundered in the electoral campaign. In our centre-right programme, the subject of pensions was and is one of the cornerstones, not to the bottom as we are now doing, but conceived as part of a real and more complete comprehensive reform of the pension system, supported - and I repeat supported - by a real investment policy for the labour market and the economic sector as a whole. Moreover, according to paragraph 3 of Article 14 of the Decree-Law under consideration, pension income for the 100th share cannot be combined with that for employees and self-employed persons, thus excluding newly retired persons even from activities which could create jobs and revenue for the cashiers. With this measure, once again, the Government loses an opportunity to create work. In addition, it must be borne in mind that this favours undeclared work, to which - as I have already said - citizenship income also opens its doors. Among the benefits of a 100 quota envisaged by the Government there would be a generational shift in employment. On the other hand, the President of the Parliament's budgetary office said that, in the short term, 100 would favour a moderate generational shift, especially in the public sector. In the long term, the employment of both young people and older people will depend on the effectiveness of the economic growth incentive measures implemented by the Government. So far, this government has done zero. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] However, this principle is fundamental for Forza Italia and our programme and proposals have always been based on it. We cannot fail to point out that the present proposal is not only a limited measure but also an expensive one. In official evaluations, all pension measures would lead to an increase in expenditure of €4.7 billion in 2019, €8.7 billion in 2020 and € 9.3 billion in 2021. I remember that they are all resources financed in deficit. According to the INPS estimates, only measures of 100 percent and blocking adjustments to the life expectancy for early retirement would result in an increase in the implicit debt of the pension system of around EUR 38 billion, entirely borne by future generations. Finally, the complexity and heterogeneity of the measure are supplemented by Chapter III, which contains provisions on games, the tax increase of which is aimed at part of the coverage of this measure. This reveals an intrinsic contradiction: on the one hand, you put this sector in difficulty with the increase in taxes; on the other hand, you use it to finance your measures. So, colleagues in the majority, once again agree not only between you, but also with yourself. In summary, this measure is characterised by a mixture of welfare and active policies which favours - on the one hand - the sofa for those who do not want to work and, on the other hand, the black work for those who want and can work and - on the other hand - the lack of job offers because the market is firm. This is a limited measure that does not foresee the overcoming of the so-called Fornero law, but is yet another window designed for some and not for all. There is also no concern for young people, on whom the whole cost of maneuvering will fall. No investment is carried out in favour of the business world, to which the coup de grace was inflicted with the blockade of the TAV and all the great works. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is clear that this is a measure with propaganda aims, which is urgent for the election campaign for the European elections, but which will in fact immobilise the whole country: a price that is far too expensive. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u20	The minority rapporteur, Senator Nannicini, has requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u21	I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Nannicini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u22	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, my fellow senators, my fellow senators, all the hearings carried out by the Commission on this decree-law, despite the usual diversity of accents and interests, have raised serious doubts about both the overall design and the implementation details of the measure. Despite the choir of criticism, the Commission has examined and approved the decree-law without taking into account the comments of the auditees and rejecting all the amendments of the opposition groups, and I stress all why the role of minority and majority parliamentarians has once again deteriorated. But we see the cornerstones of the decree-law, the criticisms made in the Commission by the Democratic Party Group and our subsequent alternative proposals that we will propose in this House. Citizenship income and interventions on pensions do not come from Mars: they must be read within an irresponsible economic policy, which is unfortunately already unfolding its recessive effects for the increase of uncertainty, the cut in investment, the deterioration of expectations of households and businesses. This decree-law was created to spend, in a hastily rather than an urgent way, the substantial measures allocated in the last budget law on these measures. We are talking about 17 billion citizens' income, additional to the funds of the Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri governments to counter poverty, and 21 billion in three years for pension advances. These are large resources with no, if not negative, effects in the case of early retirements, on the potential growth of the Italian economy, and with very unfair redistributive effects, especially in the case of pensions. The initial problem is that the resources are fake in two different meanings: firstly, they are only nominally financed by increases in the tax burden since 2020, by new safeguard clauses on VAT and excise duties that the Government has already said several times that it does not want to trigger seriously. Secondly, they are fake because they finance interventions which, in the case of pensions, are temporary in their duration and, therefore, are intended to create strong pressure for additional expenditure once they have expired. If you look at the expenditure commitments for 2020 and 2021, if you look at the additional safeguard clauses contained in the Budget Act, 48 percent of the public money that in 2020 and 2021 will cover the actions we are discussing here simply does not exist. One euro every two is an accounting fiction. That money will be found in the next budget law in the middle of a recession and with new promises and new expenses to accommodate. Congratulations! [[Applause from the PD Group]] Compared to the second point, the temporaryity of the interventions, the resources are fake because the time bomb that is being placed under the possibility to honor in the future the social and welfare rights of the Italians is disconcerting. For starters, there is no 100 quota, there is a 62 plus 38 quota. The amount is 100 but it's not 100. The President of the INPS told us at the hearing, saying that there are people in the offices of this institute who, if they add up the age and contributions, reach 100, expect the pension but are not entitled to it. With this additional channel, therefore, expectations and new questions for interventions are being created. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But above all quota 100 is not a structural reform, because it is introduced for only three years. There is no overcoming of the Fornero reform: there is only yet another fragmented and temporary channel of early retirement access. It's not even a window, it's not a buffer surgery: 100 is just a lottery. If you mature the requirements required by here at the end of 2021, do bingo; otherwise goodbye and thank you. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We think of two people who started working on the same day and who have gained exactly the same years of contributions in their lives. Both will reach the desired quota of thirty-eight years of contributions in 2021, but the first person will be sixty-two years in December 2021 and the second will make them in January 2022. Well, with the measure that we are about to approve, the first will retire at sixty-two years, while the second at sixty-seven: a mega staircase of five years for two people who were born one month apart from each other. I wonder whether this is fair and, above all, whether it is politically sustainable. There is no need to be a fortune teller to understand what a politician, in the fullness of his faculties, will do in the autumn of 2021, in full budget law, in response to the demands of the second person to also retire at sixty-two years, as the first. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If politics does not succeed in curbing the spiral of increasing expectations and demands, our social security system is bound simply to jump, not to be able to honour this spiral. Other than overcoming the Fornero reform: with these irresponsible choices we prepare the ground for a "Fornero" two, revenge, an even harder reform, dictated - again this time - by the irresponsibility of those who preceded it. Let's see now who will get the benefits of the lottery, who will get the benefits of the 21 billion spent over the next three years. The winners - as all independent observers in the hearings have explained - are people who respond to a well-defined sketch; they are male workers who have more robust contributory stories and have matured much higher pensions than the average. Not only that: those who receive the highest premium have pensions calculated to a large extent on the remuneration method. They had thus already won the lottery in 1995, with the so-called Dini reform, when they were also excluded with the pro rata from the contributory calculation, and now they will have a new prize. In short, they are the usual known Italian welfare: not the weakest, but electorally well represented and robust categories. [[Applause from the PD Group]] One of them, according to the first questions of recent weeks, is represented above the civil servants, placing additional problems of operation of the public machine in the face of unplanned early retirement flows, without there being any certain resources, nor the overcoming of the limits to recruitment, from the last ones you have extended in the last budget law in order to replace them. From school to health care there is a piece of the Italian State that is in charge of providing services put at risk by the inability to plan and predict such early retirements, even with good peace of propaganda on the replacement of workers leaving and hiring young people. Who will pay the cost of this lottery? It will be paid by all pensioners with cheques above three times the minimum, to which you have returned to put your hands in your pocket, more than a billion per year in the next ten years; it will be paid by the young people for whom the decree-law does nothing, except put at risk the adequacy of their future pensions. It will also be paid by the weakest groups because in the budget law, discussing such an important measure on pensions, there was the resources to start with the most disadvantaged groups. With regard to the subject of early retirement, rhetoric and often also the example of a real problem, experienced by people in the flesh, of a construction worker who at the age of sixty-two still has to climb a scaffolding. Well, with the measure in our examination, you will have to continue to do so. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , because in the building industry you can not reach thirty-eight years of contributions except with great effort. If you get to sixty-two years without having a job, an unemployment benefit and without having reached thirty-eight years of contributions, perhaps because female worker who has had a discontinuous career, there must be an income guarantee that goes beyond thirty-eight years of contributions. The same applies to those who care for family members and people with disabilities. That is why in our amendments they proposed using part of those resources to make 92, not 100, but not for everyone; not for the usual known Italian welfare, because not all conditions are equal, not all jobs are equal, and politics has a responsibility to distinguish and make choices. That is why we proposed to use 3 billion of the fund for the unemployed, workers in heavy and weary jobs, people with disabilities or family members who care for people with disabilities. This would allow people with needy and difficult conditions to be put at the centre and leave some of the resources for growth, investment and cutting labour costs. In addition, with our amendments we have also proposed specific measures for women, such as the extension of a further three years of the so-called women's option until 2022, and then bring it into line with a new and fairer exit flexibility, and a pension guarantee for young people who do not have certainty of the adequacy of their pensions, if they have discontinuous careers or low incomes in the contributory system. Instead of the 100 lottery for the usual known Italian welfare, more could have been done, starting with people in need, women and young people, to have less debts and give more answers today to those who are forgotten by the measure under consideration. I shall conclude my speech by going to the second main measure contained in the decree-law under consideration, namely the income of citizenship. In this case there is little to add to the analysis made by the Alliance against Poverty, a great example of partnership of the union and the third sector, which has collaborated with the governments of the previous legislature, to build the infrastructure of income inclusion. The representatives of this Alliance, at their hearing, told us that the measure under consideration simply gives more resources - and we recognise the positive fact that we have more resources to combat poverty in the country - but worse answers. The risk is that these worst responses will end up putting at risk, in a few years, even the greatest resources, when the expectations that have been created will be disregarded. The measure under consideration is a hybrid measure, which wants to take care of the fight against poverty and also promote work, but it does so in a confusing way, with hybrid instruments that overlap each other. This is not just a critique "in the tip of drawing," but it is a critique that highlights how the fact of constantly trying to bring home too many goals with the same tool ends up leaving back just the people who must not be left behind. The measure on citizenship income is full of "invisible" who expect so much from a step forward of our welfare system in the fight against poverty, but who will not find adequate answers for how the intervention is drawn. Minors and large families are invisible. Everyone said it: there is a scale of equivalence never seen. 53 percent of the income recipients of inclusion were families with children, while only 27 percent of the income recipients of citizenship have children. The measure under consideration is a measure for singles, i.e. for households composed of a single component. There are no services, there is no special attention for families with children and there is no attack on child and educational poverty, which is the most terrible of all inequalities, because it is the one that moves from generation to generation. People with disabilities are invisible: there is no recognition of additional subjective needs compared to the mere income of families with dependent persons with disabilities. There is no increase in pensions and civil disability allowances, which had been promised in the propaganda prior to the measure under consideration. But in addition to the damage there is a mockery, because, by way of derogation from many rulings of the TAR and the Council of State, the calculation of the income parameter for accessing the income of citizenship also includes disability pensions that are subject to the test of the means. Our amendments wanted to overcome this, to give more recognition to families with disabilities on the scale of equivalence and to go beyond the extent to which disability pensions contribute to the calculation of income. Moreover, in the decree-law under consideration the unemployed are invisible and the relocation allowance is removed, which must serve an unemployed person in order to have intensive services and to immediately find a job, to give it to the beneficiaries of citizenship income, even if everyone has explained to us that only one third of this audience is immediately employable with relocation services. Moreover, with these resources you would quietly double the income of inclusion and make it universal [[Applause from the PD Group]] , broaden the audience, strengthen the services infrastructure and have a residual of 2 billion euros, to give income guarantee to the unemployed. In the propaganda that preceded this measure, the majority forces told us that the income of citizenship was needed for when the bad robots would come to steal the work; now we discover that robots must also steal our home, because otherwise there is no guarantee of income. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] There is no income guarantee for the unemployed, which must be trained and put into the market even if they are not below the poverty line and do not pass a test of the means. With the two billion, the unemployment benefit could have been increased by widening it; It has already been done in the last parliamentary term and now lasts two years instead of one, and reaches 97% of the unemployed; but the income guarantee can be strengthened especially for those workers over fifty years of age, for whom it is difficult to provide relocation and training services. Not only that, but even homeless people, foreigners who have worked and have regularly contributed to the Italian economy, Italians who come from abroad, perhaps to take on new life projects in Italy, are invisible in this measure. With this measure, with a measure of dubious constitutionality, such as the ten years of residence, those people will not have the help they deserve and expect. The third sector is invisible, which is the whole network of people who have worked in trenches for years, alone, in the fight against poverty and are being bypassed by a service infrastructure that focuses not on a takeover of the municipalities and the third sector that looks at all the dimensions of poverty, and not only that of income, but on a work-only infrastructure and on work-related services that magically precarious navigators from today to tomorrow should be able to provide. Finally, I would like to mention another element, perhaps for some marginal reasons, but which is not and on which we shall be tabling amendments because we are strongly opposed: the issue of criminal sanctions. You have introduced criminal sanctions for those who make false statements to access the income of citizenship: the imprisonment from two to six years, which is more than it is imposed for the false committed by a public officer and is a greater penalty than the one imposed for the simple theft. You are, in fact, telling people who are close to the threshold of access to citizenship income that they would do better to steal than to try to access citizenship income. The government told us it's not okay to forge documents to access citizenship income. It is clear that this is not good, but in the Homeland of Caesar Beccaria a pivotal principle of the rule of law and of legal civilization is that the extent of the penalty must be proportionate and commensurate with the extent of the crime. It is not only a punitive rule that gives the sense of a view of guilty poverty contained in many parts of the measure, but it is also the symptom of a cultural matrix that worries. You can fight over the tunnel of the TAV, but get along on loops and handcuffs, because the vision of civil coexistence that holds you together is justiceist, violent and handcuffed. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] On this too, the Democratic Party's vision is very different, radically alternative. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u25	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, we have just heard the news of a shift in the timetable for convening the Budget Commission from 1.30 p.m. to 4 p.m. As you can imagine, there are many reasons why I do not trust in a regular and fruitful work of the Budget Commission. I shall confine myself for the moment - and then I will take these reasons in detail - to pointing out the need for the work of this House to resume not at 5 p.m. but, as a result of the two and a half hours delay in the sitting of the Budget Committee, at least at 7.30 p.m. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. I'll see you in the morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u26	One who well begins is in the middle of the work: so said an old saying. The sitting shall be suspended until 7 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.47 p.m. and resumed at 19.01 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u29	ROJC (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we remember Fulvio Camerini, a man and a senator who has been missing for a few hours, who has honored this House. Others will be able to describe the gifts and cursus honorum of a doctor and a scientist who has left a decisive mark in his Trieste and who has had international recognitions, active in his studies until the end, with works still being published. All citizens can testify to the human qualities that have distinguished him and for which he has been loved and deeply respected. It is my job to convey to this House the memory of the senator and politician, of the man of dialogue. In March 1995 he immediately and enthusiastically accepted the project to unite the center-left under the symbol of the Olive tree. The Hundred Cities tour, led by Romano Prodi, which started an extraordinary political page, started right from Trieste. Professor Camerini was there, at the Maritime Station of Trieste, to baptize that new adventure that led him, immediately after, in April 1996, to enter Palazzo Madama, senator elected in the college of Friuli-Venezia Giulia. It was not easy for him to decide to run, seventy-two years old, yet still widely recognized scientists in Italy and abroad; it was not easy to decide to abandon medical and scientific activity in order to devote himself to politics. He had never abandoned medicine, and politics could have represented an unknown, insidious, difficult situation for him. It wasn't. On the contrary, it was for him, and for all his constituents and fellow citizens who were lucky enough to meet him and know him, a challenge won from the very beginning. After a consultation with the beloved White wife, who disappeared only last spring, Camerini communicated to the political secretaries of the Popular Party and the Democratic Party of the left of Trieste that he would face this test. And to those who had a way of living daily with him the election campaign was evident what its thickness was. Camerini was made of different pasta, special in this too. Batté palm in the palm of his senatorial college, practically never stopping. He had a word for anyone who met or stopped him, sometimes his patients asking him for advice or a simple word of comfort. But those who wanted to talk to him were mainly the citizens, to confide to him an employment problem or related to the life of their city: Camerini was always there for everyone. He never stole, neither then, nor later: never. He has always had a lively and participatory attention for all, even for those who speak to you, until the end of his earthly life, proposing himself with infinite wisdom and profound honesty. He was elected under the symbol of the Olive tree, a symbol and a project that felt similar to his nature as a left-wing Catholic. It was a great displeasure and a personal disappointment, once elected, not to find that symbol even among the parliamentary groups of the 13th legislature. The years as a senator, like those of university and primary professor, were intense and dragging for him who discovered the strength of political and legislative action in particular, but also for the whole community of Trieste that had the possibility to have for a five years a continuous and permanent confrontation with the Roman activity of its senator. There was no mediation: while the Internet was taking its first steps, Senator Camerini regularly called public assemblies to account for his parliamentary activity, to report, listen to criticism, suggestions, and things to do. Everyone could speak with him and the senatorial action left a deep trace in the activity of this Chamber and in all the regional society, beginning with the tenacious and assiduous work to bring into port the law for the fair compensation of the goods abandoned by the Istrian and Julian-dalmatian exiles, to the reform of our health system, to the valorization of the Slovenian minority, with which Camerini has always interloquito in a careful, competent and constructive way, contributing effectively to the approval of the law for the protection of the Slovenian minority in Italy, collaborating with the political representations, dialogue with the reference associations and following with attention the cultural life of the Slovenians. He was, therefore, only for a very short time - just a few days - a scientist loaned to politics. His intelligence, his culture, his rigorous method and the discipline with which he always dealt with things allowed him to immediately become a politician to all round. Fulvio Camerini was a righteous man, a gentleman and a gentleman. With him disappears a great Italian and a great Trieste. We will miss him very much, because in all these years Camerini had become a reference point not only for the scientific community served for over seventy years, but also for that good policy that we all have to strive to achieve. Thank you Fulvio and rest in peace. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u32	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, I will not add much to the words of my colleague who described Mr Camerini and his political passion very well. If politics is civil action and is to play an unselfish role in favour of citizens, then Fulvio Camerini was a political man. Unfortunately, sometimes politics is not just that, and that is why perhaps it has continued to make a big contribution to the political debate, while remaining out of politics. Sometimes, when people disappear at a young age, they are said to have disappeared prematurely. I believe that we can disappear prematurely even at the age of ninety-four, because it counts what we still have to give and to say to the political, civil and social debate of our country. Fulvio Camerini still had a lot to say and give us. That's why I think it can be said that he died prematurely, because his voice will be missing for my city, but I also think for all the social fabric of our country. He helped create that Trieste system, along with Professor Budinich, Panizon and many of my fellow citizens who have really given so much to our society. I believe that your important voice will be missing and I agree with Mr Rojc's words of condolence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u35	BY MAS (FI-BP). Mr President, I too can only agree with the words of my fellow Members who have just spoken, because Friuli-Venezia Giulia and the city of Trieste are losing an important citizen and co-regional. Fulvio Camerini studied at the Classical High School "Petrarca" in Trieste and then became a doctor in Padua, because the faculty of medicine in Trieste was not there yet. As a doctor, he became a cardiologist and then a professor in cardiology. He founded a cardiology school that produced a generation of cardiologists who went around Italy and also abroad. This is the greatness of Camerini. Some people also remember his particular strong humanity, which evidently was equal to his scientific rigour and his being recognized as a man of science as well as a doctor close to people. I am not going to go any further, because I think that colleagues who have already spoken have reminded me a great deal of the figure of Camerini. I believe that this House should actually recognise a fair tribute to a person of its rank. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u36	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u37	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Campagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, well, we are almost there. With the decree-law in question we are about to carry out an operation of redistribution of wealth unprecedented in the history of the Italian Republic. The idea of a minimum income for the weakest sections of the population was the main political proposal of the Movimento 5 Star since its birth ten years ago. The thousands of activists who in recent years have given their souls to the information banquets to tell the dream of those who believed us from the beginning, dedicating part of their lives to it and that today we are sure would be proud of the result achieved; a dream that is finally realized also thanks to those who acted as a sounding board with the power of comedy and to those who first six years ago presented the bill in Parliament. While we were talking about different models with which we imagined new and more just societies, the so-called left continued to evoke new jobs, even at the cost of abandoning any idea of an ethical development model, in fact surrendering the new generations to the ruthless speculations of the global market. They said it was talk and propaganda, which was an unrealizable measure, which lacked coverage. Propaganda, ladies and gentlemen, is pretending not to see that the crisis is global in scope and that globalisation has failed, that society expects a new way that, if it is not mediated by politics, will produce new inequalities and new conflicts between those who have and who do not. Just look at the trend of absolute poverty in Italy between 2005 and 2017, when the number of people in absolute poverty broke 5 million. Basically, over the course of twelve years their number has more than tripled. We have to ask ourselves where the unions and the left were then and, above all, what the old governments have done for the last. Evidently nothing, because we can exquisite everything, but the numbers are incontrovertible. In this context of profound economic and social crisis, we can no longer confine ourselves to analysing the situation by denouncing the criminal and unjust effects. It becomes necessary to move to action, paying attention to the dramatic signals coming from the conflicts of the real world. We have a duty to look at inequalities in the face and to take action to remedy disasters caused by wrong choices. Oppositions also continue in the pathetic battle against our reform, launching signatures for the abolition of citizenship income, thus increasingly marking the distances between social classes. But how can we turn to the other side in front of the elderly and pensioners who go to rumble through the trash cans and are also caught stealing from the supermarket because they can't make it to the end of the month? These are not metropolitan legends, but it is reality, perhaps that many do not see because it is mainly in the outskirts. Citizenship income is the only measure to combat poverty and social exclusion, which aims to promote the right to work through policies aimed at economic support and integration into the labour market of those at risk of exclusion. The aim of this measure is therefore to ensure that all enjoy the full rights of citizenship and sociality. I come to the heart of the debate in response to the main criticisms that have been made from the outset of this initiative and that are driven more by political motivations than by objective reasons, such as, for example, the narration for which an income support measure, which provides a sum of EUR 780, could discourage the search for low-wage jobs. In essence, in a country also based on Article 36 of the Constitution, which establishes the right of every worker to pay proportionate to the quantity and quality of his work and in any case sufficient to ensure to himself and the family a free and dignified existence, we are not at all concerned about the existence of full-time jobs from a few hundred euros per month, work from hunger, but rather we are concerned about the compensation of the income of those living below the poverty line, which instead will push up wages and working conditions. The struggle of the French unemployed - for example - has had among its key words the demand not only for employment, but also, and above all, for income. The need for income, as citizens belonging to a community, and the possibility of being included in the world of work are the main demands that lie at the root of conflict disputes that set the current European scene on fire. What about the widespread belief that the income of citizenship will feed scams and work in black, since a large part of Italians would be dishonest who will surely be able to circumvent the requirements of access to the benefit? But those who have been called the sofa idlers where they should find the time to laze, or to work in black, given the hours they will see engaged in training, in public works, but also in job search? We once again stigmatise, if necessary, these illegal conducts and we restate on the strict control measures provided for in Article 7 of the measure, both in respect of those who will try to fraudulently access the measure by providing, in addition to the possibility of reductions and forfeiture from the benefit, even the imposition of criminal sanctions, and in respect of the operators of the patrons and employment centers who will work to inform the citizens and not to suggest how to circumvent the system, if they do not want to risk also incurring disciplinary and accounting sanctions. So if the fear that some might benefit unduly from income leads to the belief that it is best to leave everything as it is - and therefore things as they are - then it is just as important that we abolish all other income support measures: we abolish disability benefit and also social shock absorbers. But if we still believe in the political sense of the word welfare, then we must commit ourselves to realizing a necessary and urgent measure, which is certainly perfectable, but which inevitably goes in the direction of a more just, cohesive, but above all fairer society. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u39	Senator De Vecchis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u40	President, I am excited, and mine is that constructive emotion of those who feel they are taking part in a great event. These two measures will change the social fabric of our nation and that excites me, as the Senator Campagna has excited. With the income of citizenship we will adopt an instrument for the fight against poverty: 5 million poor people have asked for the help of the government and the government is there, the government is present! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] [[Comments from the PD Group.]] No, I'm not calm. You've created 5 million poor. I'm not calm; I'm excited about this maneuver. [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] I'm not even crazy.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u41	Talk to the presidency, Senator De Vecchis.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u42	DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). I understand that the center left is in trouble after approving the jobs act, after abolishing Article 18 and after creating the precarious and exodus. He's in trouble, and we're gonna take it apart piece by piece. [[Comments of Senators Rampi and Bellanova]] With 100 shares we will free 62,000 employees and workers, kidnapped by Elsa Fornero, who did not allow him to retire and live his life as pensioners. That's a shame and we're gonna raise a 100! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] My thoughts go also to those unions that have been absent for years, in particular the CGIL, that has forgotten its role as union to return to the square with the revolutionary Landini. You're coming back today, Landini, but where were you when they abolished Article 18? Where were you? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] Today you all go down to the square, but this is an instrumental demonstration. We will not be intimidated and will move forward on our own path, aware of making real progress in change. We are the real progress. You're not progressive. You criticized us for arguing in the majority. But I am glad that we are debating, because at last there is a government that does not take orders from the letters of the European Union; there is a government that discusses and brings solutions, contrary to what the gentlemen of the center-left have done, who were waiting for the letters from the European Union to do the task - excuse the pun - of those who commanded them. Today this is over, there is no more: there is only us, a Government attentive to what are the needs of the people, that people that someone has forgotten, and above all has forgotten and abandoned that working class that today, thanks also to the leader Matteo Salvini, we are putting back at the center of our political action. We have brought in not indifferent interventions, such as contributory peace, which will allow us to redeem the periods discovered by the contribution, up to a maximum of five years; an act of civilization for those who have lost years of work. Then there is the Solidarity Fund, which will allow that generational replacement that you have destroyed with your labour reforms, which you have called the market, as if the workers were beasts. It must be called not the labour market, but the world of work: an act of civilization towards those who work, because you have turned them into goods, into markets, into inefficiency. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] The measures we are taking are an act of social justice, because they will allow many women, with a woman's option, to spend their time in the family and make them take over others in the world of work; a concrete act for equality of rights, which you have always babbled - yes, babbled, I want to use this term - but you have never finished; just chatter. Instead we are doing the facts and will bring about changes, with the income of citizenship, with the 100 quota, with the government going through with it. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u43	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u44	Mr President, members of the Government, I am happy to speak after two members of the majority, as a member of the opposition. I must say that historically, as a person who is opposed by various legislators, I am always surprised by two real problems that have been dragging for more than ten years: the problem of absolute poverty and that of relative poverty, which are growing and in recent years have seen no decline, with no measure, neither with the right-wing governments, nor with the left-wing governments, nor with the technical governments, nor with the whole succession of the governments of the last legislature, nor with this Government. The problem of poverty is so serious that so far it has been able to measure itself and deal only with transitional measures; I am thinking of the social card, I am thinking of the 80 euro-renziani, I am thinking of the income of citizenship. We are faced with the wrong solutions for real problems. And those who spend all of this are the people who are actually the most fragile. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I understand very well that there is no government that can ignore the problem of poverty. We are extremely attentive to growing absolute poverty; we are very concerned about the relative poverty that today affects the employee, the nurse, the teacher, the person we would have once considered as part of the middle class and who today is struggling to reach the end of the month. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are really concerned about the investment that has been made in recent years on our young people, university students, graduates, very often with masters and research doctorates, fleeing abroad because here in Italy they find no solutions. We are concerned about the labour market, which - as one colleague said before - can rightly be considered with an unpleasant expression, because it can sometimes evoke a professional profile that undergoes the rules of the market itself and, therefore, becomes a sort of new slave of labour. This is not the case, however, because the real problem, what really dismays us, is the job that is not there. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are amazed that, in the face of the failure of employment centres, in the face of the failure of people who have not been able to help others find a job, we tell them that we keep them in service because we cannot fire them but we also say that we are not at all satisfied with the work they have done so far and therefore we will hire a few thousand navigators. You don't understand, then, navigators to go where? To go between Scylla and Cariddi, why do they crumble on the front or poverty or unemployment? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But what cultural profile will these navigators have? Where will they look for job opportunities to be made available? We are concerned about the absolute fallacy of what you are proposing. They are objectively lies or, if you will, pitiful lies. But you know what we doctors say? The pitiful doctor makes the kangaroo plague, that is, when a real problem is opposed to a wrong solution, not only does it not solve the problem, but it creates a dramatic situation that - I imagine - will really bring us to confront ourselves with a GDP that does not grow and with a technical stagnation that, within a few months, will become real. It is useless that every day - morning, afternoon and night - you tell us that you will not put your hands on any assets, that there will be no tax increases. We are shocked by the idea of such naivety, or perhaps we are just waiting for someone to notice that the king is naked. In any case, there are problems. The problem of poverty exists and all previous governments have tried to address it. I wish there had been the courage to make a real analysis of why other systems didn't work. We simply add one system to another. Mr President, Honourable Representative of the Government, we suffer for the country. We do not suffer because this measure seems wrong to us. We are sure that reality, the test of facts, which as always is inescapable, will prove it. And we will regret that, when you realise that, the poor and the unemployed will be increased. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u46	Mr President, the income of citizenship is proof of how we can really do politics for the people. Between jokes of doubt taste and attacks mixed with resentment, the recipients of this epochal reform were painted, gradually, as nothingdoing, smart or not good, as if the state of necessity in which they pay five million Italians is their fault. It is a species that so much aversion comes from the left, and this cannot be explained only by the logic of antagonism and opposition. I believe that the reason is deeper and lies in the transformation that has led much of this left to adopt a neoliberal vision. The income of citizenship as a proactive and not merely welfare measure - as expressed several times in the course of the political debate, and not only - has been the subject of instrumental and non-neutral attacks. However, in the absence of absolute truths, bringing the accountant element to the fore with respect to the social one is absolutely wrong; how wrong it is to believe that the indications and reactions of the markets - lobby laws and centres of interest - are decisive for the economic choices of a nation and that for this reason they come before any political decision. These are points of view, perhaps, but not on the left. One may think that society will always have a bag of poverty, but it is unacceptable for a politician, right or left, not to fight and fight this assumption forcefully. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] One may still think that a society works only if all the associates are active in finding or creating a job, but it is not a reasoning that a politician can make. As a good politician cannot think that the state should not redistribute resources by paying particular attention to the weakest, since egalitarianism and social justice are words imprinted in our Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Vecchis]] It is very strange that on the left we are hurled against the supposed policies of non-welcome in the name of the ethical imperative of helping and helping the weakest, and then support with the same vehemence that the income of citizenship as an economic aid to poverty is diseducational, if not even dangerous, because the poor with some money in his pocket ends up feeling rich and no longer active as he should to get out of his condition. I think Gramsci meant something else when, contrasting with Catholic culture, he wrote that the poor must be content with their fate, because class distinctions and the distribution of wealth are God's dispositions and it would be ungodly to try to eliminate them. It is easy to understand who should be considered God today, but the class struggle is now archived by the "nouvelle gauche " all lace and glitter. It is easy therefore to ironize and tragically ridicule the choice of the political opponent who, as such, would bring with him the presumption of error. RAMPI (PD). That's what you do. ROMANO (M5S). But the incontrovertible fact is that citizenship income is the most important measure of combating poverty and at the same time active labour policy of the last thirty years. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] It seems to me, much more trivially, that more and more the language of some does not go hand in hand with thought and that technicalism and conformism have contaminated even ideas. Since those on the margins of society no longer seem to enjoy the attention of the left, there remains only rhetorical artifice, which sounds rather cynical, because while the gramsciano Catholic God contemplated at least charity, that of the new left does not even contemplate that. RAMPI (PD). What are you talking about? ROMANO (M5S). And then we talk about welfare to stigmatize the institution of citizenship income, although our welfare system hangs on to the welfare model wanted especially by the left. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Someone said that if you look at the world with the eyes of the weakest, you can really make a better world for everyone. If this prospect is lost, the very idea of social justice, equality and redistribution of income, which is the basis of a civil society, disappears. So, what do you say? We took care of the Movimento 5 Stars to really do - but really! - Something left. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u47	Senator Pizzol is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u48	Mr President, fellow senators, fellow senators, representatives of the Government, today we are examining the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 4 of 28 January 2019, which contains provisions on citizenship income and pensions. These measures are highly anticipated by Italians, such as the best known 100 quota, i.e. the option granted to workers, experimentally and for three years, to retire having a minimum of sixty-two years of age and thirty-eight contributions. Private workers who have met the requirements by 31 December 2018 will be able to retire from work as early as 1 April 2019. Those who will meet these requirements later will be able to retire three months later: the window is therefore three months. The public workers, on the other hand, will have windows open for six months, with a notice of another six and the first will be able to leave the work from 1 August 2019. To avoid disservices in the school world, teachers will have to wait until February 28 to apply for retirement and leave work at the beginning of the following school year. All those who opt for the so-called 100 quota will not be able to accumulate the cheque with working income exceeding 5,000 euros per year, until reaching sixty-seven years of age. In addition, their pension allowance will be lighter because they will have paid fewer contributions. In order to further promote the generational shift between older workers and young workers, the conversion law also provides for the development of an existing formula, but little used: companies in crisis or with redundancies can use the sector solidarity funds to allow the exit three years in advance of the 100 quota and therefore at fifty-nine years, with thirty-five years of contributions. The fund, with company charges, pays the pension advance until the requirements for 100 are met. The novelty is that companies do not have to pay contributions for the missing years to the pension. The measure under consideration today has become necessary, in the light of the distorting effects of the Fornero law on the labour market and the increase in youth unemployment. In fact, in recent years we have seen a progressive increase in the retirement age in order to adapt it to the life expectancy of workers. The Fornero law over time has become a dam of containment to a large pool of older workers who perceive it with ever greater insufferance, particularly in the public administration, where the blockage of the turn over and the increase of the retirement age have increased the average age of the workers to fifty-five years, a little too high compared to the European average. In order to solve this problem, concrete action has already been taken to unlock the turn over and to allow a ratio of one to one between incoming and outgoing workers. Share 100 continues in this direction and will further allow generational replacement by hiring young people to replace retired workers. Over the next three years, a number of older workers will be tried to remove from this bottleneck in order to make it easier subsequently to achieve the real objective that the Government has set itself: forty-one years of service regardless of age. This experimental measure will temporarily block the adaptation of the retirement age to life expectancy and the first step will be only in 2021. In the private relationship there will probably not be a safe replacement of one by one, but it has been wanted to help by providing companies with a positive boost that can make them cheaper, more agile and more attractive on the labour market. The opportunity to retire has already been welcomed by tens of thousands of eligible workers and will have a positive impact on the world of work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Incoming data allows us to say that you can stimulate and support the generational transition. Given the age of many workers still in service, it can be said that grandparents are leaving their children's jobs, so they will have some time to spend with their families and grandchildren. It is highly likely that a job will enable our young people to become a family and also promote birth. Quota 100 is a voluntary faculty, an additional way to access the pension together with all the other ordinary access already provided or regulated by the Monti-Fornero reform. Therefore, you can continue to retire using indifferently both the Fornero law, and the 100 quota, the social EPA, the retirement pension, the women's option or the measures provided for early workers and those for particularly weary activities. Among the rules that we are approving, it is also expected that the INPS will carry out monthly monitoring for the year 2019 and quarterly in the following years on the number of retirement applications and provide the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Economy and Finance with the reporting of the resulting burdens, precisely to avoid deviations from the planned expenditure. Share 100 regulates the reform of the governance of the INPS, the institution managing pensions and assistance, and that of the INAIL, the National Accident Insurance Institute at Work. It provides for the transition from centralised management in the hands of their presidents to collegiate management, without imposing new or increased burdens on public finances. In the two bodies, the boards of directors, which had been abolished many years earlier, will be re-established and will be composed of five members of government appointment, including the president. With regard to the INPS, I have gained the personal opinion that it should be broken down between care and welfare, as in other European countries. It would finally shed light on the scale of the contributions paid by workers, which should be used exclusively for their pensions, while for assistance should be provided with general taxation. Probably, it would be discovered that even Italians could retire long before the sixty-seven years currently foreseen by the Fornero law. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u49	She's registered to speak Senator Botto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today we are debating an important measure, which will by its very nature have enormous economic and social repercussions. Often the opposition forces have criticized our measure, considering it to be charitable and not properly economic, but it has become necessary to bring back to the centre of attention and political action the real target of our work: citizens and businesses. I would like to focus on businesses, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, to whom we thank for continuing to increase our economic fabric, despite the adverse measures to which they have been subjected in recent years. It is enough to think that 56.4% of private sector employees work in companies with less than 20 employees, above the European average by 16.5%. It is precisely the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as of citizens, that has pushed us to work to lay off a historic measure that can finally restore dignity to entrepreneurs and citizens. In this measure we have thought of several incentives for companies that decide to hire and citizens who want to start a new business - just like that, fellow senators - and do not discourage entrepreneurship, as has often been the case in this Parliament. Just think of the contribution relief, equal to the difference between the maximum duration of the citizenship income and the monthly amount of the measure already received at the time of recruitment, to the enterprises that decide to take on without a time limit. You know what that means? It means that an employer, if he hires a person who has been perceiving the income of citizenship for two months - for example - will get a contribution relief of 12,480 euros, or 780 euros for the sixteen months missing the maximum duration of the income. But let us do more, ladies and gentlemen: let the citizens who wish to benefit from this benefit sign a pact that commits them to training. We give EUR 780 not to lie on the couch, as the opposition has often reproached us for, but for training and integration into the world of work. We also expect a contribution for accredited training institutions that take care of a beneficiary of the citizenship income to train him free of charge. Our government and our majority do not want to give money, but to make a real economic reform: if the beneficiary, at the end of the training course, gets a job consistent with the training profile, the training centers get a benefit equal to the half of the period that is missing at the end of the eighteen months of the citizenship income and the other half, of course, will go - we remember - to the companies that hire it indefinitely. It is sorry to say to the opposition that it is a question of incentives not to stay at home without doing anything, but true and for those who need it, for those who form and for those who assume, by turning the economy of our country, for too many years paralyzed by austerity policies proven to be failures. I would also remind you that those who receive income have to accept one of the three job proposals that will be offered to them, at the expense of losing the benefit itself. However, as I have already said, this measure also facilitates entrepreneurship. The beneficiaries of the income of citizenship who start an enterprise in the 12-month premiums, in fact, receive a benefit equal to six monthly income. What does that mean? It means that if a citizen who has received income for ten months, for example, starts his business, he will receive in a single solution a transfer of 4,680 euros, equal to six months of the remaining benefit, and this to start his business. In short, after the decree-law dignity, the important measures provided for within the budget law and the approval of the decree-law simplifications in support of businesses and citizens, with this measure we go to add an important piece to the new idea of economy and society to which we aspire: a society in which we work to live and not one in which we live to work; a society in which everyone has the same opportunities and rights; a society that has prevented us from having so far because of a political class too attentive to their personal interests. Incentive for job search, start-up of entrepreneurial activities and stable recruitment: the opposition can say that this is a welfare measure, but the facts will speak for us, while for them they have already spoken and will be remembered for having deleted Article 18 or for having voted for the Fornero reform. In short, with the Movement to the Government the priorities are others: they are the citizens and with them the enterprises, on which we must aim to make sure that our economy returns to grow. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u51	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unlike many of you, I am convinced that this is a measure that does not address, let alone resolves, urgent social problems. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In fact, it seems much more to me the payment order of two electoral bills issued by League and Movimento 5 Stars. Moreover, it is a proposal which - in my opinion - betrays the promises announced: it will not help to abolish poverty - • extensive programmes - would have said De Gaulle - nor to delete the Fornero law. We start quickly from the income of citizenship. The costs will be far greater than those foreseen; it will not guarantee the whole audience of those in absolute poverty and, indeed, introduce hateful territorial discrimination between North and South, and national between Italian citizens and foreign citizens. There is no universal support measure and even the existence of a network of employment services, which is in fact non-existent. But have you ever entered an employment center? [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] As you know, only 2% of requests have been exhausted and found a solution. In addition, they are very modest - as the Parliamentary Budget Office has told us - both the employment spillovers - we are talking about 0.2%, if I understand correctly - and the effects of income on GDP (also 0.2-0.4% here). The truth that the majority and the government continue to deny is that in order to address the poverty issue it would be necessary - as was done in the proposal that we have advanced as Italian Radicals - a profound and comprehensive reform of Italian welfare. Adding another institution to existing ones increases expenditure, but not the effectiveness of the system. So, in my opinion, the income of citizenship, as you propose, will be a double waste: an opportunity for important reform wasted and a waste of huge public resources. On the other hand, if it had been decided to carry out this intervention over a longer period of time, without pursuing immediate electoral success, there would have been the resources available for the most urgent investments, to make the country grow and more time to adapt the services for the employment and social services of the municipalities. But without growth and efficient services - excuse me, colleagues - the caregivers do not become legally occupied. You can make a law, but this transformation does not happen. I'm almost out of my time, I know, so I'm not going to extend to 100. Much has already been said, but - please note - quota 100 will lead to an important gender discrimination: many, many, many women, in some particular areas of the country, do not have an ongoing career. In fact, almost exclusively male workers will benefit from this. It is assumed, however, that a weird turn-over of one by one, which no one has ever been able to prove; especially in the private sector, it does not seem to me that way. To conclude, I do not miss that part of your fortune is linked to the promises that the decree-law we are about to convert pretends to maintain; but I do not miss that Italy is also a country in which the most disastrous choices in terms of public finance and social equity (we do not speak, then, of public debt) have always been supported by strong electoral and parliamentary majorities: a pity that they have turned out to be disastrous. On this level, you are not the Government of change, as you claim to be, but that of the continuity of the chronic ills of Italian politics, starting with demagogy and the use of public spending as an electoral instrument. Perhaps you could have gone smoothly, improving the Rei, seeing what were the results of the reform that was going on; no, the electoral haste means that your deadline is 26 May, in which we will talk about something else (the European elections are). For you, for your survival and for a part of the government coalition, the essential date is May 26. [[Applause from the Mixed-PEcEB,PD and FI-BP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u53	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u54	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Italy is a beautiful country, it is a beautiful land for the morphological composition of its territories, but also because the ingenuity and spirit of initiative and commitment of the Italians have always represented the great added value of our nation, making it unique. Italy has always been an extremely supportive country and attentive to the protection and support of the weakest, at all levels (economic, social and health) and has an organized and widespread welfare system at local, regional and national level. However, Italy, precisely for its natural and secular vocation to work, to work, to crafts, to creativity, to research, to cultural and scientific growth, has never been a country that has been content with initiatives of pure welfare, which annihilate these attitudes, especially in young people, undermining their dignity. This is criminal. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] What arrives today in the Senate Assembly is the most identity measure of this Government: it contains the two measures that have conditioned the negotiation with the European Commission and that have determined a process of approval, we mean, abnormal (to say the least) of the budget law; anomalous and the limits of formal correctness, for those who still have the sense of the institutions we represent. Therefore, as it is structured, we cannot support this measure. We cannot support it above all in the area of the allocation of a citizenship income which, in a clumsy and ineffective attempt to combine support for poverty and start-up work, is destined to become a purely welfare measure, a useless, humiliating, harmful almsgiving, without any beneficial effect on productivity and consumption and discouraging job search; however, a measure destined for a few (about 1.3 million out of 5 million) and probably not even the most needy, which results in a bureaucratic massacre and a use of debt that will create a difficult to fill hole. We all recognize and want to support the need, but it is crazy to expect it as a growth post, because in this way you can only discourage it. We have revealed our recipe through the amendments. It's called a family quotient, it's called flat tax vera, it's called a reduction in the tax wedge, it's called a six-year tax reduction for new hirings. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Everything proceeds, among other things, between confusion and mess, so much so that nothing is ready to take charge of the beneficiary at the time, which will arrive, of the income provided for the first of April, in the platforms, in the centres for employment, in the CAFs, in the Municipalities or in the Regions. We do not talk about the municipalities and the regions, entities that will be put in serious difficulty because on their shoulders, as usual, will fall much of the economic and organizational weight. The recruitment of the four thousand employees provided for in the budget law for employment centres, as well as the collaboration contracts for the 6,000 navigators at ANPAL Servizi, are far away. And here a paradox is created because, while the Government says it wants to cancel the precariousness, with this provision it creates other precarious, precarious state. Today, in fact, we are called to vote on a measure for which resources have been allocated until 2021. And then, what happens to these workers? Without work, which is not created out of nothing, but supporting employers and training future workers better than demand, without work will create citizens dependent on the income of citizenship, with the consequence that, when this income is removed, because it will be removed, play force, that million and pass of people who have renounced work and natural training will find themselves unworkable, that is, without capacity and method to enter the labour market. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This system is like a drug; an illusory drug, which creates dependence and destroys the free initiative especially in young people, leaving them annihilated. I repeat that this is criminal. It takes a lot more to create jobs. We must take action to reduce taxes and bureaucracy on the one hand; to intervene, as we said, on the tax wedge and create infrastructure, the TAV in the first place. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We must make our companies competitive with foreign ones, activate agreements with foreign countries in order to increase exports. This is the only way to create work, not only with small contributory reductions, but also at criminal risk. We cannot and must not act downwards, at leveling downwards. On the other hand, measures must be put in place to stimulate growth, not only economic and employment, but also personal growth, especially in young people. Sofa and black work cannot be the objectives of a country like Italy, the Country of Humanism, the Country of the Renaissance, the Country of Leonardo Da Vinci. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Share 100: The reform of the pension system was well included in the programme with which the centre-right presented itself at the previous general elections, but it certainly was not at the bottom, as, on the other hand, seems to have been addressed in this measure. I understand, however, that this was necessarily the case. First of all, it should be noted that the provisions on access to pension treatment with at least sixty-two years of age and thirty-eight years of contributions are only experimental and for the three-year period 2019-2021. Therefore, it is a measure limited in time and which, in any case, benefits an equally limited number of people. Now, since it is reasonable and common sense to guarantee the outgoing flexibility to those who want to retire first, we cannot fail to point out that this is a very costly reform, to the detriment of the younger generations who will find themselves paying another mortgage on the future of our children. The flexibility that exits the labour market through pensions should be countered by greater entry into the labour market. And it is clear how this mussel with the welfare measure of the income of citizenship. At 100, in anticipation, will join 320,000 workers, 200,000 of the private sector and about 100,000 of the public, however, within very important categories: doctors, teachers, public administration, the INPS first, creating a vacuum in the turn over in the public and not necessarily, instead, creating new hirings in the private. In conclusion, we can only say one thing. This measure is a flag, flag. It only serves to make voters believe, before the European elections, that they have kept the promises of the electoral campaign. It is right to remember, once again, that in order to be able to bring home both the measures of this decree-law you had to resort to the deficit. All because neither of the two government parties has agreed to give up on their battlehorse, at least in terms of time and priority. How can one even think of uniting a measure of welfare and diseducation to work such as the income of citizenship with measures of start-up to work, useful and, indeed, necessary to support the results of the 100 quota, which will actually empty only a few sectors? It wouldn't have been long enough. The question for us is to find the right solutions and say no to unhappy growth. This country does not need crutches to stand, as this Government does, instead, that in order to stand creates ad hoc decrees not to displease everyone, but without satisfying anyone. This country does not need crutches because it cannot and must not remain alone in balance; it needs new shoes and fast tracks to run on. No more lies! Work is the only possible way to combat poverty. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Giannuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government, the income of citizenship is obviously a lot of things. It is a measure against poverty, for the accompaniment to work and for the emergence of black. That is a lot of things; we have heard that in part of the speeches made by my fellow Members, and I am sure that we will still be able to hear a great deal in the debate that will follow. Today I would like to focus on the enormous potential for cultural transformation that this measure brings with it. Income actually has a lot to do with our willingness to decide whether to recognize us as existentially equal and to embark on a decisive cultural or diverse evolution by right of birth and abdicate forever to the implementation of our Constitutional Charter. I have the conviction that the foundation of all injustice lies in the very human idea, unfortunately among human ideas, that we are all born with different rights. It does not matter, therefore, the responsibilities of each one in rendering social play unfair, since it is up to some by nature to emerge and others by nature to succumb. One becomes, therefore, innocent and inert with respect to the pain of the world because if we are born with different legitimate rights they become different destinies. This is unfortunately an idea clearly present also in our subculture, in the design of all the first and second classes of our life paths, because it is a latent component of all countries made to become small by force to enhance their rights in a never universal but differentiated way, never looking at the entity Nation, but at its corporations. It is an idea that belongs to all societies made to become little mobile, as it has happened in this country in the last fifty years, in order to favor the control of the managements and the rise of selected elite. This is our cultural ballast because, where it is no longer work, study and application to the personal excellence of each one the engine of social promotion, but the only ability to gain access to the lines of power, the tribal parameters of the sacral differences between men always replace the rational ones of fair rights. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today we Italians like to distinguish us from each other, but because we have not been left much else, beyond the distance we put towards each other, to allow us to raise ourselves. This cultural component - which I would call "the pleasure of differences" - unfortunately carries with it as its logical companion the contempt for the other social fall and as its natural corollary the unemployment indicated as obvious guilt and poverty as deserved destiny. But how guilty is the one who does not find work in a country where no one has ever bothered to make the work evident? In what part is a man kneeling in depression and resignation in an economic-productive system declaredly and mathematically built with limited entry responsible for his destiny? To our provincialisms there is also an objective difficulty: that it is difficult and almost unnatural for those who fortunately continue to enjoy protection and well-being, in a society in which poverty and unemployment grow exponentially, to be able to imagine the infinite shadow that in the meantime crosses in that same society those who are without means and without work; the infinite following of humiliations and the consequent inner descent to the certainty, in themselves first, of being unworthy of well-being and deserving of failure. So it was not easy to get to the income of citizenship in Italy. The value attributed to the social distance, the blame ascribed to the fragility, the impossible empathy of the economically advantaged minorities have long blocked the step to the deep civilization inherent in this reform. It was not easy at all, so today I cannot hide the pride of being part of a political force that has been able to look beyond all our smallnesses, our immobilisms and imagine and want for us an infinitely greater destiny [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Sancirre today the universality of the right to dignity means having a great idea, an adult country, in which the overcoming of the other is not enjoyed, but the challenge of each one with himself; in which distance is not enjoyed, but inclusion; in which one does not look with pleasure at differences, but with relief at widespread dignity. When we raise our eyes from our little wars with our neighbor, there will be nothing left to do but look forward to and look at the idea of becoming great, and this is a destiny for our nation that all parties should sincerely find desirable today. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u56	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u57	Mr President, the League, Matteo Salvini, all of us in the Group in the election campaign, had undertaken to amend and, if possible, delete the Fornero law. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] a clearly unjust law, which had to be amended and with respect to which we had to find a fair, sustainable model and which, above all, met a need for justice that the citizens asked us to do. We have taken this as a commitment and we have fought for it in the last five years, since a reform was launched that has modified the Italian pension system, transforming a model that, starting in the 1980s from baby pensions, has come to predict a retirement age among the highest in Europe. It is clear that that launched by the Monti Government was an unjust reform - and I would like to remind you that it was not voted by our Parliamentary group, present in the Chamber in those fateful days - where there has been no significant protest by the trade union world, which today is not well known what reforms are being launched by this Government. I would remind you that that reform was voted by the same political forces that today criticize this measure of ours, which will not be perfect but goes in the right direction. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] This is simply an act of justice. There are those who believe that it is not adequate and sufficient, yet those who criticize the measure in these terms five years ago voted for the Fornero reform. There are those who criticize him because he believes that we cannot afford it, because the economy of our country is not strong enough, because there is too much public debt. On the other hand, we believe that in the face of an unfair pension system, we do not have to ask ourselves so many questions on occasions such as these, but just ask ourselves whether it is right to change this system. For us it is right and we take the responsibility proudly [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , convinced that it will also have positive effects on employment. We do not do justice only to those who are denied the right to retire at a dignified age. We also do justice to the new generations who have been forced to leave our country, to leave Italy in search of luck this year and in past years. Thanks to this reform, beyond criticism, from the right and from the left and which we are not interested in, we are convinced that the opportunity will be offered to enter the world of work for our young people or those who, less young, have been expelled from it: it is a great opportunity to be seized. We have made this commitment from the beginning, we have made the referendum campaign and we have collected more than 500,000 signatures to change this law. Only the Constitutional Court prevented us from holding that referendum, but the citizens understood that they could put trust in the League and gave us consent on 4 March also for this battle. We are proud that, less than a year after those elections, we are able to present a measure that will not be perfect, it will not do justice to all workers, but it is certainly a step forward. We consider it a starting point and not a point of arrival. Compared to the criticisms that have been made about the income citizenship, even if it is not a battlehorse of the League, it is certainly not in the program of our movement and we are convinced that employment is created through the development of the economy and not necessarily with the income of citizenship, we cannot overlook the fact that many families of Italians live a difficult time and it is right to try to give an answer also to those families that have no prospect, with the commitment however that this provision - as we have tried to do with our amending action - leads to new occupation. That is our understanding, that is what we have tried to do through the interventions of our members in the Commission and it will be the role that the League will play in the implementation of this reform. I want to say, however, that there is also so much hypocrisy on this issue and hypocrisy is not ours, but those political forces, such as the PD, which have adopted measures such as income inclusion. There is hypocrisy also on the part of friends allied with Forza Italia, because I would like to remind you that in the electoral campaign someone promised the income of dignity: 1,000 euros per month guaranteed for everyone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] This person is the leader of Forza Italia: he was before March 4 and he is also today. He said, in that election campaign, that those who are below a certain income threshold should not pay taxes, but the state must pay them 1,000 euros per month. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Therefore, we cannot accept coherent lessons from those who, perhaps at a spurious stage of the election campaign, tried to introduce issues that certainly did not belong to our coalition, but were probably introduced in search of a consensus that failed. BELLANOVA (PD). Remember you were together. TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). We are proud to carry out a commitment we have made with the voters: the overcoming of the Fornero law. It is a commitment that we had made and with determination and consistency we are bringing to completion. I repeat: it is a departure, but we can proudly say that we did not vote for that reform and those who criticize us today are the political forces that launched it and had five years to modify it and did not, even by governing it together in a phase of the last legislature. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] We vote for this measure with conviction, sure that it will also lead to greater employment for our country, which is the real priority for Italians. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romagnoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, a reform for all: this is the foundation of our revolution for the world of work. The opposition tries to diminish the scope of this law, the whole opposition, from right to left of course. The reason is clear: they try to hide the economic history of our country for the last thirty years behind a wall of omerta, approximation, fear, pessimism, mere political exploitation, thinking of fooling the Italians. They can try to hide themselves, but they cannot hide the millions of citizens who, because of their inability, have entered into the tragedy of poverty, a life without work, a lack of future for themselves and for their family. They chatted for years the famous article 1 of the Constitution; then, as usual, with their political actions they made it a piece of paper. The victims of this opposition disconnected from reality, far light years from the real needs of the citizens and who for decades ruled the country were not only the poorest and most fragile citizens, but also the middle classes, those who have always been the silent and industrious force that allowed Italy to become an advanced country from an economic and social point of view. All too often, the unholy measures of the last governments have been directed towards the usual bearers of turbid interests. This measure, on the other hand, aims to bring the citizen back to the centre, both the most fragile one (with concrete measures such as citizenship income) and the one belonging to the middle class, now entering the limbo of a life deprived of work, prospects and hope for their future and their children. We want to return this hope and perspective to them. We have made a commitment to the citizens and we are keeping it: no one must remain behind and no one will be left behind. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The measures of this law, in fact, are clear, concrete and touch on the weaknesses of the labour system, with massive active policy interventions. In the employment centres of Germany and France, for example, 100,000 and 54,000 employees work respectively; in Italy there are 8,000. More: according to Eurostat 2015 data, spending on labour services is 0.05% of GDP, much lower than in Germany (0.36 per cent) and France (0.25 per cent), and this is an abysmal distance that no one has ever thought of touching. None; but this Government, the Government of which is part of the Movimento 5 Stars, yes. The aim of the reform of employment centres, which is a genuine structural reform of the labour market, is to bring more than 3 million discouraged people back into play, who for years have not even tried to actively seek work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The influx of these discouraged to employment centres will allow the rate of participation in the labour force to be revised upwards, resulting in potential GDP growth. Employment centres are at the heart of the public system to give jobs to young people and older people, and we have met people who are extremely prepared in employment centres. These employment centers, so mistreated by those who have managed them badly for decades, today we want to put them back at the center, enhancing their skills and professionalism. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] While for years the employment centres have been neglected, weakened, distorted in their important social function, we have today found the economic means and the convinced political will to provide them with renewed power, putting again at the side of the citizen in search of work these offices determining the origins of work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then, again with regard to active policies and reintegration into the labour market, we can mention both Article 8, which provides incentives for companies taking on the beneficiary of income full-time and permanent citizenship, and Article 9 which provides, as a means of employment integration, the relocation allowance. It is, in concrete terms, a sum of money that the worker will be able to spend on bodies accredited by the employment centres that will enable him to receive an intensive job search service with the aim of helping the unemployed person to improve the possibility of relocating to the world of work, thus becoming a concrete measure of active policy. To conclude, I turn to the opposition, from left to right: you have handed us a country with five million poor, we have said it in many. Only a few years ago it was a million and a half. You have undermined the lives of the middle classes and you also find the courage to criticize our reform. In these days we have heard you protest because, according to you, the income of citizenship is too high. Truly your political objective, your ambition is to remove 30, 40 or 50 euros from Italian citizens in difficulty? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Yours is an attitude that you comment on yourself. Let me give you a word of advice: stop, think and think. You can try to convey the usual old speeches, the usual empty words, the now infamous fake news, but the reality is clear and objective and we want to reiterate it aloud with a few clear words: this is a reform for everyone, to restore dignity to millions of people and to give back a future to Italy. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u60	He's enlisted to speak Senator Patriarch. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u61	Mr President, some of the speeches by my colleagues in the majority were pushing me to tear my speech and try to recite, perhaps, Victor Hugo's "I Miserabili" by Steinbeck, perhaps to discern on the "Laudato si' of Pope Francis or on the social doctrine of the Church, because it seemed to me that the tone was this, the reflection was of this tenor. I am also happy to talk about globalization, charity and the Gospel. But we are talking today about this decree-law and - alas - I have to go back with my feet on the ground, in life, because here at the Senate we are not talking about Victor Hugo, Gramsci (great) and not even the Second Vatican Council, to which I bow, but we are talking about the decree-law on citizenship income. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I wish, poorly and with much humility, to return to the decree-law because it is on it that the confrontation must take place and not on the maximum systems, on which we can discern and I believe we could dedicate a whole evening on the problems of the crisis of Humanism and all that we want. Then, Mr President, I shall try to return to the substance of the measure. Can it be against a measure aimed at combating poverty? Of course not, as long as the provision goes in the right direction and good is done. Do good. In the provision in our examination the good you propose - I say it with much respect of the majority - is confused and imbued with a suffocating bureaucracy. Just read the text: there is a sequence of procedures and timings that are unrealizable, a paranoia of efficiency that has nothing to do with the efficiency that activates the good. And the poor will pay. Minister Di Maio only a few months ago stated that poverty would be wiped out. A challenging statement, but it won't be. Alas, not all 5 million absolute poor people in the country will be involved. It will probably be only 3 million and a quarter of that audience that is somehow recorded by Istat, will be excluded. It is not the data of the Democratic Party, but it is the data that we have all heard, as the President Catalfo can testify, from the unions, from the parliamentary office of budget, from Confindustria, from Alliance against poverty, from Caritas, from the Italian Episcopal Conference. These are data that we simply report as critical notes that should be heard. It will also not be a guaranteed and enforceable essential level. I am still sorry to say that because, as the decree-law states, rights are guaranteed within the limits of the available resources. You wrote it: within the limits of the resources available. I recall that in the previous parliamentary term it was a quote that you constantly contested, saying that the rights must be enforceable and that we all too often put this apostle. You put it back. You have stated that the rights are due except for the resources available. It is therefore not a right for everyone. It is a fixed-term right. Sorry to say it to Vice President Di Maio; it is fixed-term because if the resources will not be sufficient, the right will be removed. Other than the revolution of welfare, change and universalistic measures. You are creating an expectation that will produce even more disappointment and uncertainty. The fragile people and families so evoked in your speeches do not deserve illusions and false hopes. They just don't deserve it and they can't even afford it. We have made our proposals, as colleagues from the 11th Commission can testify. We have made proposals that were born not only from the Democratic Party, but above all that we have written by listening to the subjects who know poverty, attend it and have competence. We have listened to them and have descended some of the considerations that my colleague Nannicini has proposed and that I allow myself to propose again, renouncing to quote Victor Hugo, the Divine Comedy and the Promises weddings. The first of these observations is that the measure confuses two policy lines that experience teaches to keep well distinct: that of combating poverty and that of active labour policies. It can happen, ladies and gentlemen, that a poor person cannot be employed for his or her own reasons of life, and it can happen that an unemployed person is not in poverty and needs training, a relocation to the productive system of the territory. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Let us say with concern, because we are not here to oppose unnecessarily, that your measure risks not reaching the poorest because in the text of the Parliamentary Budget Office it is said - and I am not told that they are biased, leftist or communist - that only 20% of the beneficiaries can be relocated. The others aren't. Leave the unemployed without protection. So do not take into account the poor and the poorest and leave the unemployed without protection. Social poverty and income poverty must be distinguished: income poverty is fought with employment, producing work, while social poverty is fought with responsibility. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They are two different paths: be patient, colleagues, listen every now and then! Social poverty needs to take responsibility, attention, and collaboration between the territory and the community. Income poverty needs investment and those who can produce investment and work are companies, which you have not even mentioned in this text, if anything by entrusting them with other tasks. On the families I want to make a second note and once again we do not say it, but the data say it. The poorest and most needy families will not be helped. The bond of ten years of residence, two of which are consecutive, affects an audience of 300,000 people, who have the sole fault of being foreign families, although regular. The 30,000 homeless, the poorest among the poor, are hit. Improbable capital checks are required from foreign families, which you have introduced to justify and give regulatory coverage to what happened in Lodi. It's an infinite sadness, but rights! Even Italians living abroad are hit, who on returning home, in Italy, in case of need, will not be able to access any benefit. This is the thing that is happening, these are the facts of reality, because politics is made of reality and not philosophical dreams. It is therefore a matter of measures that undermine constitutional rights, because for us people come first, all people, without whether or not they are Italian or foreign. An anti-poverty measure can only be inclusive, on the contrary you risk worsening the conditions of inequality, as will happen. It is a paradox or, to use a term very dear to you, it is a shame. Distinctive between the A-series and the B-series. In the decree-law in question, you excluded the B-series poor: it is a madness and something that, anthropologically, does not stand. It is not enough: the subsidy is calculated on the basis of an equivalence scale penalising disabled people and large families, especially those with children. It is another paradox, which does not take on the data provided by Istat and research institutes, which attest that more than a million children are in poverty, but in this text you do not talk about it and, indeed, you do not even touch on this issue. These are minors who must not be occupied, must not be taken to a centre for employment, should not be addressed on the platforms of such centres, but who need education, a renewed alliance with families, territory, schools and associative experiences, so that they can be integrated into the social fabric. The biggest investment that can be made for the country is that on the new generations, on the young, on the children and on the girls, but this is not talked about. It is not over: you have built the regulation system on two unrealizable fragility. The first fragility is the employment centers: you promised during the election campaign that we would expect a major reform of employment centers before introducing citizenship income. You said so and instead you marked a plant based on a fragility. You have not reformed the employment centres, despite the fact that hearings - as President Catalfo knows - have been held with a view to strengthening them. In the measure under consideration all this is not there and you have even increased the precariousness, with 6,000 navigators who will have a precarious contract. You have not even helped and supported those who are precarious within the employment centers. In conclusion, Mr President, with the income of inclusion we had proposed a different path, because a little bit of poverty had been studied. It took us two years and not because the provision was so complicated, but because such a provision is done by listening to reality and life. We need to know things: the poor need to know them a little and we cannot just declare poverty. We also need to listen to people who lose their days on poverty and give the right advice. So let's re-produce what we had proposed with the Rei: it was enough simply to improve and strengthen that experience. But you have denied everything, wasting time on the country again and believing that change is happening on nothing. The change, the good and profitable one, happens when positive actions are grafted on how much good it has been made. The Rei had within it a chain of command structured in an interesting way, had put at the center the territories, the municipalities that you here have penalized. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Those who live and live in the territories know that a family in difficulty does not address the employment centers, but goes to the mayor, the city councilman, the social worker, the Caritas, in the parishes. This was the heart, the place on which to act to counter poverty. You have not talked about this, you have even burdened the municipalities with other bureaucratic commitments, you have practically made them inept, unable to do so. This is your reform, a reform that will not give hope, a reform that will create more poverty, at a difficult time that is going through the country. You will make a maneuver of nine, ten billion (Tria says it will not be done, but Tria is a serious person and I imagine it will be done). Therefore, with this measure you give ten billion and in a few months (June-July) those ten billion you will have to take them back because the country will be in recession, in difficulty. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Do you know at the end what your citizenship income will be reduced to, even if you talk about rights, freedom, constitution? To a mere fixed-term subsidy, because in three years' time this subsidy will not be there and the families will be even more alone. This is your citizenship income: a great lost opportunity, I'm sorry to say it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u62	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u63	Mr President, Senator colleagues, Senator colleagues, government representatives today is a very good day to be from Movimento 5 Stars, because we have the opportunity to realize our dream of improving the quality of life of many Italians and at the same time of keeping to the commitments we have made in the electoral campaign. Finally, we are about to approve in this House a measure which contains four cornerstones of our political proposal: the fight against poverty and the improvement of active policies for the work we achieve through the income of citizenship, the raising of pensions through the citizenship pension and finally the overcoming of the notorious Fornero law, with the so-called 100 quota. The way to this House has been long, difficult and winding. We have always believed in it, even when the political solos and the great commentators in the newspapers told us that we would never succeed, that as soon as we arrived at the government we would change our minds and that Europe would not allow us to do so, that we would forget the electoral promises as everyone else does. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] But no, we are here at the service of the citizens, at the service of those who are currently suffering and need help from the community and trusting the State, the State that must be solidarity and fair, not bent on the interests of the few and the interests of the lobby. The detractors in effective permanent service accuse us of approving the income of citizenship at this time for mere electoral convenience, but I want to remind them that it has already been a year since the elections: how much more do our fellow citizens have to suffer, how long do they have to wait, who determines it when we have to approve this measure? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] After all, if we had done so, as you advise us next year, you would have told us that we were doing it because it was in function of the regional elections and so on, and so on, and then we would have perpetuated this speech. On the other hand, we are proud to approve this measure after only eight months of government, because those who suffer cannot wait. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I was talking about fighting poverty: in 2007, the year before the outbreak of the crisis that came to us from the United States - which I remind you was caused by the greed of financial speculators - the Italians in absolute poverty were about 1.7 million; in ten years, this number has tripled: the poor have become 5 million, which is a huge amount. In the South, again in 2017, one in ten families lived in absolute poverty. These are chilling numbers, which have grown out of proportion in a few years because of the crazy austerity policies imposed by Europe and embraced by Italian governments: Monti, Letta, Renzi, Gentiloni Silveri. You've made these policies. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Citizenship income will radically change the situation, because it will not only be a subsidy, but will be accompanied by an efficient and articulated system of active labour policies, centred on employment centres. As you know, they are expected to employ 4,000 new qualified operators, which will be added to the current 8,000 (which are very few, if we compare them with those of France and Germany, as Mr Romagnoli said just now); another 6,000 will be hired by ANPAL as a navigator, who will take over the beneficiaries of the citizenship income to accompany them step by step towards a new job. To become a navigator you will need a training, therefore a master's degree in economics, jurisprudence, sociology, political science, psychology or training sciences. In addition, another very important aspect, will be implemented the unitary information system of labour policies, which will be linked to the unitary information system of social services, which will allow to interconnect all existing databases, so that each worker's training and skills are known, so as to cross them with the needs and demands of the companies present throughout the national territory. The total investment in active labour policies will be 2 billion in 2019-2020. These investments will help bridge the gap that exists in this sector between our country and all other European countries and that is the son of the short-sighted policies of previous governments, which have never taken seriously the issue of active labour policies. As I said before, we in the Movimento 5 Star electoral campaign had promised to overcome the notorious Fornero law, setting up a 100 quota, promoting the generational shift, freeing up jobs for young people, renewing and improving the skills of the workforce and therefore, ultimately, starting to solve the generational conflict that forced hundreds of thousands of over 65 years of age to remain in the workplace and, at the same time, as many young people to unemployment or emigration. We also keep this promise in just eight months of work: we promised it and we are doing it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Thanks to this measure, strongly wanted by us, as I said, a million workers in the next three years will be able to anticipate the pension up to five years compared to the requirements of the Fornero law, which has stolen a piece of life from many people and many of our fellow countrymen. You will retire early with at least sixty-two years of age and thirty-eight years of contributions paid and also, if you have completed these requirements by 2018, you will be able to retire as early as 1 April 2019; instead, if you mature during 2019, you will be able to retire three months after you have completed them. For civil servants, 100 is taken from 1 August 2019 and for teachers in particular, it will take place on 1 September, in order to ensure the continuity of school for students. All civil servants, both those who choose 100, and the others, will immediately receive the first installment of the TFR or equivalent up to 45,000 euros. Another important novelty is that members of two or more social security agencies who are not pension holders will be able to accumulate insurance periods that are not coincident in the same managements administered by the INPS to access 100. We have also lowered the requirements for early retirement and therefore, from the current forty-three years and five months of contributions for men, we fall to forty-two years and ten months, i.e. seven months less, while for women the saving is one year, regardless of age. Well, we love this country of ours and are today excited and happy, because it is about to end the first stage of a long journey started by our founders Beppe Grillo and Gianroberto Casaleggio [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They have shown us the way and we are walking along it together with the citizens who believed in Movimento 5 Stars and voted for us. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u64	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u65	Mr President, we note that the Democratic Party has studied poverty very well, but I believe that it has learned little; given the results, it seems that it has learned absolutely nothing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] But they studied it, and it's already something. In order to understand the importance of the measure that we are debating today and that we are about to vote in this House, its scope and the beneficial effects it will have on the Italian people, I would ask that today in my speech I be allowed to borrow, almost as a tribute, some famous words spoken by Roy Batty. Because with regard to pensions, the reforms promoted in recent years and the debate that has been waged by the various political forces in this regard, there would be so much to say. And so I could say that, in this respect: I have seen of things that you humans could not imagine. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Mr President, I have seen a legitimate government which, supported by a parliamentary majority elected by the citizens' vote, has been forced to resign, led to exhaust its mandate on the basis of orders from above, of pressure from the international lobby and high finances, with blows of spread, with good peace of the result of the free elections with which the Italian people had freely expressed themselves. I saw coming immediately after a new government that for nothing represented the citizens, placed there at the will of the same ones who had pushed for the fall of the one before, the result of a maneuver of palace. The Government of the professors, of the loden, of those who were to save Italy, but who instead did the exact opposite, putting the interests of Italy and the Italians at the last place of their administrative agenda. For years we have had to swallow their bad reforms and their wrong choices, always accompanied by the "bill" Europe asks for it. Never once did they say: The Italians ask us to do so. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I've seen Ministers cry for their own reforms. The Fornero law, we all remember, unfortunately. We remember it, that we fought it, and no one forgets it. The young people, the exodus, the workers who had to undergo it remember it. An unfair measure that cries out revenge, voted in Parliament in 2011 by the coalition of parties that supported the Monti Government: PD, PdL, Union of Center, Future and Freedom for Italy and other Groups. The League voted against, always consistent and contrary to an unjust law, which had to be abolished. Matteo Salvini and the League promised and we are doing it, step by step: once again from words to deeds. I have seen associations, intellectuals, unions always ready to launch accusations against this Government or to go down to the streets to express their dissent, which little or nothing have done to oppose or block the Fornero law, thus giving reason to those who claim that very often certain acronyms are more concerned to defend their own existence or their own positions of power, rather than really defend the rights of workers and in particular of Italians. I have seen political parties that have been able to support the Monti and Letta Governments without any shame, and to give their support to the measures carried out by these Governments, which have certainly and indisputably brought Italy to the brink of the abyss and impoverished families, workers, pensioners and therefore Italians. Then, today, a few years later than the approval of that shameful reform, wear the blue vests against this government that is trying to remedy it. I'd be ashamed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Dear President, as I said earlier, I wanted to pay tribute to Roy Batty in order to list the absurdities, twists and wrong choices of those who preceded us. Not even in "Blade runner", a wonderful film by Ridley Scott, you've seen such incredible things. Although I'm not the great actor Rutger Hauer, I do my own sentence in the last epic scene. He said that all those moments will be lost in time, like tears in the rain. Well this is not our case, because none of us forgets what has happened in recent years; thanks to Matteo Salvini, the League and this Government we are here to change things. The government contract makes this clear: it is necessary to provide for the abolition of the imbalances in the social security system introduced by the reform of the so-called pensions Fornero. We will be able to leave work when the sum of the worker's age and years of contributions is at least 100, with the aim of enabling the retirement age to be reached with forty-one years of contribution seniority, also taking into account workers engaged in weary duties. Mr President, we have promised, we will do so and we will do so. Because this is not a point of arrival, be careful, but a starting point to disassemble the Fornero law and overcome it, giving concrete answers to the citizens, giving the hope of a future to our children, allowing those who have worked their whole life to finally enjoy the deserved pension. We are convinced that, where the freedom to choose whether or not to retire is restored, it gives dignity to the men and women who have worked throughout their lives; they are allowed to choose, Mr President. Yes, to choose; at a time when everything is imposed on us, this Government allows people to choose their own future. We have only listened, we have only had the strength and humility to listen to the cry of those to whom that dignity had been removed; Matteo Salvini has done so, this Government has done so, we are doing so in this House. To those who, with their vote, will help to approve this reform I say: be truly proud of it and, when you return to your territories, do it head-to-head, because today is the day when the Italians won their game, finally taking back their future. It's time to change. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u66	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u67	Mr President, fellow senators, members of the government, citizenship income is a measure that will not create a single job and will be totally useless and ineffective against poverty. Those who think that the income of citizenship can give a boost to employment show that they know neither how the Italian production system works nor, much less, the rules of the world of work. Unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, is only combated by creating new jobs and enabling companies to hire. It would have been useful, therefore, to propose real tax policies for those who hire. In fact, in order to allow Italian activities and companies to be active and can produce income we need to do a few things but concrete: reduce taxes and bureaucracy, stimulate the economy by increasing national investments and opening up to large public works, exactly the opposite of what this Government is doing. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] First give an income and then offer three job opportunities; common sense would have wanted you to do exactly the opposite: first given the job offers and then the income. Enhance employment centres with 4,000 recruitments. However, I remind the government that the 1,600 hired a year ago still have to be stabilised. You hire 6,000 navigators to direct people in search of a job and these will be the only jobs you can create; they will be the only jobs that this measure will create. If, then, it is true that we are talking about a potential audience of 5 million people who might require income, it means - I would like to reflect with you - that every navigator will have to deal with about 800 people: madness. Different profiles, different situations, different needs, different criticalities, managed by people who will not have adequate training in relation to the implementation times, so short, and that we do not yet know how and by whom they will be hired. The search for work will be done by those who are now looking for a job, but who from March will be called navigator; in this way it will not work, because to find a job to others you need to have technical skills and knowledge of the territory and the economic system of reference. But then everything is focused - allow me - on those who ask for work, and there is nothing about how labour demands will be acquired. How will employment centres know what the company's job offer is? What tool will you put on the field to know what kind of labour and, above all, which company needs it? There is no trace of this in the text. Many realities do not address employment centres. In agriculture, for example, only 2% of farms are looking for jobs. Well, what do you want to do to convince the other 98%? We do not see it in this provision and perhaps you do not know it either. But do you even know how much a seasonal farm worker earns? Earn between 800 and 900 euros per month. And you give 780 to those who are comfortably at home waiting for someone in his place to work for him. And if a person has an obligation to accept the offer, have you posed the problem that the company does not have the obligation to accept who will be sent to him? If a person is not accepted by any company because of his inability, what do we do? How should you behave? In all this, the young unemployed Italians are forgotten who, perhaps, do not qualify for citizenship income, but need to be accompanied by reintegration into work. The problem of unemployment can be solved, as well as with lower taxes and less bureaucracy for companies, starting with an integrated policy of the school-work system, with a specific policy aimed at training professional figures needed for companies: this is the right path. Instead, an ineffective, incomplete text has been proposed, written quickly (so that it can be approved before the European elections) and gives electoral tips without creating employment. The income of citizenship is for us a form of welfare that helps immigrants and smart people, forgetting the real poor, the large families, the disabled, and the weakest. In this way, the only ones who will not be helped are the honest Italians who really need it. Brothers of Italy proposed dozens of amendments to limit the damage of citizenship income and to improve the 100th quota. We have, however, found a wall of political arrogance which did not want any concrete confrontation. That is why we are sorry: not because our amendments were not accepted, but because of our nation. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u68	Senator Auddino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing to this House a measure which, at last, is in sharp discontinuity with the economic policies of past governments. Failure policies, which have caused an exponential increase in poverty in our country; up to five million poor people. The exceptional increase in absolute poverty, due to the fall in employment levels and a system of social shock absorbers that has so far failed, has made it necessary to introduce income support measures and work inclusion pathways through the strengthening of active labour policies. In the two years 2011-2013 there was the highest peak of poverty in the history of Italy in time of peace, precisely in the period of the policies of "austerity " so dear to the Monti Government and Europe. Italians in absolute poverty have gone from about two and a half million in 2011 to well over four million in 2013. A further increase was then recorded in the biennium 2014 -2016, when the absolute poor have passed to almost five million Italians. I remember the governments of those years, which a colleague of mine mentioned a moment ago, who have the responsibility for these inauspicious data: the Monti, Letta and Renzi Governments. There is no shortage of the Silver Gentile Government to this sad appeal. In 2017, the impact of absolute poverty in its Government on the Italian population rose to 8.4 percent. This is the bitter legacy of the Silver Gentiles Government. More than five million Italians who cannot afford access to primary goods and essential services, for an acceptable standard of living. Once again, the South suffers more than this economic trend, where the data are increasing, both for families and for individuals. But even the North isn't doing well, unfortunately. One in two poor families lives in rented homes, mostly in the metropolis of northern Italy. While one in five of the families living in a property house pays a mortgage. We thought about all this and we did it well by providing a contribution for families who have contracted a mortgage and also for those who pay a rent. The policies of the Renzi Government in 2014-2016 did not have any positive impact on growth; they only thought to give the bonus of 80 euros, a miserable tip of which they benefited as many as 10 million Italians and which cost as much as 10 billion euros, in debt on the future of our children, without having any effect on consumption. In addition, the poverty-fighting measure of the Silveri Gentiloni Government, which has just been appointed, in addition to being only a welfare measure, has been absolutely insufficient to satisfy the entire audience of the absolute poor. Our measure, on the other hand, provides a contribution of well 780 euros for singles and up to 1,330 euros for large families, putting on the plate 7 billion euros, already allocated in the budget law 2019. Let me give you one last note before I close. Of the recipients of the income of citizenship in working age, 60 percent have the title of study of the diploma of first grade secondary school, while 13 percent have the primary license or even no title. These are also the men and women of our country and the past governments have forgotten them, except to think about how to help banks and bankers. They are men and women who have never been taken into account by the budgetary laws and economic programmes of past governments. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These men and women would hardly find work today if we did not think to train these fellow citizens with a personalized path of professional retraining and completion of the studies that our pact provides for integration into the labour market. Finally, these citizens will have the opportunity to look ahead and start rebuilding their future. In order to protect the weakest, however, we have provided for sanctions for those who take advantage of it. There is no escape for the dishonest. Our measure introduces very serious control mechanisms that leave no room for those who do not want to commit themselves. Let our detractors be quiet; we have thought of everything. Let the smart guys worry about it. The benefit is conditional on the declaration of immediate availability for work by the adult members of the household, who will have to sign the employment pact at the employment centres and comply with their obligations. For this reason we have foreseen the strengthening of employment centres that, in the general indifference of all past governments (no one excluded), operate under difficult conditions and, indeed, impossible for decades. Eurostat data on spending on public employment services show a disarming gap compared to other European countries: in 2015 Italy spent a third of Spain and a sixth of France. For the first time a government invests seriously on the system of active policies committing as much as 2 billion euros in the next two years. Mr President, this is our government. Enough with the austerity that knocks down growth and rights. Now let's think of the weakest; let's put first the right to reintegration, dignity, work and workers; let's invest on the productivity of the country, betting on the formation of millions of people and on the valorization of human capital. How did we get to do all this? We have simply learned from the past and the sad experience we have gained, suffering from the bad governance of the past few years. Those governments, with this provision on the income of citizenship and quota 100, will be condemned to oblivion because a good legislator always draws lessons from the harmful results of past governments not to make the same mistakes. History teaches - as the great writer Günter Grass once said and wrote - but to get the right teachings you have to be good students. I shall conclude by addressing the minority. Sometimes, I don't understand the opposition; I don't understand what the poor have done. They are citizens too; I do not understand what the opposition against the poor has. In the speeches of my colleagues in the minority today I have seen bad scenarios and vatiginating desires worthy of the oracle of Delphi that foreshadow crisis due to a measure that is still under discussion and not yet approved. I don't get it. My colleagues in the opposition are giving advice; they have also given advice in the Commission. They offer us recipes to improve the provision. With these recipes, however, they cooked and - I would say - burned the dishes and hopes of millions of Italians when they were in the government. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u71	Mr President, since the debate that is taking place, I am immediately aware of one important thing, namely that we are about to vote on two separate measures in the next few hours. From this angle we can in fact see the split of this House, where on the one hand we have supporters of the income of citizenship who are well guarded from speaking and supporting the 100 quota, and on the other we have supporters of 100 quota who are careful to support the income of citizenship. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is a bit of a cross-section of the press conference to present the measure, when in the game of the cartels it emerged one bearing only the inscription referring to 100. It is therefore a nice curtain to demonstrate the unity, especially political, of the majority of the Government in the measures that must be approved in favour of the Italian people. The country certainly needs tools for income integration and support for families. This country certainly needs it, because we base our assumption on welfare, but making citizens' income pass today as an instrument capable of relaunching the economy, consumption and work is absolutely a fake, it is a lie that you are telling to Italian citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The programmes of Forza Italia and the centre-right have always provided for measures to support families and businesses, but they are considered as long-term structural objectives, therefore with commitments for work, for businesses, with tax reductions and deductions for families that in the last financial manoeuvre you have also tried to eliminate. The citizenship income is a real subsidy, it is a form of welfare end in itself, so much so that entrusted to the employment centers (so to a different instrument) the possibility of bringing together demand and supply of work, even if we all know the difficulties of today's employment centers. It is therefore a complicated operation, knowing well that in recent years the employment centers have been able to meet only 3% of demand and supply, so maybe it will be these fantastic navigators who will fix the demand that will emerge from the income of citizenship. It is therefore unthinkable. It will only remain a rain grant without any concrete return as regards the actual placement to the work of the Italian people [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I say this not to mention what will be, as is said by you, the economic return of the measure, because the multiplier used for citizenship income is only 0.5 percent. This means that for every euro of income received, only 50 cents will return to the economic circuit and we hope that they can return also and especially to our made in Italy, because we pay attention to the consumption of Italians. So today the state will spend twice as much as it will get back. What, then, will be the driving force for increased consumption today? What is the future of our Italy? Economics is not an abstract matter, it is not an invention; all this is written. Only public investment, which has a multiplier of more than 1%, drives growth. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Math is not an opinion, it is not a survey on the Rousseau platform. Perhaps, however, the only multiplier that this Government likes is that of consensus, but it is still a vision of low, very low profile, which, especially in the coming months, can produce social anger, given that, as has been said by colleagues, the possibility of giving to a single 780 euros, unlike the average income of a worker or a farmer who perceives 1,200 euros per month, will create inequalities and social anger. So you want to make a war. After that you have allocated EUR 10 billion on citizenship income because there are 6.5 million poor people and with this measure you are only content with one and a half million. And what will you say to the other 5 million? What did you expect for the other 5 million? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If everyone is to be helped, it must be done with absolutely concrete measures. With these measures - I say this with great humility - you have to be very careful, so that you risk doing very badly politically. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u72	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a great day not only for activists, sympathizers and spokesperson for the Movimento 5 Stars, but for the whole of Italy. In fact, we are here to finally approve a measure that puts the needs, rights and dignity of Italian citizens at the centre. Since his first entry into Parliament, six years ago, Movimento has fought for the establishment of citizenship income. We've made marches and demonstrations, and now it's about to become a reality. For months we have been saying that citizenship income is a welfare measure and will favour those who do not want to work: nothing more wrong. Italians are not like you paint them, lazy people ready for anything to stay at home sitting on the couch. They are honest people who want to work and support their families. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Our fellow citizens who have lost their jobs in recent years are desperate: entrepreneurs and fathers committed suicide because they did not know how to move forward. With the income of citizenship we offer an anchor of salvation, waiting to find a new job, to those who ask nothing but to regain dignity by getting up in the morning to go to work and live their work. But let's talk about the numbers of this measure, since so many polemics have arisen around these. It is said to be a measure for the benefit of the South, but in reality 47 percent of the beneficiaries live in the Centre-North. The income is expected by everyone, from North to South. I am talking for example about my region, Piedmont, which has suffered much more than other areas of the North than the crisis of past years; unemployment rates are still today for about a third higher than these. Those who believe that income in the North will see few demands are wrong or live in another world. Wherever there is a need for support that helps those in difficulty, efficient employment centres and figures that can help in the redevelopment process. This is why the introduction of citizenship income is accompanied by the reform of active labour policies, which also involves the recruitment of 10,000 new staff units at employment services. Finally, Italy has been equipped with a welfare tool that has been present for some time in almost all the countries of the European Union. And do not believe those who tell you that it had already been done with the introduction of the Rei, since this measure was aimed at an extremely reduced audience compared to the 5 million poor certified by Istat. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]] The Rei provided ridiculous sums, well away from the 780 euros of citizenship income that instead will allow the perceptors to get out of the absolute poverty line and start to live a dignified life again. But in this measure there is not only income, there are also early exit measures from work, in order to finally break the unfair chains imposed by the Fornero law. And I am referring to 100 (already widely described by my colleagues) but even more to a woman's option. In recent months we have all been targeted by social media campaigns to bring to our attention the request to extend this measure which had so much favored women, who thus have the possibility to retire if they have matured at least thirty-five years of contributory seniority and if they have turned fifty-eight years (if employees) or fifty-nine (if self-employed). Some colleagues and I have tabled an agenda that commits the Government to find the resources to extend the measure even for the years to come, so as to give the opportunity to withdraw from work even those women who remained out of the measure for a handful of months. Therefore - and I conclude - with the measures contained in this decree we go to place another fundamental piece in the transformation of our Country, after the decree dignity - that, incidentally, is proving extraordinarily effective in promoting the stabilization of contracts and the overcoming of precariousness [[Applause from the M5S Group]] - the corrupt sweep and the simplification decree, just to name a few. Finally we offer to many people - such as Mrs Rosa, who so often worried over me in recent months - the opportunity to retire first, in order to enjoy the grandchildren. We offer our young people the opportunity to enter the world of work effectively, but above all we allow millions of citizens to raise their heads and get back into play. It took years of battles, inside and outside the Palaces, but in the end, as they say, the tough guy wins it. And it's the citizens who win today. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u74	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u75	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide the difficulty of making this speech, because I would not like to be in the shoes of oppositions, particularly the PD, but also of friends of Forza Italia, and therefore I would not like to share their political frustration in seeing demolished, with this measure, what they have approved together, namely the Fornero law. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , and what they would have wanted to do (Forza Italia) and that they did without great success with regard to the income of citizenship. A lot of people told us it can't be done. As opposed to the slogan of the League "stop Fornero," many said that it cannot be done. And we did. Today, this majority does what many people wanted to discourage us from doing, because it was necessary to safeguard, at the expense of the citizens, the patriae casse. This provision can be made and indeed must be made, because the Fornero law is a provision that has been approved against the people and every provision that is approved against the people must be rejected. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is against the people a measure that raises the retirement age unfetteredly, and it is against the people a measure that, for example, creates that bag of destitutes that are precisely the exodus, the children of no one; it is against the people a measure that aims to mortify people and citizens. The goodness of our choice is due to the fact that we are aware that this is the beginning of a journey. As Salvini always says, we are demolishing the Fornero law; the goal is to arrive, from here to three years, at 41. The goodness of this journey is testified in an objective and indisputable way not by the chatter of politics, but by the formidable adhesion that so many citizens, thousands and thousands of Italian citizens, have manifested towards 100. It is an important path, which makes the pair with the citizenship income. Mr Tosato said earlier: we have a paradox in this House, where oppositions legitimately oppose the income of citizenship. On the one hand we have the PD and the center-left, who do it after failing with the income of inclusion, and on the other hand the friends of Forza Italia, who do it after in the electoral campaign they have flaunted to more I can not the income of dignity. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Instead, we do what we promised, and we do it not to make Italians settle. Those who say that this measure, as it has arrived in Parliament, tends to favour welfare, say something that does not correspond to the truth. The income of citizenship will come out of this Parliament, the Senate and the House, in a structured and connected way with a work path, because we want to give a perspective to the Italians and we absolutely do not want to make sure that the Italians can lose confidence in the State and their country. One last thought, President: I believe that this path is culturally profound and radically different from those followed by those who ruled the country until a few months ago because we try to give Italy and the Italians a new life, to the elderly a new life that goes along the path of dignity because those who have worked for a whole life, those who have split their backs for a whole life, those who have led their personal and family life with a high head, struggling to bring home a salary, it is right that at a certain age can enjoy the family, the wife, the grandchildren and all those with whom they could not live during working life. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But there is also a new life for young people that is called hope because 100, and also the income of citizenship, beyond the instrumental and political conjectures, tend to give new job opportunities because if many retire, many will have a new chance and many will return to live. It is an unambiguous objective fact that cannot be denied. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] To conclude, to these people, to the elderly who can enjoy their lives with dignity and to the young people who can walk it, instead, with hope, we must also dedicate a thought, namely that those crocodile tears go into the worldvision today have turned into a smile for these people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] It is the most important result that politics can achieve and I cannot but conclude this speech with a warm greeting: bye bye Fornero, without grudge, but without regret. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u76	Senator Pesco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u77	Mr President, I would never have thought that 2019 could become a historic year - perhaps even more than 2018 - because at last a milestone has been laid against poverty, a plague that afflicts and has afflicted many Italian families at any time in our history. The approval of the decree on the income of citizenship, and mainly its conversion into law that I hope will arrive in a few days in these classrooms, is and represents a concrete act against poverty, against inequalities, against the humiliation that has suffered and suffers who unfortunately does not have the resources necessary to live and now has the possibility to share. An act of courage, of course, of great courage had our colleagues of government who approved in a widely shared way this decree. We were the last in the field of anti-poverty instruments. Everywhere they have measures similar to citizenship income, in line with paragraph 3 of Article 34 of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. But Europe does not watch over this as it does on other aspects. In fact, this Union of which we are part, based on the Treaties, international agreements, the thresholds to be respected, the thresholds not to be exceeded, the directives to be transposed, competition, trade, the market, banks, all these things for which we are under special supervision and for which we cannot fail and for which we risk every day facing heavy sanctions for the coffers of the State and for the citizens, this Europe, the voice of poverty, which is even recognised in the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights and the Treaty of Lisbon, does not even provide for a sanction, not even an obligation, nothing at all. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, these are choices. The previous governments have chosen to liberalise the labour market wildly with easier jobs to give, harder to hold, with fewer rights and more duties, with more ease to enter and leave, to hire, to fire, to call, to work easy, perhaps for employers but not for workers. A job so precarious that it is irreconcilable with a serene life, with a constant salary, with a certain income, with the possibility of planning and making plans, of putting on a family, of making children, of buying a house. In short, a liberalisation of the labour market which has increased poverty. Colleagues and colleagues, these statements are based on studies showing that there is a direct relationship between labour market liberalisation and poverty. The data, the numbers, the graphs prove it. The facts prove it. So much so that in a household the state of poverty worsens more sharply with the presence of a precarious worker than with the presence of an unemployed person. In other words, the uncertainty of less than expected and discontinuous pay weighs more than the possibility of an unemployed person finding a stable job. Well, Mr President, the countries on the problem of poverty are free to make choices and in Italy we have perhaps distracted ourselves a little too much, perhaps we have waited a little too long. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In ten years the absolute poor have gone from one million to five million. Poverty is a serious problem. Probably the most serious problem for an advanced country. A problem that, in my humble opinion, presents two facets; a purely economic one and one related to the myriad of critical issues that often meet the people who are in that state. For the economic part, there is no doubt that there is no employment, no stable and regular work, no adequate salary to allow a decent life. Certainly, in part, this is due to the fact that employment opportunities are often lower than demands, expectations, especially in areas that are not fertile from an entrepreneurial point of view and for investment. If there is little work, there are few people who have enough skills to get that job. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, is it just a question of skills, skills and preparation? The answer is no, because many people who are in poverty also have other types of problems of a social, family, cultural nature, as well as critical issues that have to do with health, housing, self-closing, the absence of desire to live and the impossibility to face everyday problems. A variety of problems so wide that it is difficult to find suitable solutions for which we need separate, comprehensive and comprehensive assistance and analysis. For this reason, the income of citizenship provides different approaches depending on the criticality of the person; on the one hand, the purely occupational path for those who have no difficulty entering the world of work and, on the other, social inclusion paths aimed at alleviating the suffering of those who need help. We must not think that everything is so easy, but sooner or later the car had to be set in motion, primarily for people who needed more commitment from the institutions. Citizenship income is a valid and concrete measure against poverty because it includes different solutions for different problems: economic support is perhaps the most important, but not enough to get out of discomfort. This is why there has been a lot of focus on work and training and employment, as well as a lot of emphasis on incentives that in a complete and differentiated way will facilitate the encounter between demand and work supply and to improve the training aspect as much as possible. In fact, incentives are provided for companies that hire, for tutors and public and private agencies that place the beneficiary, for training agencies that do and will take useful courses, once and for all. And, again, for self-employed beneficiaries, rewarding incentives are provided and, perhaps, this is really the most important thing. Citizenship income is good for those who are worse and also good for our economy; it is the cornerstone from which Italy can start again. Today with the income of citizenship we can consider ourselves as our European partners and we will show that Italy too is ready for a cultural change made of sensitivity, solidity of altruism and pragmatism, serenity and work, contributions, controls, kindness and severity, rolled sleeves and hugs between people who have chosen once and for all to love, more good to those who have remained behind for too long. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u78	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u79	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, that the fundamental problem of our time is inequality is certainly a clear one and that this inequality is also a sign and responsibility of globalisation as it has occurred, of the failure of European austerity policies and in this also of the responsibilities that the centre-left in Europe has had in recent years, is an acquired fact. I agree with that. It is clear to me and I have no doubt that we needed and need to intervene on poverty and I clearly do not agree with the idea that poverty intervention is done for the idlers on the couch. These are statements which I do not agree with and which I consider to be profoundly wrong. Having said that, I make another point, because it is too simple to compare propaganda and words: I do not share the objection that an income of EUR 780 would produce a problem for those who have a job and have lower wages. In the country there is a wage emergency that must be tackled absolutely, but colleagues of the majority who support this Government, you have not dealt with in any way. Forget about the demagogy on Article 18 of the Workers' Statute: you download it on the PD, but you did nothing about Article 18, as you were committed to doing. You have not done so in the so-called decree of dignity and, therefore, try to have at least some consistency! What I am thinking about, and I hope you do too, is the merit of the matter. The first thing that does not convince me is this overlap between the fight against poverty - which, I repeat, is right - and active labour policies. Unfortunately, this will not work, for some statistical reasons. First, as you well know and as all studies tell us, about 35% of families in absolute poverty will not have the chance of work, not because they do not find it, but because they cannot go to work. How, then, do we deal with this issue? The Rei, however small and not sufficient, proposed a double path: on the one hand a social path, with social policies primarily managed by the municipalities, and on the other active policies for work. Let us forget, despite the latest amendments, the contradiction that you do not want to see, namely that you are in a situation of conflict with the regions and with the local authorities, on which you download a series of competences and which will have neither the resources nor the regulatory possibilities to address these problems. There's one thing that strikes me, though. Colleagues, I have listened carefully to all your speeches, because I have this vice, which in the policy of change I recognize to be such: I listen. Well, gentlemen, we are in a very critical economic situation. Could there be no real relationship between support policies and employment policies in this debate? The problem here is that no work is produced and that we are in a recessive process. I'm impressed that none of you even dialected this problem. It is serious, because you can set the limit of the three job offers and the two waste after which you are obliged to accept, but if the job is not there, with or without navigator, where are we going? You speak of rights, you have quoted Gramsci - and I appreciate that - you have spoken of the common good, you have put the weakest before you, but do you realize that you are voting for a measure that does something hateful, for example, compared to immigrants? That of a minimum stay of ten years in Italy is a condition that will lead a part of these families not to be able to access the income because they will not have the documents you are asking for, and you know it. Not to mention homeless people and minors. In short, there are a number of problems that this measure cannot solve. We have tried to table amendments and we have done so in a very constructive spirit, but not an answer on the substance has been given, because you are always forced, in your pleas, to shut your ears to the debate and seek mediation between you. But this will not be that miracle that you announced here for our country. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u80	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. Senator Bossi Simone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u81	Mr President, before entering into the heart of my speech, I would like to remind all those who are sitting in this House today and who voted in favour of the Fornero law that we in the League had not voted for that crap. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] With regard to some speeches, which I have followed carefully, of colleagues in opposition, who seem to be at the dance of the debutantes, forgetting the damage they have done, from my point of view a proper silence would have been more appropriate. However, given that I wanted to speak, I would like to point out that if I had had the opportunity to give them advice, I would have suggested simple basic concepts. Before I started the surgery, I would have suggested to them to watch for a fixed time in the camera, without resorting to the usual long media shows to gain some attention, I would have suggested that they take a breath and, for once, turn to all the young people to whom they have stolen the future, to all the exodus and to the people who have been ruined by their wretched law. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] At this point, if they had wanted to say something really intelligent to the Italians, three simple and humble words would have sufficed, that in the classrooms of the palaces they feel really little: "Excuse us, we have wrong." [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I have not forgotten, none of us here have forgotten and neither has the Italian people outside this Chamber forgotten and will never forget: December 6, 2011, conversion into law of Decree-Law No 201, Article 24, the unhappy date that will pass to history as the day when the Monti Government and the majority that then supported it have wounded the Italian people in an almost mortal way, with a cowardly measure profoundly unfair such as the Fornero reform. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I remember well that time when there was the Government of technicians: those good, who liked Europe so much and who said they wanted to save Italy, that today they are not even sitting here, but maybe they are at home looking comfortably at us in the chair; those who said to save Italy, but that they were actually doing the exact opposite. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I was thirty-five years old when I was home listening to the then Minister Fornero pronounce the annoying word choosy, to define young Italians as me. Today, eight years later, I feel I can represent here by the Senate all those guys you call picky and then they couldn't answer to you. It is a generation that is doing all kinds of work to survive, this: a generation of graduates and graduates with more masters than money in their pockets, of people considered too old to work for more than three years in the same place with hunger wages and no protection and, at the same time, considered too young, because today they are looking with experience also to cook sandwiches in a fast food or in a bar. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] These are us: people who, if they ever retire, will go there with hunger pensions, because of the wrong choices of those who preceded us, because in this country, before the arrival of the government in office, nobody ever cared about the generations to come. What hurts me even more is that they were cheated by those who should have worked hard to give them a dignified future. It's a good thing the Salvini League and this government are here. Fortunately, today we finally manage to turn that bad political page of our country. Fortunately, today we can finally give workers and future generations of workers the hope of retiring at a suitable age, in order to enjoy their old age. Fortunately, today we finally give dignity to early workers, to those who do usurping jobs, to women and to the weakest. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] From now on, retirement will become a choice, no longer the pursuit of an increasingly distant destination. Thanks to Matteo Salvini, the League and this majority government, 100 is no longer a promise, but from today it is a reality, a choice: the free choice to retire after a life spent working. To date, more than 65,000 requests have already been made by citizens: this is an important and very promising result, indicating that the path taken is the right one. Can you do better? Of course, we can always do better and we are always at the disposal of citizens to do better, listen to their needs and solve their problems. This is politics for us. With our pension system, the pension will not be combined with other income from work, because we want to promote that generational replacement that you have denied us. We want to give young people the opportunity to enter the world of work, earn, make a family, plan their future with greater serenity and without the fear of tomorrow. We have included the women option for female employees at fifty-eight and fifty-nine for self-employed women with at least thirty-five years of contributions. We have applied to early workers the adjustments on life expectancy; we have included the TFS for all public pensioners and not just for those of 100 quota, so you have the possibility to have the advance of the TFR up to 45,000 euros, while today they expect from two to three years. This is a change of course: at 100, the fugitives will finally see their pension suspended; even for them the times of the parcel are over. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] We are proud of this measure, which is a concrete response to the Italians: this is what people asked us, no more choosy, no more tears, no more reforms that European bureaucrats like more than Italian workers. Not a gift or an electoral ad, but a right law to retire. Once again, the League of Matthew Salvini and this Government pass from words to deeds, here is the real change: this means having contact with reality and with the country, while there were governments that prioritised banks, cooperatives, lobbying, ius soli, gay adoptions, parent 1 and parent 2. We don't. We deal with the daily lives of people, the real problems. We leave the rest to the others or what's left of the others. To tell you the truth, there is very little left of the others this evening, but it does nothing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Your being continually untied from reality, calling us with populist and sovereignistic contempt, for me it is only a medal on the chest that I will put close to the law on self-defense and the decree-law security and, from now on, at 100. Because since you've been in the opposition, you've finished doing damage and you've finished stealing our future. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u82	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u83	She's enlisted to speak Senator Matrisciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u84	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great emotion for me to speak here today on a historic day for this country. Today Italy makes an epochal step forward. He does so almost thirty years late and does so thanks to the work and obstinacy of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, already in 1992 Europe asked Italy to introduce measures on guaranteed income. More specifically, the Council Recommendation 92/441 defining the common criteria for sufficient resources and benefits in social protection systems states in the twelfth point: "In its resolution on combating poverty in the European Community, the European Parliament called for the introduction in all Member States of a guaranteed minimum income, which was intended as a factor for the inclusion of the poorest citizens in society." [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Access to the guaranteed minimum income, according to the recommendations of the European Union, should be renewable, without time restrictions. This right would be of an auxiliary nature to other social rights and policies, in order to promote economic and social integration. Why do I say that? Because on my way here this morning, I've been thinking about everything that's happened over the years. It happened so much, everything happened. It happened that a movement of citizens, born and raised without public money, in the squares, among the people arrived in less than ten years to the government of the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And once there, he fulfilled his commitments with the citizens. For someone this is a strange thing, and in fact you always try to belittle what good we are doing. Instead, for us it is called and it will always be called consistency. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Someone in this House said that we are financing nothing with this measure. Nothing? To give back dignity to five million people who, because of the crisis, have fallen behind and who are in absolute poverty is nothing? Don't make us laugh, please. With the income of citizenship we do nothing but implement the principles enshrined in the Constitution, which have long remained unenforced, and the recommendations of the European Union. And we do this by putting employment at the centre: investment in active policies for reintegration into the world of work, through the reorganization of employment centres, is one of the qualifying elements of this measure. They argue from the PD that citizenship income is a photocopy of the Rei, but there is nothing more wrong. The former Government neglected investment in active policies, training and personnel to follow the unemployed for reintegration into the world of work. With the income of citizenship, on the contrary, income support is closely linked to the training path through employment centres, employment agencies, training agencies, social services of municipalities and regions. Since 2013, since we filed the first bill on citizenship income at the first signature of the obstinate president of the Nunzia Catalfo Labor Commission, we have not stopped one day. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We fought in parliamentary classrooms and committees. We had banquets in the squares. We marched together with thousands of people who came from all over Italy: a human tide of men and women who in recent years has always made us feel their fundamental support. There, the women. I want to say this today, in front of all of you: citizenship income is a measure that places very high attention on women. All the more reason, since Italy - and I am not saying this, but a report from the World Economic Forum on the Global Gender gap - is the country with the highest number of women enrolled in the university, but, at the same time, a taillight for female employment. That is right: a vicious circle that we must absolutely break, and to do so, the income of citizenship is a very important element. In fact - I remind those who have obviously not studied the provision but who insist on wanting to give us lessons, despite its memorable failures - this is a measure for work, fair, just, of true emancipation, since women are recognized as being absolutely equal within the family, which perceives the income of citizenship through the mechanism of part-share. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It will be an opportunity of real ransom for those many women we have met in recent years and who have told us about their difficulties, the fears, the projects they would have wanted to carry out for them and for their loved ones, but who have broken against the difficulties that entails not having a job. Now these women will see the State really take their side, stretching out their hand and accompanying them in a serious and constant path of training and retraining. But not only that; because, as required by the decree-law, to those who want to undertake self-employment, to start an individual enterprise or a cooperative society in the first year of benefit will be recognized six monthly citizenship income, which will be paid into a single solution. At the same time, however, we wanted to recognise the care tasks of mothers with children under three years of age, who will be excluded from the cross-compliance path for those who benefit from citizenship income. Finally, there was an intervention on families with disabled people, who were part of the audience of the beneficiaries already in the original drafting of the decree-law. The protection has been further strengthened: for example, the family member of a disabled person who is serious or not self-sufficient will be exempt from the obligations to obtain income but, if he wishes to adhere to the labour pact, he will still be able to do so. A due act, pending approval of other important measures, such as that for the recognition and support of the family caregiver, already scheduled in the Commission work (it has already started). Because this - and we will always reiterate this - is a government of citizens for citizens. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u85	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u86	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-93.ana.u87	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Tuesday, February 26, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.58.
