ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the 5 Star Movement Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1315, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my reply will be a brief one with a few comments on the points made yesterday during the general debate. In particular, I want to reiterate that this is a decree-law that deals with two emergencies, the state of health of Calabria and the lack of doctors to guarantee health care. Interventions to the Head In fact, they are limited in time and serve to remove the main obstacles for the restoration of the management and administrative normality of Calabria. Draft of a Region that - as we have evidenced yesterday - is commissariat from 2010 and, however, has seen in the last years a progressive reduction of the essential levels of assistance, than today they do not reach the thresholds of sufficiency, and an exponential increase of the costs, like certified from the DAC and from the Court of the accounts; and yesterday in general discussion it has been said that all this also depends from the payment of the same invoice for two or three times. This maladministration has meant that all epidemiological indicators of the health status of the Calabrian population have deteriorated over the years. Yesterday Senator Zaffini spoke of a five-year reduction in the life expectancy of Calabrian citizens. And this reduction depends precisely on poor health management. Is it necessary to invest before any other measure is put into effect? This was the suggestion of Senator Magorno, whom I do not see present today and to whom I would like to ask: Senator, do you feel calm to invest even one euro without having the certainty that it is being used wisely for the citizens of Calabria? We know that those citizens today are demanding protection. They ask not to be left in the hands of those who, in all these years, forced them to emigrate to cure themselves, closing the departments and cutting off the services. Senator Engialavori yesterday charged Minister Grillo with closing the departments. I would like to remind him that, on the other hand, closure depends on regional planning errors and, of course, it is not the Minister's fault. The interventions in Chapter II serve, instead, to guarantee the continuity of the health benefits in order to finally reach and maintain the essential levels of assistance; those essential levels that in Calabria - as we have already said - are below the threshold of sufficiency. Senator Binetti and Senator Zaffini suggested that we call the doctors who are working abroad today. I would like to say, however, that today the competitions are already open to those doctors, but they do not participate. Those competitions must be deserted, because those doctors want to work in state-of-the-art structures from a technological and safety point of view, both for patients and operators. In the Calabrian structures today this security is not guaranteed, but with the decree-law we have taken a first step in this direction too, because there are funds for the improvement of infrastructure and hospital buildings. In order to guarantee the benefits we have finally unlocked the employment of health workers and we have removed the block of turnover in the regions in return plan, that had been introduced in the financial institution of 2005. This, yes, will be an important starting point. I would like to thank Senator Stable, who recognized this merit yesterday. We have also planned a further increase in the recruitment of staff, stabilizing all precarious staff in outsourced service. We have also planned to hire senior residents in the last year, once the rankings of all suitable subjects already specialists are exhausted and, in any case, in the interest of obtaining the title. Senator Zaffini suggested yesterday to increase the number of specialization grants. I would like to remind you that this has already been provided for in a previous measure. This year, in fact, for the first time, the medical specialization grants go from 6,200 to 8,000, with an increase of 1,800 grants; all this in anticipation of a total revision of the postgraduate training, based, finally, on a real programming of the needs. Senator Collina spoke yesterday of reformism opposed to populism and reformism understood as a capacity for programming. If we are here today to talk about shortage of doctors or training funnels, it is because, so far, programming has failed. Senator Collina always spoke of a special attention of the Minister to the virtuous regions. However, I would like to stress that today we are talking about the Calabria decree and not about the Veneto or Lombardy decree. We have also addressed the problem of general medicine, in particular the issue of gray shirts, those doctors who have worked for years ensuring the functioning of the National Health Service without, however, being recognized. Well, to these doctors who have worked for at least two years in the last ten years and have passed the competition of access to general medical courses we allow supernumerary admission to general medical courses. Moreover, for doctors of general medicine we expect the formation of a team of nurses and psychologists, because for us to start again from territorial medicine is also fundamental to solve the problem of crowding first aid. We have introduced the issue of health management, in particular the removal of politics from appointments in health care, also in this case in the mores of an organic review of the subject under discussion with a bill here in the Senate. In the final part, then, we faced the emergency of the shortage of medicines, providing that companies producing medicines should notify AIFA no longer two months in advance of the production blockade, but four months, and blocking exports in case of drug deficiency. This would have prevented - for example - the recent deficiency of the Sinemet anti-Parkinsonian drug. More could be done, but the deadline for the conversion of this decree-law is 1 July. I want to stress how great the work of involving oppositions to the Chamber, as well as to the Senate, with the approval - for example - of the agenda signed by Senator Binetti, who commits the Government to evaluate the increase of specialization grants for the most lacking specialties and to improve the modulation of the training network, or the agenda of Senator Zaffini, who commits the Government to evaluate the recruitment of specialists doctors within the training network and that the training project is decided by the Council of the school of specialization. In conclusion, I would like to thank all my colleagues in the Commission, with whom I am honoured to work. Our Commission is always working in a very constructive and respectful way for everyone's opinions, in the knowledge that our work has a direct effect on health and, therefore, on the lives of citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Binetti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u6	I call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u7	Mr President, with regard to the speeches made in yesterday's debate and also to the rapporteur's reply, Senator Castellone - to whom I repeat the important intention of our Commission, which I can only endorse - I have to say that we did not write the decree-law, but the Government wrote it and so we simply have to make some changes to improve it. Unfortunately, we have not succeeded in the Commission because, although my colleague has said that there is - and it is true - a sharing of intentions and an agenda has been adopted, I remember that the agendas are important but - let me say this - they do not have the legislative effectiveness of an amendment to the decree-law. Here, too, we find common intentions, but with very limited effectiveness. Returning to yesterday's debate, of course, the majority of our colleagues did nothing but point out the goodness of the measure, which, on the other hand - I regret, but I must say again this time - we are very critical, first of all because we are intervening in an extemporaneous and provisional way, because until 2021 we are doing measures that will then complicate the existence of people who already have precise and enforceable rights. I am talking - for example - about training: it has been said even before we have included the possibility of the residents in the last year, going to undermine the right of those who are already specialized and this is an important problem of inequality. Moreover - as I heard from Senator Endrizzi yesterday - the criterion of merit in identifying Commissioners has finally been applied. Now - and then I will be much more specific about the article on which we have tabled amendments, as happened also to the House, whose value has not been understood - there exists, thanks to Law No 171 of 2016 - therefore, when we were in the government with Renzi - an appropriate list to go to identify health directors, general and so on, making possible a specific appointment with specific characteristics. It is a list made thanks to a ranking formed after the commissions, made up of persons always competent in the matter (lawyers, administrators, magistrates), evaluated the curriculum of the persons within that list, which has the possibility to become a national list precisely because the Regions have diversified criteria. As we know, there are 21 regional health systems each with their own criteria. Well, in order to homogenize everything, that law has been made to have a unique list to access, giving the possibility to request to enter it with a precise curriculum for competence and proven experience. The age limit of sixty-five years was also laid down. Great. We, however, find that in this decree-law there are derogations through the addition of locutions such as - for example - "also", so it is also possible to derogate, giving the possibility of naming people you do not know by what criteria and merits and you can even exceed the age limits. In my reply, which I will then resume later in the debate on some of the amendments, I say that this measure, which wanted to remedy a situation for eighteen months, will not do so. Positive is the intention, because it was necessary and necessary to do so, but it will certainly not lead to cure a disease that lasts for many years and cannot be cured in an extemporaneous way. Speaking of health care, it would be like taking a pill that heals for a short time, and then the disease returns. This is not good, just as it is not good to find extemporaneous solutions that go - I said before - to destabilize an acquired right. I believe that this measure should have been done better, and it could have been done. If we had had the opportunity to give our contribution to the Senate, we would have liked it very much, taking inspiration also from the discussions held in the House. But it was not possible. As I said in the Commission too, it would perhaps have been more correct - we would have wasted less time in the Commission and all of us in this House today - to put trust. That's not a bad word. You have always told us this in the previous legislature: "put your trust in everything." Where you don't want to change anything - and in fact you didn't want to change anything - it would have been enough to make this important gesture, but you didn't want to be silent about putting yet another question of trust. And so, we're here to work on a decree-law that's gonna be plastered. But, on the other hand, we are used to such a practice. It is a decree of which absolutely nothing will be touched. In my reply - I repeat - I want to stress that this decree-law could have been done better and, therefore, our vote will certainly be against. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u8	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u9	Mr President, my reply will be brief. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Castellone, for her work in the Commission, to which I have little to add. Yesterday I listened carefully to all the speeches and - as I said in the Chamber and was also repeated by Senator Magorno - I remember how the scream of the Calabrian citizens is atavistic: the request for assistance is an ancient thing for Calabria. As a doctor I mean that there is time for observation of the patient, but then comes a time for action and, therefore, for the implementation of the right therapy. Let's say the patient's observation time lasted over thirty years. In particular, it is a time that has seen previous governments and previous political forces not paying attention perhaps to the Calabrian situation. Today has probably come, for the first time, the time to act. Clearly the action to be put in place can be perfectible and could be outlined in a better way, but, in any case, it does not demand - and I address to Senator Engialavori - to solve in an immediate way all the problems of the Calabrians. I don't think that's possible in 18 months. It is, however, an action which certainly serves as a resetting: that is the word that must remain in the House. The measure under consideration is a resetting of the Calabrian situation, on which you can then begin to invest and understand in a targeted way what are the services to be improved, such as those to be implemented and which to cut (with this I mean cutting waste in some Calabrian companies). This is an action that begins today with a resetting and so must be understood. I believe that, following this transitional phase, Calabria will have a good chance to resume the right path. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u10	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I would also like to point out to my colleagues that, in line with what has already been decided in the course of the examination in the referee, the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, declares that amendments 11.14, 11.0.1, 11.0.2, 12.0.4, 13.0.3 and 13.0.5, as they are outside the scope of the decree-law, cannot be proposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 1.4 calls for the following paragraph 1-a to be added after paragraph 1: Calabria is not subject to compliance with the legislation referred to in Article 4 of Decree-Law No 159 of 1 October 2007 and Article 2, paragraph 84 of Law No 191 of 23 December 2009 for the existing health debt as of 31 December 2018. This debt, payable to the State, is also repaid by the Calabria Region through an increase in the additional regional income tax of natural persons over the period of thirty years until 31 December 2048. To be clear, considering that Calabria has been a commissioner for ten years, that all Commissioners have been appointed by the Government and by central politics and, moreover, have not been Commissioners from Calabria, we do not believe that we are responsible for the increase in the debt that has occurred under the management of the commissioner. [[Brusio.]] We Calabrians are also available - I ask the House to be silent - to pay the billion debt until 31 December 2048. If you check the value of the debt, it means that every Calabrian citizen will have to pay 8 euros a year; we pay many more now, having no health care, to comply with the return plan. As you know, the regulation governing the Commission for Health obliges the Commissioner to increase the additional Irpefs and the additional IRAPs in the region where there has been a management deficit, as happened in Calabria with the last Commissioner, who brought EUR 160 million in management deficit. The Calabrians are not to blame, but they are willing, immediately, to mortgage for twenty years those additional Irpef and IRAP, that however will be increased, in order to allocate them to the payment of the debt, provided that from today it is reset and can be restarted with the investments in Calabria in the field of health and programming the territorial assistance, that is missing for ten years. We are also available to this, because the message is that we never cry on ourselves and do not give up: all of us Calabrians want to help achieve our rights, especially those enshrined in the Constitution. I therefore ask, above all to the Calabrian senators, to make them spokesperson within their parties, because Calabria wants the ransom and wants to show it, also giving this opportunity to the Government, although it is not responsible for the increase of the debt, created by the commissioners, that they were not Calabrian. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u12	The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u13	Mr President, I am against all the amendments and the agenda that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u14	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u15	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u18	MANGIALAVORI (FI-BP). Mr President, with this amendment, we are calling for the deletion of all the articles of Chapter I, since - as pointed out in the speeches by the senators of our Group during yesterday's sitting - we absolutely do not agree with and absolutely do not agree with the text of the decree-law in question. I want to say to the Undersecretary, who kindly gave an answer to me asking in the course of his speech that I would expect more. Mr. Undersecretary, of course, it is not your fault for what happened in previous years. However, we have been starting from nine years in the police station, which means that for nine years Calabrian health care has been managed by men designated by governments, who have succeeded each other over time. So, I would have expected that those nine years would provide a sufficient basis for something to do right away. Instead, you representative of the government, with your statements, told us that this is a resetting, a way to understand the situation, to understand how to act at the end of the eighteen months. Should we wait another 18 months in Calabria? What do we tell the people of Calabria? Shall we tell them that for nine years governments have been joking? I believe that the basis for making decisions in the immediate future is there. It certainly does not need a further person, who comes from outside and does not know Calabria, to orientate himself for a year and a half and then tell what he will have to do to his successor, perhaps indicated by another Government, that perhaps, in turn, will reset everything. Mr Undersecretary, gentlemen of the majority, think before you approve this text, which is indeed yet another mockery for the people of Calabria.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u19	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.1 tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti, until the words "articles" of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.2 and 1.3. are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 1.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Siclari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the discussion of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Rule 2, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u20	Mr President, Amendment 2.1, at my first signature, provides for the Commissioner ad acta to be able, within 30 days of the entry into force of this Decree-Law, to consult the mayors of the territories in which the hospitals are located. This is essential because, however, mayors know exactly the situation in their areas and can help a Commissioner who arrives without knowing absolutely the territorial situation. Amendment 2.1 therefore calls for the Commissioner ad acta to set up, exclusively for advisory purposes (because in order to be able to decide, one must first listen, especially when one does not know the situations), the consultation of the mayors of the territories in which these hospitals are located.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u21	The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u22	Mr President, I am against all the amendments and the G2100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u23	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u24	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1, on which there is a favourable opinion of the Budget Committee subject to rewording. Senator Rizzotti, do you accept this amendment proposal? Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). I welcome you, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore ask the rapporteur to comment on Amendment 2.1. Mrs Castellone, rapporteur. Mr President, the opinion remains opposed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Bini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.5 tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.100, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Rule 3, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u25	Mr President, I am speaking on Amendment 3.7 which, as I said in my reply, calls for the word 'also' to be expunged. Returning to the discourse made previously, paragraph 2 of article 3 of the decree-law under consideration establishes that the extraordinary commissioner is also chosen within the national list, referred to in article 1 of Legislative Decree No. 171 of 2016, among the subjects of proven competence and experience, in particular in the matter of health organization or business management also in quiescence. Amendment 3.7 proposes to delete the word: 'also', but we also believe that the word 'quiescence' should be deleted. That's the subject I was telling you about earlier. Why go and choose personal that you don't know? Some people know that because there has been a very harsh debate in the House about this measure and this specific amendment, which has already been tabled and we are now trying again. In fact, it derogates from a law which had been made specifically to avoid appointments in the absence of defined criteria. Of the law with defined criteria - that, as I told you, is the list of all the managers who can be appointed health director or general and with proven presence always made with the filter of the curriculum and a commission - at this point nothing is done anymore. It becomes all rag paper, because you can also find another person, obviously someone's acquaintance, who can play this role. We are talking about approved competence, but we do not understand which filter is used to establish its competence and, indeed, in quiescence. Having people who can access 100, even in this case everything is eliminated. Amendment 3.7 which we want to maintain - I hope that some people think about it - aims to delete the word 'also' so that only and exclusively from that list can the people to be appointed by the Commissioner ad acta also be chosen. Why shouldn't Calabria apply what applies to all the other regions? This is a problem on which we would like to pay attention. [[Applause from Senator Mirabelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u26	Mr President, Amendment 3.10 is largely related to what Mr Boldrini has already said because it aims to delete the words 'even in quiescence'. The reasons are the same as those mentioned above. It is clear that we are asking for objective and merit criteria for which we cannot derogate from this register and that we do not take people who, even if they have these requirements, are put at rest. According to us, the words "even in quiescence" do not make sense from this point of view because they widen the frame too much and allow a discretion of choice that is not based on criteria of merit and standards, as in these fields it is good there are.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u27	Mr President, Amendment 3.3 deals with the rule that since the day of the publication of the decree-law in the Official Journal, in practice since 3 May, all the Commissioners of hospital hospitals in Calabria have fallen. The amendment provides that the planned automatic forfeiture of regional commissioners takes place only on the assumption that there is a negative assessment arising from the non-achievement of the objectives and within 15 days from the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of the decree. I now come to Amendment 3.12. Paragraph 3 provides for a transitional provision that, until the appointment of the Special Commissioner, the relevant functions shall be carried out by the Administrative Director or the Health Director. It is then specifically provided that, in the absence of the administrative director and the health director, the ordinary administration is guaranteed by the senior administrative director by age assigned to complex operational units. With amendment 3.12, which is very reasonable, we ask instead that, in the absence of the administrative director and the health director, the ordinary administration should be ensured by the senior administrative director in the direction of complex operational units.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on Amendments 3.3 and 3.9. I absolutely agree with Mrs Boldrini. Senator Auddino said yesterday with force that politics would no longer use the methods of the past, but would look to merit. In fact, the content of Article 3 testifies, as has already been made clear in the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, that the Movimento 5 Star is using the old methods of politics to achieve its aims, if it is true - and it is - that in the other branch of Parliament the rapporteur has had to resign, because a clear conflict of interests has emerged. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] I would therefore ask the Secretary whether he would clarify whether that name arrived at Mr Grillo's table was removed from the list or not. The measure in question seeks to derogate from a national law, which applies to all and does nothing but safeguard merit and competence. There is a national list, to which the holders of the qualifications are registered, in which the persons responsible for the post of Director-General are identified. Now, as a case may be, an amendment has been tabled to the so-called Calabria Decree-Law under which persons who are not members of the national list may also be called, and - as a case may be - even if they are in quiescence. As a matter of fact, in the list arrived at Minister Grillo there is the name of a person who is not included in the national list of directors-general, it happens that he is in quiescence, as Mr Nesci admitted to the Chamber of Deputies that he is his unpaid collaborator and, by chance, that person should be appointed in the ASL of belonging to Mrs Nesci. Mr Undersecretary, I would like to know - all the Calabrians want to know - what criteria you used: whether those of the old policy, so despised by you, or the Nesci criterion - let us call it that - which, by means of ad hoc rules, indicates who must be in charge of the post of Director-General in your ASL. For these reasons, we are asking for amendments 3.3 and 3.9 to be adopted and I ask you, Secretary, to know whether that name was expounded or not. In fact, if it had not been expounded, it would be a very serious matter, because there is a clear conflict of interest. Other than reading ad personam, Mr. Undersecretary! I hope you will answer that question. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u29	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 3.15. The Undersecretary is present in the Chamber who has followed the work in the Commission and has been very helpful in comparison, albeit limited, given your political will to cancel the work of the Assembly because you have decided to decree urgency and, therefore, to prevent the Senate from giving value to the Calabria decree, which cannot be modified (as it should return to the Chamber of Deputies and there are no times). The Senate has been cancelled again and the entire Parliament and the Government will have to apologize to the Italians, because they are effectively canceling Parliament's powers. I agree with what Mr Mangialavori said about the Nesci case, which certainly concerns the so-called Calabria Decree-Law. I would like to understand who that saint is who, according to Article 3 of the measure, thanks to your magical powers, will return to earth and will be able to solve at the same time the problems of two ASPs that, by chance, cannot solve a commissioner working in a single ASP. In fact, the measure provides for the Commissioner to be able to deal with the ordinary administration of two ASPs which are currently unable to deliver the budgets. I want to say one thing: there is the technical table, which many of you do not know, at the National Agency for Regional Health Services (Agenas), which has to monitor budgets. How is it possible that in six years no one noticed that the budgets were missing in the ASPs and now they have to pay the Calabrian citizens? Now you propose not only the failure, but also the appointment of a commissioner who can follow two ASPs, who have not been able to be followed by two separate Commissioners, even registered in the national register of directors. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments of Senator Airola]] What are you talking about? Sit down.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u30	Senator Siclari, speak to the presidency. Senator Airola, if you wish to speak, you must ask for the floor on the amendments: please do not speak directly to Senator Siclari. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u31	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 3. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u32	Senator Pharaoh, you don't need your input right now.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u33	On the other hand, I am in favour of the G3.100 agenda, as has already been said in the Commission, provided that it is reworded by deleting the words 'and' which, in any case, will be deleted until the end of the period.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u34	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u35	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti, until the words "is chosen" are chosen. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.5 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.6, which is identical to Amendments 3.7 and 3.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u38	MANGIALAVORI (FI-BP). Mr President, on such an important subject, I would have expected an answer from the Undersecretary. Will Mr Nesci's unpaid collaborator Commissioner be appointed or not? Will you give us an answer? Please, on behalf of all Calabrians, I ask you to be honest. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Have the courage to say yes or no. And if so, take all the responsibilities and never speak of honesty again because you don't even know what it means. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Let us move on, Mr President; with the article we are examining you are eliminating the possibility for Calabrian companies to take part in tenders and excluding the regional single window for production activities (SUAP). This results in the elimination of thousands of jobs. Behind every pharmaceutical company that participates in a race, in each region there are staff and people who work for it. Eliminating the possibility of performing multiple races in Calabria means that all the employees of the various companies to participate and to draw up the various documents for a tender will all be fired: in addition to the damage, the mockery. If you do not approve Amendment 3.6, you will have thousands of workers on your conscience who will lose their jobs from today to tomorrow. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u39	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.6, tabled by Senator Mangialavori and other senators, identical to Amendments 3.7, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators, and 3.8, tabled by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator Mangialavori and other senators, identical to amendments 3.10 tabled by Senator Bini and other senators, and 3.11, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 3.13, tabled by Senator Errani and other senators, until the words "Suppress paragraph 4." It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 3.14 and 3.15 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.16 tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,17 tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u42	BINETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, this amendment tends to clarify a very important point. It concerns the organization of first aid, providing for the possibility of setting up facilities for patients arriving in white code to find primary care units in which they are taken into account, accessing the network of services that at that time prove necessary (radiographs, laboratory tests, etc.). This serves to lighten the workload of the first aid, especially for serious patients or patients arriving in critical conditions. To be able to distinguish the two paths, creating a parallel and connected structure, but different, means to recognize the need for specific competences of the first aid its peculiarity, but also means to continue to offer a service qualitatively appropriate to all patients, even when their syndrome is not severe or acute, but still need help. We are now entering that particular niche for which a patient goes to the emergency room whatever he has, because that's where he gets an answer to his diagnostic needs a little bit more advanced than the family doctor could offer him. To make this distinction, starting from the Calabria decree, could be interesting not only for the Calabria Region, but to initiate that structural and systematic reflection that is urgently needed for all the first aid of Italy. We are very sorry for the negative opinion on this amendment. Too bad, because it would have made Calabria, from this point of view, a model region, advanced and worthy of being taken into consideration by all the other Regions. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u43	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,18 tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 3.19, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u44	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u46	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, this bill, which certainly denounces prejudice, does not take into account the debate that has taken place for the regional self-governments of the North Regions. This amendment is based on a concept of proper administration and accountability. To give you the opposite opinion means not to apply the principles of regional autonomy - and I address my colleagues in the League - for which we fought. We cannot achieve regional autonomy in the North if we do not achieve regional autonomy in the South. To introduce these principles means to be able to have proper administration in our Southern regions. To express the opposite opinion means not to give an explanation to the country and citizens of the reason for a diversity of treatment of those principles. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u47	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.20 tabled by Senator Siclari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.21, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti, identical to amendments 3.22, tabled by Senator Siclari and other Senators, and 3.23, tabled by Senator Errani and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.24 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.25, tabled by Senator Siclari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.26, tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.27, tabled by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.28, tabled by Senator Siclari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.29, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,29 tabled by Senator Siclari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.30 tabled by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.31, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.32, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators, identical to Amendment 3.33, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Zaffini, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G3.100?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u48	Mr President, I would like to thank you and the rapporteur for their willingness. Here the problem is really trivial, colleagues: if you decide to use subjects who benefit from quiescence (i.e. who are already paid), they must lend their work free of charge. This is foreseen by almost all regional laws. It is provided for by logic, common sense and the Government of change cannot fail to share this trivial passage. So, I appreciate the government's willingness to approve a piece of the agenda but, unfortunately, the part that the government intends to remove is essential. So, I don't accept rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u49	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.100, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u52	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, since our work is proceeding in a rather orderly and swift manner, I would like to ask you in time to bring, on behalf of the Democratic Party, the invitation to the Minister of Health to be present for the conclusion of our work. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] Frankly, we have said several times that this Parliament has not distinguished itself by the quality of discussions, work and also by respect for our rules this year. Even less has it distinguished itself by quality, depth and intention to intervene with a policy of programming on the subject of health. Health is a crucial issue, which we have never seen here and, let alone, we have never seen the Minister. After a year we have a measure, which, moreover, shows a certain resolve on the subject by the Minister and the Government, and for the respect due to Parliament and the Senate it is appropriate that the Minister be present. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] Since we still have one hour for the vote on the amendments and another hour for explanations of vote, I would ask the Presidency to use all reasonableness of the case to invite the Minister to be present.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u53	Senator Ferrari, the Presidency will certainly do so even if, of course, the Government is present in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u56	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, with reference to what my colleague from the Democratic Party has just said, in order to facilitate the presence of the Minister, if any, if the majority wishes to favour this presence in this Chamber, and also to ask the courtesy of the group leaders for the opportunity to participate in the press conference that our President will hold here in the Senate at 11.30 a.m., we ask for a half-hour or forty-minute break in our work. In this way we will be able to participate in the press conference of President Meloni and also allow, of course, if the majority so wishes, to postpone the time of the approval of the decree and allow the Minister to be present in the Chamber. Clearly, this is a request made not on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, but on the basis of courtesy criteria, as is often the case. And I hope that the courtesy we have often shown will be recognized on this occasion. [[Comments from government banks and PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u57	Colleagues, the Presidency is always very strict about the holding and order of the House, even within the intercourse with the representatives of the Government. However, on this specific proposal for a suspension of work, since it has only been tabled now, I would ask the Group leaders to give their opinion and then consider how to proceed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u60	MANGIALAVORI (FI-BP). Mr President, yesterday I too stigmatized and highlighted the absence of the Minister of Health in the examination of the only measure that has been talking about health for a year now. I fully agree with the fact that you, Mr President, invite the Minister, because it is fair and respectful of this House and Parliament that the Minister should come and express his position.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u61	These are two different issues, Senator Mangiavori. On the request already made by the Group of the Party of European Socialists, the Presidency will do so through, although, of course, no one can be summoned. I now ask you to address the request for suspension of the work that has just been put forward by the Brothers of Italy Group. I would ask a group representative to speak on this point, so that we can proceed further.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u64	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I believe I have understood that the Brothers of Italy Group is an important meeting, equivalent to a group meeting, so there is nothing against this suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u67	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, neither does our Group have anything against the request for suspension, but we would prefer it to take place at least after the vote on the amendments and therefore, if possible, we would like the amendments to be examined and then the work to allow this group meeting to be suspended. We shall then proceed with explanations of vote and the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u68	I would say that we can therefore continue with the examination of the amendments, with the agreement to suspend the work after the vote on them. We now turn to the amendments referred to in Article 4, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u69	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u70	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u71	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 5, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u72	Mr President, I rise to explain Amendments 5.10 and 5.11, which essentially concern the possibility of considering as privileged creditors all the healthy companies that have worked and which have not been paid for two and a half years, because with the failure of the Calabria decree the ASP fails but also the companies that will no longer be paid, which have two and a half years of credits and have about 3,000 workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u73	Senator Binetti, has Amendment 5.5 been withdrawn and turned into an agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u74	Yes, practically the objective of the agenda is to convey a positive message and not only of general encouragement, putting objective tools at the disposal of companies in Calabria that are there, working well, with competence and honesty and are able to satisfy real needs of the territory, both of health and work. With this amendment, which we transform into an agenda, we ask the Government only to take into consideration this right of the companies that are in order, that in some way have contributed positively to the development of the Region and that have credits, so that this right is really payable and that it does not end up in a sort of cauldron that stifles in the overall debts of the Region, even what is actually the result of a job well done. Being able to do this means saying to the Calabrians: if you work well and honestly, the State will take into account the quality of your contribution and will not allow you to lose the advantage acquired. We know that you are there, in a difficult and complex region where there is a need to take on a rewarding perspective and not just a view of punishment. That is why I have turned the amendment into an agenda. I believe that by now the whole House knows that any kind of amendment we had tabled, even the best possible, would have been rejected, otherwise it would have meant postponing the measure to the House, exposing it to delays and anything else. Therefore, all our amendments will be rejected and therefore turning this into an agenda means objectively offering an opportunity of service to companies that work well in Calabria. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u75	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u76	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 5. I give a favourable opinion on the G5.5 agenda, provided that the second premise is put forward and that the commitment is reworded by deleting the words after the same credits until the end of the period.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u77	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u78	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u81	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, the deletion amendment itself is not a proposal, but it is an invitation to reflect, to evaluate, to rethink what we are doing. In fact, this article also applies to ASLs the same regime that applies to local authorities in failure. In this case, ASLs are indebted companies and do not have the possibility to pay debts and to intervene significantly in order to restore the suppliers that have performed, provided materials and turnover against ASLs. We don't know how this system works. It is not clear how the local health companies affiliated with the Region can deal with the problem. It has been said that there is the possibility of serving a payback, which is absolutely insufficient, so this remains a great question mark. The deleterious amendment seeks to make us all, and in particular the Government, reflect on those that could be absolutely unattended outcomes resulting from this article and from this way of proceeding. I believe that, in addition to the many issues that can be dealt with differently, we must also consider whether there is any chance that the proposed solutions will work in practice. From our point of view, this cannot work, so we ask for the deletion of the article and the reconsideration of what is contained in the decree-law. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u82	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other Senators, until the words 'Suppress Article'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 5.2 and 5.3 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.4, tabled by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.5 has been changed to agenda G5.5, on which there has been a request for reformulation. Senator Binetti, do you accept it? BINETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, I accept and thank you for not getting anything more. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G5.5 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.6, tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.7, tabled by Senator Bini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.8, tabled by Senator Mangialavori and other senators, identical to amendment 5.9, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 5.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.20 tabled by Senator Siclari, until the words "and due" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5.11. are therefore excluded. We move on to amendment 5.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.12 tabled by Senator Zaffini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 5.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.13, tabled by Senator Mangialavori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 6, which are to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views, with the warning that amendment 6.21 has been transformed into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u83	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 6 and on the agendas for G6100 and G6101. On the other hand, I am in favour of the G6.21 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u84	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u85	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.1 tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.2, tabled by Senator Collina and other senators, identical to amendment 6.3, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.4, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.5, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.6, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.7, tabled by Senator Mangialavori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.8, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.9, tabled by Senator Mangialavori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.10, tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.11, tabled by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.12, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.13, tabled by Senator Binetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.14, tabled by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.15, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti, until the words "with the Region" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 6.16 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.17, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.18, tabled by Senator Siclari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 6.19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.19 tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.20, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On amendment 6.23, the 5th Commission gave its opinion subject to a rewording. I ask Senator Boldrini if she accepts this reformulation. BOLDRINI (PD). No, Mr President, I do not accept and insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.23, tabled by Senator Boldrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On amendment 6.22, the 5th Commission gave its opinion subject to a rewording. I ask Senator Errani if he accepts this reformulation. Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). No, Mr President, I do not accept and insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.22, tabled by Senator Errani and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.21 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G6.21 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6.00, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6101, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Rauti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As no amendments have been tabled to Article 7, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendment to Article 8, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u86	Mr President, I am against Amendment 8.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u87	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u88	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senator Bini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As no amendments have been tabled to Article 9, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendments referred to in Article 10, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u89	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u90	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u91	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.1 tabled by Senator Zaffini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.2, tabled by Senator Siclari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 10.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.3 tabled by Senator Siclari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.4 tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.0.1, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 11, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u92	Mr President, Amendment 11.4 concerns the funds for the salaries of doctors and proposes to correct a mechanism which effectively prevents the increase of these funds, which has been stationary for more than ten years now. If we do not unlock these mechanisms, we may have enough residents, but empty lanes and the National Health Service are in trouble. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u93	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u94	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. When I call on the agendas, as I said in the Commission, to withdraw the agendas G11.100 and G11.104 because the proposers have signed similar and already accepted agendas in the Commission. The G11.105 agenda, as in the Commission, is accepted as a recommendation. I am against the G11.101 and G11.102 agendas. I am in favour of the adoption of the G11.103 agenda, provided that it is reworded only for the second commitment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u95	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u96	Let us move on to amendment 11.1 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 11.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 11.2, tabled by Senator Bini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 11.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 11.3 tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 11.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested to do so, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 11.4 tabled by Senator Stabile and other senators, until the words "dead" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 11.5 and 11.6. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 11.7 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.7 tabled by Senator Bini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 11.8 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u99	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, Amendment 11.8 aims to remove the famous 1.4% ceiling in 2004 for the expenditure of health workers. We have heard from colleagues that there has been an attempt to remedy the recruitment of staff in the National Health System. Perhaps it would have taken a little more courage to try to eliminate the famous 1.4 percent roof that is haunting us from so many financials. I say this because it is now well known that no limit has been set to the famous 100 quota that would allow, according to the health workers' unions, 140,000 operators at the end of 2018 to retire. We know that not everyone will ask the question, but many of these have already thought about it and, therefore, we will also have a disservice in this case because many services will be closed. Therefore, while the essential levels of assistance currently cannot be guaranteed for an economic issue, even if there is money, we will no longer have the staff implementing health practices. This is a major problem for all of us citizens. It would need, therefore, a further leap of courage by putting hand to an important measure such as this and to the important parts of chapter 11 and chapter 12 by removing the famous roof. In the previous legislature we were vexed and accused so much of not having done. We're not in the government anymore, and we hope someone does. This is the passage of democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u100	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.8, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 11.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.9 tabled by Senator Siclari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 11.10 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.10 tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.11 tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 11.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.12 tabled by Senator Siclari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 11.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u103	BY MAS (FI-BP). Mr President, I rise to speak on this amendment when my colleague, Mrs Stabile, told the House yesterday that there was an incongruity - let us call it a benevolent one - in this measure, where different things are treated in the same way and, in fact, those who have done well in recent years are penalised. First, Senator Caliendo - addressing above all the friends of the League - called for an amendment, saying: you want autonomy in health care, where you are able to do things well, it is clear that the State cannot punish you. I call on the majority to reconsider its positions and to accept amendment 11.13, which has an interpretative function and concerns the regions that provide the financing of the National Health Service of their territory without any contribution from the State budget. Among these, there is also my small region - Friuli-Venezia Giulia - which has had its accounts in order in the health sector since 1997. Under the rule, as you set it and as the Ministry of Economy and Finance suggests these days, from 2020 we will have to fall by 20 million euros, which is a substantial figure considering the development of expenditure, which, as you know, is growing by at least 5% per year, only for the technological endowments. The amendment is purely technical, so I call on the majority to consider it and, more importantly, to turn it into an agenda. The purpose is very simple. Mine is a heartfelt appeal to the friends of the League: you rightly ask today for the application of the principle of differentiated autonomy in the health sector, but go to punish those who have kept the accounts well. This is the drama and you are not seeing this. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u104	I would ask Senator Stable whether she intends to withdraw amendment 11.13 and turn it into an agenda. STABLE (FI-BP). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u105	The opinion was opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u106	The opinion was in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur. BY MAS (FI-BP). Then stay as an amendment!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u107	I understand, Senator Dal Mas. Having been requested to do so, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 11.13 tabled by Senator Stable and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 11.14 is unacceptable. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.15, tabled by Senator Mangialavori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 11.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 11.16 tabled by Senator Siclari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On the agenda, Mr G11.100, there is an invitation to withdraw. Senator Boldrini, do you accept?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u108	Yes, Mr President, because, as my colleague has already pointed out, the agenda has been incorporated into a single Commission agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u109	The G11.100 agenda has therefore been withdrawn. On the agenda, Mr G11.104, there is an invitation to withdraw. Senator Stable, do you accept? STABLE (FI-BP). Mr President, I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G11.104, tabled by Senator Stabile and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Stable, do you insist on voting on agenda G11.105? STABLE (FI-BP). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G11.105 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G11.101, presented by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G11.102, presented by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Binetti, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G11.103? BINETTI (FI-BP). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G11.103 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Amendments 11.0.1 and 11.0.2 cannot be proposed. We move on to Rule 12, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which are intended to be set out, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views, with the warning that amendment 12.33 has been turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u110	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 12. I give a favourable opinion on the G12,100 agenda, provided that the third commitment is reworded by the diction: 'to consider the possibility of re-launching, as has already been the case in the Commission. I am in favour of the G12.101 agenda. I am against the order of business, Mr G12.102. Finally, Amendment 12,33 has been turned into an agenda, on which I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u111	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u112	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.1, tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.2, tabled by Senator Binetti and other senators, identical to amendment 12.3 tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 12.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u115	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, Article 12 is an important article; it concerns the rewording and re-examination of the training and recruitment of doctors within the National Health Service. With Amendment 12.4 we propose to delete point (c) of paragraph 2, which is a very full-bodied paragraph included in the Decree-Law, where we mention all those who can be hired even if they do not possess the specialization, provided that they are attending the last year or the penultimate year if the specialization lasts five years. We call for the deletion of point (c) not because it is not necessary to intervene on this matter; we know that very well and we believe that a reorganization must be carried out, as we have already said, especially with regard to training in the field of specialisation, in conjunction obviously with the need for specialists within the national health system. Now this measure, the measures of which are temporary, because they will remain in force until 2021, seems to us to undermine two articles of the Constitution. I've anticipated it before and I'm not just saying it myself or the PD, but also the CRUI and all the university system, including the CUN. This decree-law becomes unconstitutional at this point, precisely because it violates Articles 3 and 97 of the Constitution; it is even expected to assign managerial duties to staff not yet trained, going to create further iniquity. It would have been better for us to go into the substance of the issues - as we have already said - by doing things regularly and without even derogating from certain European directives. Since we need staff, we could broaden the scope of grants. It is true that they have already been awarded, but the needs have not been taken into account, because the regions had already made a verification of the real needs of scholarships for residents. It was intended to do, in short, something that would have needed to be better thought out, even in order to achieve lasting results over time and not extemporaneous, going to create inequality anyway and recognizing different rights to people who have the same title of training. Moreover, we believe that the principle of essential levels of care (LEA) is also being violated, because we are not sure (but I hope so) that there is also some practice on the part of the doctor in training. In fact, for our doctors, in addition to the theoretical part, the most important part is the practical part, based on the relationship with the patient. There may be problems in identifying diagnoses and treatments, because residents will have to manage themselves, even if they still have to finish their last year of specialization. So, in our view, there will also be a major problem with the essential levels of assistance. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u116	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.4 tabled by Senator Bini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u117	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u119	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, not later than a couple of months ago, Mr Boldrini and I tried to speak with Mr Grillo. There was not exactly any mention of this decree-law, but it was said that - as Mr Grillo had announced in the Senate on the occasion of a question time - a measure would respond to the demands we had made in this House. What were such instances? We had asked subtlely how he intended to solve the problem of the lack of residents in our country. The answer to this problem, Mr President - and I repeat this even though it has been mentioned by many - is simply a clear one: increasing grants. We can tell them and tell them in every way, in fact, repeating that this Government will intervene on the closed number in medical faculties, but the problem at the moment is not that. The emergency is that we don't have specialist doctors, because unfortunately, compared to the need of our country, the grants that allow young graduates to access the specializations are in really ridiculous number. When intervening with a decree-law, which has a purpose dictated by urgency, if nothing else, we try to put in line the points that serve to heal this urgency. If, alongside the buffer measure - because of this, which is also going to worsen, not improve the situation - Mr Grillo had also somehow increased and increased the grants, showing that there was one element to be able to guarantee the solution of such a serious problem, we could also have contributed in other ways to the ongoing debate. Amendment 12.5 that we have tabled today even goes in the direction of trying to improve the buffer measure that you have put in place, because basically you give responsibilities to children who cannot take them at the moment, because they have not been trained to the appropriate extent. We are not opposed to the fact that doctors can start a path other than specialization, nor to the idea of the medical specialist who works in a sort of autonomy: we would be hypocrites knowing that these things already happen. So let us try to regulate, settle and also reorganise this situation, but let us stress that the idea of a medical specialist makes sense as a buffer measure only over a short period of time and if it is accompanied by a series of structural changes in the postgraduate training system, which is missing here, Madam rapporteur: today you envisage a buffer measure without intervening on the postgraduate and what those young people will be doing. What, then, is needed? What we include in this amendment: true tutors, with doctors who can really deal with the training of the specialist in a sensible and concrete way, and appropriate shifts. Within this measure - and I am addressing the majority rapporteur, who has not even accepted an amendment - there is no indication of how doctors will be working. Send everything back to specific agreements between regions and universities, without giving guarantees that there will then be a real responsibility for the training of the doctor. It is a question of putting at risk, on the one hand, the health of citizens and, on the other hand, of harming the right of the same doctor to appropriate training - which should have been prepared by you also with different formulas - especially to the responsibility required subsequently. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u120	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.5, tabled by Senator Bini by other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.6 tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.7 tabled by Senator Stabile and other senators, essentially identical to amendments 12.9, tabled by Senator Binetti and other senators, 12.11, tabled by Senator Collina and other senators, and 12.12, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.8, tabled by Senator Stabile and other senators, identical to amendment 12.10 tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.13, tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 12.14, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators, up to the words: "to the three-year period 2019-2022". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 12.15 and 12.16 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.17, tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u123	TEXTOR (FI-BP). Mr President, I wanted to speak on this amendment which seeks to respond to the lack of doctors at this time. It is essential to be able to fill that gap of doctors who will retire without a replacement, precisely because there have been no forward-looking policies in this direction. It is essential to increase scholarships. I first heard the rapporteur speak of an increase from 6,200 to 8,000. This is perhaps already a further step, but it does not help to fill that innumerable shortage of doctors that we are recording and that are necessary above all taking into account the orography of our country. Let us think of centralised health services when, instead, we should understand that health services should be capillary. There are mountain resorts where, due to orographic problems, there is difficulty in accessing services that are released in the capitals. It is therefore of fundamental importance to continue the training of doctors in order to dispose of them in a reasonable number in order to ensure their presence in the mountainous territories. However, since we must not just talk about mountains, I am also referring to the draft law which was unanimously approved by this Government on the smaller islands. Also there, one of the demands to keep the smallest territories alive is precisely that of ensuring necessary health services. This amendment aims at specialized training and plans to find, within the budgets of health companies, the resources to be able to train doctors. This, therefore, is an additional element that can serve to decrease that gap and to fill that need of doctors that Italy needs.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u124	Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.18, tabled by Senators Testor and Siclari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.19, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.20 tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.21 tabled by Senator Bini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.22, tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.23, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.23 tabled by Senator Bini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 12,24, which is identical to Amendment 12,25, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.24, tabled by Senator Siclari and other senators, identical to Amendment 12.25, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 12.27, tabled by Senator Bini and other senators, until the words "communal" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and the subsequent amendment 12.26 are therefore not included. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.28 tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.29, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.29, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment No 12.30.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u127	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, I am also speaking on this amendment because there is a note here - which, I have to say, is very close to my heart, as I am thinking of many others - on the question of the continuity of the essential levels of assistance but in the context of emergency-emergency. This amendment was also suggested by the Regions when they gave their opinion during the hearings held in the House on this decree-law. It highlights the fact that there really is an extraordinary shortage of specialists in emergency-emergency areas. I would also point out that the specialization school in emergency-emergency medicine - which must have been completed with the completion of the diploma in order to be able to enter the competitions - is actually very recent, having been established in Italy in 2006; therefore you understand that compared to other specialization schools it is very recent. Therefore, to have experts and specialists from this school - lasting five years, but with very few scholarships - and to be able to integrate a need with an important offer, many years pass. With this amendment, we would like to specify, in the part where it is envisaged to employ figures who have not yet obtained specialization, that people are enrolled in the specialization school can also register and support competitions where they have at least five years' experience. People who have worked as part of the First Aid or the emergency-emergency of 118 can therefore be hired provided they have a five-year experience gained in the last ten years. They would therefore be people not just in training, but who have already worked in the field and who know what they are doing. We therefore call for the regions to be able to hire these people where there are competitions. For us this is a very important proposal, also because - I repeat - it was suggested by the Regions themselves. Our fear is that the essential levels of assistance, so highlighted by all, will fail; we are therefore calling for the possibility of access to invitations to tender even to persons who do not have so much experience in this area, even though they do not have at their backs the specialization school. We have, of course, also been denied these proposals. I thought it was really an important issue and it still deserved the attention of the government. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u128	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 12.30, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators, up to the words'medical staff'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 12.31 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 12.32, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.32 tabled by Senator Siclari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G12.33, tabled by Senator Siclari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to agenda G12.100, on which a rewording had been proposed. I therefore ask Senator Zaffini if he accepts it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u129	Yes, Mr President, this time we accept the rewording as a minor change.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u130	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G12,100 (text 2) and G12,101 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G12.102 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u133	Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). Mr President, we are examining the conversion into law of a decree-law for emergency measures by the Calabrian health service and other urgent health measures. Rule 12 contains provisions on health training and I would like to put a health problem in the spotlight with this agenda. I am referring to the fact that, without rules and without precise regulations, we favour the spread of abuse on a subject such as aesthetic medicine, an increasingly expanding sector with a growth of 12.5% per year and expected to reach a turnover of 19.4 billion euros in 2023. Since there are schools of training and specialization in aesthetic medicine, the Government should absolutely try to create a table to ensure that the two training schools currently operating can offer the necessary health guarantees. With regard to these training courses, the Medical Orders of some Provinces - for example Rome - have already provided a register for the registration of specialists in aesthetic medicine. The agenda would like to commit the Government to consider whether to recognize this specialty or to try to set up a table to create rules and norms against abuse.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u134	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G12.102, presented by Senators Rizzotti and Binetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 12.0.1, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators, up to the words "incremented" by Mr Boldrini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 12.0.2. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 12.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.0.3 tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 12.0.4 is unacceptable. Amendment 12.0.100 has been withdrawn and turned into an agenda, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u135	Mr President, I am against the agenda for G12.0.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u136	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u137	Senator Gallone, do you insist on keeping the agenda? GALLONE (FI-BP). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G12.0.100, presented by Senators Gallone and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendments to Article 13, which are referred to above, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u138	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Rule 13.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u139	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u140	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.1 tabled by Senator Siclari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.2 tabled by Senator Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u143	BINI (PD). Mr President, on Amendment 13.3 I should like to say a few words because in the Commission we have dealt with an issue that we are concerned with, namely the shortage of medicines, particularly with Parkinson's, and we have done joint work with the President. I think it is appropriate to provide for the possibility of informing AIFA in good time, because it can sometimes solve the problem. However, the amendment before me calls for a distinction to be made between cases where the lack is temporary and those where it is not. If the deficiency depends, for example in the case of Parkinson's medicines, on an interruption in production, it is possible to communicate it well in advance; it is evident that if the deficiency depends on delivery difficulties or unpredictable factors, it becomes very difficult to notify in advance. I think it would have been useful if we could have made this differentiation, but unfortunately this amendment, like all the others, was also rejected. [[Applause from the PD Group).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u144	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.3 tabled by Senator Bini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.4 tabled by Senator Siclari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.5 tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 13.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u147	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, with this amendment, I am returning to office on the issue of emergency and urgency, an issue that all citizens are holding, not just Senator Boldrini: if anything should happen to us, emergency and emergency staff are the first to help us. The workers of the First Aid or of 118 are in fact the very first people who come to help us in case of need of help. Having regard to and considering that the previous amendment on this subject was not adopted (on 12.30, concerning those who already had a training certified by contracts with companies, of co-ordinated and continuous collaboration or of entrusting tasks of a conventional nature, on the basis of which they could have obtained an employment, even if not in possession of specialization), we try again to intervene in this matter with the amendment under consideration, asking for more funds for schools of specialization in emergency and emergency, which are really very small. We therefore call for resources to be increased, in order to give the possibility to universities with specialization schools in emergency and emergency, to expand the number of scholarships, which - I repeat - are very small despite the fact that there is really an important need, as long as there is no need to cover the needs present throughout the national territory. The request to have more scholarships for this important and fundamental subject for all of us seemed to us another point to put to the attention of the Government. I shall not fail to do so again when examining a number of other measures, given that this amendment will of course be rejected, for various reasons, but also because we have obviously requested funds. Sooner or later, however, I hope to achieve a positive result with the adoption of an amendment to that effect. [[Applause from Senator Ferrari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u148	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 13.0.1, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators, until the words "the expenditure of" is authorised. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 13.0.2 are therefore excluded. Amendment 13.0.3 is not possible. Let us move on to Amendment 13.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.0.4 tabled by Senator Siclari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 13.0.5 is unacceptable. As no amendments have been tabled to Article 14, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendment to Article 15, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u149	Mr President, I am against the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u150	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u151	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.1, tabled by Senator Binetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As the voting on the amendments has been completed, I shall suspend the sitting until 12.30 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 11:53 a.m. and resumed at 12:34 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u154	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I greet the Minister, whom I thank for being here. The conversion into law of the decree-law dedicated to the special provisions for the Calabria Region, which - I remember - has been in the plan of return since 2009 - allows me to make more general reflections on our health system. During yesterday's debate and the amendments we voted on today, a number of health issues have emerged in this region. Some proposals have been made: some have been accepted and most have been rejected. However, I believe that in the context of this measure there is the maintenance or otherwise of our national health system. I would therefore like to make a broader reflection on our health, which has taken place just over forty years since its adoption. The first fundamental question I ask myself is: is our health care still able to respond adequately to the needs and health demands of our citizens? Can we count on sufficient economic resources to continue to organize a health care both hospital and on the territory, which is becoming more and more a focal point and nerve to manage chronicity, able to support all the human, instrumental and real estate resources necessary to design future health? It's true. Despite everything there are many excellences, many socio-sanitary models at the forefront in our country. I ask myself these questions precisely because I am not at all convinced that the current model of health care, and especially economic resources, can still guarantee the maintenance of such an important system. I report some data on the Italian population. The first is aging. In twenty - five years there will be more than five million over sixty - five years of age compared to the present. Chronicity, prevalence of chronic patients and prevalence of cancer patients will increase. This is a positive fact, because you live more and the treatments work better, but this also means more therapies, more taken care of and, therefore, more resources to be put in place than happens now. In some ways, the current model of the Health Service will have to be exceeded. It is true that our health system is recognized in the world as one of the best, as an inclusive model, a model that surely protects the population. It is also true, however, that the enormous resources needed by this socio-health organization are increasingly difficult to find, in a country that certainly does not shine for economic recovery and production of wealth. In addition, very important concepts have developed, such as prevention, primary prevention and increasing chronicity, which have become key elements of the health system. I am talking, therefore, about the prevention plan, about the chronicity plan, but without having the necessary resources and above all without having clear who does what. I am referring to the figure of doctors of general medicine who, by now, have to think about primary prevention, diagnosis and treatment. A central figure, however, deserves clarification regarding the role. We should have the courage, as we have not had in the past (and this speech involves the governments of center-right and center-left), to propose a different model. A model that goes on the one hand to fully guarantee the weak, the needy sections of the population, and on the other to introduce an insurance system that allows access (as in fact already happens) to private health, in a clear and completely orderly way, to make sufficient public resources, to organize a health system in which there are no longer waiting lists, in which hospitals are no longer dilapidated and where finally to organize a health policy on the territory. As I said before, this is a territory that must take on the responsibility of chronicity, and finally, as it should be, the health professions, such as nurses, which are essential to dealing with the problems of care, which will increasingly represent a fundamental need to manage non-self-sufficiency and disability. I say this because the problems of the Calabria Region are a bit the tip of an iceberg that, however, involves much of the health of this country. It is true that in recent years we have spoken, and still speak, of a health pact, of return plans and of LEA. However, if there are no necessary resources, the various prevention plans and chronicity plans represent only meaningless documents. As for the decree-law at our examination, we do not allow ourselves as a Group to enter into the substance, judging the Calabrian territory and the management of its health. I believe that malasanity is present in the South, the Centre and the North. I believe, however, that it was right to try to get into the matter with the central commissionership attempt, although I fear that there will be no significant results. The problem is that, on the one hand, it is about changing the mindset and, on the other, finding the necessary resources. As regards the second part of the measure, which concerns the medical professions and therefore the possibility of entering the world of work by residents and those who, in the course of general medicine, are preparing to enter that area, I do not think this is the right way to act. In the course of the general discussion and during the examination of the amendments, in fact, there were many critical issues: involving specialists not yet specialized in the world of work and bringing into the medical convention that are still finishing the course of training of general medicine I believe can create confusion, as in the case of the double ranking in general medicine, which involves those who do the course without scholarship. I would also like to highlight one aspect: among the general medical doctors, how many of those who have not yet finished the course, but will begin the convention activity, will they be able to finish their studies and then confirm their position? It will create, in my opinion, not little confusion. With regard to the closed number, although I do not think that is the point, we will still have to organize scholarships for specialties, and for general medicine, without the limit of the two million currently planned, in order to organize and plan the health of the future, health which at this time needs so many doctors. For all the critical issues, despite taking note of the effort that is being made to try to affect very serious situations, our Group announces abstention on the measure. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u157	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what is striking about the decree-law in our examination is basically the approach. It is quite clear that health is in an emergency; we should think about the reasons for this emergency. First of all, the already well-established and historic underestimating of financing; we are about 75% of the funding compared to the average level of Western European countries. It is also well known that there is an emergency in Calabria, and that there are political responsibilities there is also true, as the Minister never fails to point out. These are real political responsibilities. The real question, however, is: what is the design? What's the plan? What is the approach to solving and addressing these problems? And here emerges the very serious limit of the measure, indeed of these two measures in one. As far as Calabria is concerned, it substantially strengthens, extends and widens the mechanism of the Commissariat. Commissioner for Commissioners, to make other Commissioners. But, taking these decisions, did you make an analysis to understand why Calabria's multi-annual commissionership did not work? I frankly cannot find the answers in this decree-law. You cannot solve this problem by bringing it all to the centre; on the contrary, you will not solve this problem. I say this first of all to my colleagues in Calabria: this will not be the case. What are the three problems which, in my opinion, have caused the Commissioner's failure? This failure - and I can say it myself - has been coming from several years, from different governments and from several Commissioners. The first problem is the very idea of the Commissariat with an absolute hegemony of the MEF, which has started to manage and govern with one very wrong mission, that of bringing the accounts back; then it has been shown that the accounts do not return. It is enough to read - I stress, Minister, because I find it a positive fact - the technical report on this decree-law, in which the MEF finally realizes that the cuts, the blockage of turnover and the economic system do not solve the problem, not even that of the accounts, because in fact it produces dramatically further mobility. And mobility, even if in diversified years, the Calabria Region pays for it. I don't think you've done anything from this point of view. The second crucial point of crisis in the Commissioner's experience is that without the territory one does not go anywhere; without the territory even Superman manages to reorganize the health system of a reality. No one can. I do not make the rather convenient joke that, while talking about differentiated autonomy, hypercentralism is being done; it is too easy a joke. But in this decree-law I do not even see what is a priority of priorities: to think of building regional governance to manage this emergency. In eighteen months you may be able (I hope) to avoid paying your debts three times. Now, it is true that there is bad business, but a system is totally lacking: if you want to manage this problem you have to build a regional governance that is not there today, also because you cannot think of having as a vision the fact that you will have the Commissioner natural life during. Third critical point: the territory intended as a relationship of restructuring of the hospital network and the network of territorial services (primary care). Do not reconstruct the hospital network unless you build health care and services in the territory at the same time. It could be health homes, call them whatever you want, but still a series of local services that can give guarantees to citizens. The first question is investment, which in fact is not here: tackling this problem means working ten years - while everything else is demagogy and propaganda - to build a planning, implement a planning and promote an investment process that builds the conditions to guarantee the minimum levels, not only from the perspective of the LEA, but also of the relationship with the citizens, because here there is a great problem of trust. As the Minister knows well and as colleagues will remember, the old health pact also provided for the intervention of Agenas, also in conjunction with the regions with return plans, to achieve a balance between economic vision and health planning. It did not work and it will not work here either, because eighteen months are something illusory, first of all for the citizens of Calabria. I come to the second point and the second decree, another emergency. I wanted to make a little provocation by tabling an amendment, aware that the Senate could not discuss this decree-law. This debate is a pro-forma which, thanks to the availability of the Commission, will take place on some agenda, which does not go much further than mom's life. We could not discuss it, however, because there was in fact only one reading, that of the House: this is also a more general problem, Mr President, which this House will have to pose. [[Call the president back.]] I have finished, Mr President, I have to add only two things: I have done a little provocation, the proposal to abolish the threshold of 1.4% in 2004 for staff expenditure. I remember that, during the debate in this House on another measure (which I believe was related to the budget law), the leader of the League said that in a subsequent measure 1.4% would be abolished, which is a drama not only for the regions like Calabria, but for all. Something has been removed, of course, made for me positive in itself, but certainly completely insufficient: in fact, the bar on 2018 with the related expenses is a constraint, because that year has already incorporated the drama of the turn over block for years. So what are we talking about? I wonder why you didn't. It could have been at least a strategic signal to say enough to this logic that, in addition to the fact that the draw is mandatory, the MEF imposes what it wants on the organization. And then you talk about differentiated autonomy? But where? This is an intervention from the top of the MEF which even claims to say how many nurses and doctors should be hired, even if the balance of the budget is respected. That's absurd. You couldn't do that either. Minister, this is a piece in the piece. We must tackle - it is always said that we will - the relationship with universities, a radical change in the relationship between medical faculties and health services, and - another great issue - the relationship between general medicine doctors and health services, enhancing competence and the profession (so changing the convention, which leads nothing). If we do not discuss these issues, we will never face a structural problem of organizing the health system. I'm gonna finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Errani, I invite you to actually conclude, because you have already had 12 minutes of time available. Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. I shall conclude by announcing that, for these reasons, we shall vote against the measure. I hope, Minister, that we will arrive at a place - what you decide - where we can finally have a project and strategic debate on health, which is now in a total state of emergency. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u160	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, first of all, I welcome the Minister, whom we welcome to this House on the occasion of the first health measure, almost a year after his installation. This is certainly a measure of which the effort is appreciated, but definitely not the result. Yesterday, with a slightly colorful expression, I said that the measure would be renamed "Saudi calabria" because it takes into consideration a piece of country that seems not to exist as Italy and not there for many reasons. Firstly, after ten years of police management, with disastrous results to say the least (of which, obviously, you are not responsible, nor the current Government), we put hand to solutions that do not change anything compared to the economic system, as my colleague Errani would call it, but, indeed, in a combination of deadly disposition, add a criminalistic vision. In fact, it is established that a Commissioner is no longer enough, but two are needed, and that controllers of controllers are needed. These are rules which - it is not difficult to imagine - will further complicate an installation which has not solved the problem of the accounts, but - indeed - has aggravated them and, above all, has resulted in a gap of more than five years in life expectancy (of which you, Minister, are perfectly aware). 40 years after the launch of the National Health Service and ten years after the first commissioning of an Italian State Region, such as Calabria, we still do not solve the problem and condemn the Calabrian citizens to a five-year deficit in life expectancy. This is not a civilized nation, from Italy. I repeat, it's from "Saudi calabria" (Saudi calabria). All this could not be dealt with in such a superficial measure and, as I called it yesterday, graceful. This is disconcerting, Minister. There are fifteen articles on issues which actually represent four reforms. In fact, it is four reforms that we are talking about: the Calabrian police system; the medical and health professions; the Italian drug agency; some measures concerning judicial and accounting procedures. With a handful of articles we put the problem back in a way that - I repeat - is largely worrying, almost disconcerting, without acting on the causes, but only with an aspirin that cures the effects. For example, on the issue of the medical professions, starting from the analysis, which is now widely shared, of the shortage of specialist doctors, but not only, because there are also second-level medical professionals, there are three emergency levels. The first is that of access to university, the second is that of the availability of specialized doctors, the third is the need to make better available and more rationally used the current staff. You are acting on the third level, but you are doing so on a fast and worrying basis in some respects, for example, emergency doctors and general medical doctors. It acts like this, tearing, without predicting, without foreordaining solutions that put their hands on the causes. We have taken the example of scholarships: the rapporteur has explained the availability of an additional number of scholarships, but here we need a revolution, Minister. Mr Sileri, do not distract me from the Minister, because he is never here, so today I want it all for myself. We need something revolutionary, we need a vision. I have been on the other side for a lifetime compared to my colleague Errani, and I am totally embarrassed to have to share what he says, but we need a vision, Minister. Today you, having no responsibility for what happened in the Calabria Region, nor for what happens in the National Health Service in general, have the great opportunity, which also constitutes an obligation, to have a vision, to revolutionize a plant that no longer works, to give important signals. On the availability of specialization schools, for example, as I said yesterday, why not give the possibility to the pharmaceutical multinationals, to whom we have contracted research - which is far more serious - to pay a number of scholarships for the training of specialist doctors? Why not? What's the matter? If money is the problem, why not open up to these new forms of collaboration? There is much more to consider. What, then, Minister? We have finally dealt with the subject, but we are dealing with it for eighteen months, that is, for a fixed time and only in the part that concerns the effects and with some palliative measures, so we are very concerned because we believe that in reality this vision is not there. We believe that in reality the logic of the condominium administrator prevails over the logic of those who govern a phenomenon: today there is need for everything in health except for a condominium administrator. You see, Minister, this year we celebrate the 40th anniversary of the National Health Service. You know better than I do, because you have confidential data, that this system as it is on the last lap, the bell is ringed, it will not hold longer than the next two, three or four years. Perhaps we will celebrate the 42nd or 43rd anniversary, but we will certainly not celebrate the 45th or 50th anniversary of the National Health Service as it is. It is therefore necessary, for a whole series of reasons, to look carefully, even outside the National Health Service (the society that evolves, the chronicization of diseases, the lengthening of average life), a requirement that you, Minister, have a great responsibility, which is to foreshadow an opening, a vision. I repeat, for example, that the second pillar must be structured. All advanced economies have done so, France and the United Kingdom have done so in Europe. We're very late. I compare idiosyncrasia against the private with the old master-worker diatribe. Enough, let's get past these mental blocks. We open up to a new health service and start with these measures to give the image of a vision, if any. But I have the reasonable suspicion that it is not there: if there is, Minister, show us and show us. In this measure the vision is not there and there is not even the solution of the problems of the Calabria Region. We also believe that there are serious and important aspects of unconstitutionality, and it is no coincidence that we voted in favour of both prejudices. Because of everything I have briefly and briefly explained to you, Minister, we shall vote against your measure. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u163	BINI (PD). Mr President, on behalf of the PD Group, I too welcome Mr Grillo to this House. We are pleased to see you, Minister. We would have liked to have seen you earlier this year at other measures, at meetings of the Commission in which you never showed up, except for the first time. Coming to the substance, at this moment there are several orders of problems, beginning with those of a constitutional nature, already addressed in the vote on the preliminary ruling. One of them, the main one, is the lack of involvement of the Calabria Region. You, who always talk about differentiated autonomy, have centralized to an unheard-of level. Then there are a number of merit problems, big and important. There is talk of the Calabrian health system and general rules are included together. There is no mention of organisation, the quality of services. It only poses itself as a matter of accounts to be tidyed up. We have a Commissioner who should solve everything in one and a half years and choose questionable criteria; we do so by way of derogation from national law and we do not evaluate the merits of selection. Only thanks to an amendment by the PD Group to the House is it now referred to the achievement of the objectives of the LEAs and not only the objectives set out in the return plan from the deficit. To achieve a different level of services, a better level, we need to imagine a different organisation, but for this we need skills and political choices; we need to confront operators on the ground. This was very well said by my colleague Errani: how can one think of solving the health problem of a region without a minimum comparison with operators working on the territory? It is easier to appoint a commissioner, perhaps a faithful one, who will settle the accounts, if he succeeds. If then it will be at the expense of the health services to the citizens, the government of the change little interests. However, we come to the second part. You have decided to make 100 and you have not posed the problem of the health personnel who are already missing and will be missing, of specialists who are not there. What's the answer? Take who is not yet a specialist, creating unacceptable discrimination between those who have a degree and those who do not. Would it not have been better - we think - to put the resources to increase the scholarships of residents? No, the income of citizenship and quota 100 are electoral operations, otherwise the money is not there. Then you rinse your mouth with your brains on the run. How are we supposed to keep these brains on the run, Minister, if we think we don't put funds into scholarships, if we think we won't solve the problem of doctors who are missing and who will also be lacking in relation to pensions at 100? We have worked very hard on the text. We have tabled amendments and the question of constitutionality; we have done so with our ideas and with our passion. Everything has been rejected, we already knew it and we cannot blame it on the good rapporteur, because obviously the indication comes from the government. Only one room is enough to move forward. It is interesting to learn from you, who voted 'no' to the constitutional referendum. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You eliminate bicameralism equal to Constitution unchanged; you delete Title V on subjects competing with Constitution unchanged. You've done a constitutional reform without doing it, you're doing it de facto. This is your concept of democracy: democracy for you is a harp and so is the general interest. If this is your change, it is to be hoped that it will last little and that it will do as little damage as possible, because then it will also be late to be able to remedy, for the citizens of Calabria and for all Italian citizens. I'm announcing the Democratic Party's vote against. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u166	FREGOLENT (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am not going to go into the substance of the measure. Mine is more of a statement of principle. The League will vote in favour of this measure because it recognizes its necessity and urgency, given the gravity of the health of the Calabria Region. The findings of the Commission of Inquiry on the National Health Service of 2006, which have determined the Calabrian Health Commission in the last ten years, are still present today, with one citizen out of six who addresses other regions for treatment even on very simple pathologies, with dilapidated structures, inadequate equipment, administrations that pay invoices after even two and a half years or, worse, they pay bills already paid; lacked controls and too many benefits entrusted to private health, which here often, instead of being merely adjuvandum of public health, has become predominant, distorting in fact the principles of universality, gratuitousness and equality in access to care by citizens, on which our health system is based. In dealing with this measure, there are clearly reasons for necessity and urgency, which lead to its approval, as well as the fact that the Commission is scheduled for a short period of time. These are basically the reasons why, as a group, we believe that this measure should be voted on: shortness, necessity and urgency. I say this because for our Group this measure represents an exceptional approach, contrary to the principles with which the regions are managed that distinguish themselves in the national scenario for the quality of health. It will be necessary to make appropriate regulatory corrections in terms of the national system, in order to identify rules of engagement of the extraordinary commissioners, of the directors-general, with the identification of multidisciplinary specialized routes for the medical specializations and new rules of engagement for the private distributors, based on performance ratings and relative controls. We hope that soon Calabria and Calabria will also be able to return to a normal situation, even if, in order to achieve this result, there must be a clear blow, involving the whole of Calabrian society, even the blameless one of this situation. We hope that citizens will first abandon the spirit of resignation that is often felt in their voice by visiting regional structures. It is regrettable to note their disappointment and the habit of not believing in a health care that they pay like everyone else; they must instead demand that their representatives, legitimately elected, govern not only health, but, in general, the territories in terms of effectiveness and efficiency, for the confidence they have given them by voting. The regional autonomy, which we so much hope, goes in the direction of a responsible management of the allocated resources, also through concrete paths of redevelopment of health expenditure, in order to create the conditions of structural sustainability, in a universalistic key, of the National Health System. All said, I announce the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u167	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u169	SICLARI (FI-BP). Mr President, Minister, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, we have finally reached the vote on the decree-law, which has led to a number of issues raised here in this House and in the House of Deputies, and that I would have liked to have been improved by the Senate. I wanted to live today, from Calabrian, finally, the meaning of the unity of Italy. Today, I would have liked to perceive the will to make Calabria feel in Italy and the Calabrian Italian citizens. Instead, today, as a Calabrian, I did not hear the Government assume the responsibilities of politics, but I saw the will to regain not the responsibilities, but the positions that politics occupies, to go to occupy positions of power with the decree-law under consideration and to occupy Calabria. This is a real coup d'etat towards Calabria and towards the healthy health production systems of Calabria, which still work and risk closing tomorrow, for what you have foreseen in the decree-law and you know it well. Yesterday there were hundreds of Calabrians in Rome - citizens, patients, sick people and representatives of the associations of category - who protested in Piazza Montecitorio, because the decree-law starts from prejudice, which also some Calabrians confirm, like my colleagues from Calabria of the 5 Star Movement, that in Calabria is all 'ndrangheta. That is not the case: it is a shame only to say so and the Calabrian Members who support it must be ashamed. In Calabria the State is there and is stronger than 'ndrangheta and I would like to have applause left to the judiciary and investigators, for what they do every day, for twenty years, seven days out of seven and twenty hours out of twenty. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is not right to speak of the State in this way, when it is present in Calabria. It is more correct that you take responsibility and that you do not find the excuse of 'ndrangheta every time you have to decide for the rights in Calabria. The right to health should have found room for the political and power positions of your parties. We should have, and should have, especially you of the majority, given space to Article 3 of the Constitution, the right to equality, and Article 32 of the Constitution, on the right to health, which is implemented in the National Health Service that has not existed in Calabria for ten years, because we are the state's commissioner. For ten years we have not lived the right to health and we have emigrated for a simple cure and it has been ten years that the State pays 340 million euros to the other regions, rather than to Calabria, because we cannot administer the cures. Think only of the specialized outpatient services, which in Calabria are 9 for every Calabrian citizen, while in the rest of the country there are 16 and in the North there are 22, but we continue to pay the additional IRPEF and IRAP, for not having health care. I was forced to write a letter to the illustrious President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella to say that the State, as the Government is acting, must apologize to Calabria and Calabrians. In fact, this measure, which you have brought to the House with the urgent decree preventing us from improving it, is unconstitutional because with it you are attacking the right to health of the Calabrians. It does not provide for a single euro for Calabria; it does not provide for the release of turnover, although there are 1,410 doctors, 2,800 nurses and 1,000 health technicians; there are no resources to restructure all hospitals that do not comply with the anti-seismic regulations in Calabria and that put doctors, workers and patients at risk. No money is provided to build the five already designed hospitals that need to be built. Who are you mad at? With the Calabrians: why do we still deserve a police station that has failed for ten years? When Conte came to Calabria to announce unique and extraordinary initiatives to solve the problem of Calabrian health, I thought that really you would come to a measure with initiatives out of the ordinary. The decree-law in question has nothing extraordinary, except the maintenance of that very commissioner for whom you came to Calabria to announce extraordinary initiatives. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Keep a police station, don't give a resource, and especially the Calabrians say that everything in Calabria is in the hands of the 'ndrangheta. I do not want to allow that to anyone, because the state is there and the judiciary is worthy of the work it is doing. To my Calabrian colleagues I would like to say that we must think of those children who still take the plane of the Air Force to cure themselves. How many of you know there's no pediatric emergency room in the whole region? Two million citizens don't have a pediatric emergency room. But where are the resources to make these solutions? Did it take an extraordinary decree-law to appoint Cotticelli? He was sent away dark, it would have been enough to name Cotticelli. The 5 Stars declare that with the decree-law in question the 'ndrangheta is cut down, but it is not true; instead build the premises to destroy what is healthy. You are complicit in that criminal reality, because with your initiatives you destroy what is healthy. Send the ASPs in disarray, because the leaders and politicians have not assumed the responsibility to govern them, they have not been presented the budgets and you take it out with the Calabrians because, sending the ASPs, they will close the healthy companies, that they boast of the credits and that they will never see again a euro, if not in ten years, as expected by the failures of the public agencies. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That is why we have tabled an agenda, which was accepted after yesterday's demonstration, where hundreds of Calabrians came to the streets for their dignity, to protest for their right. We at Forza Italia managed to collect their requests with agendas that the Government has accepted. It is, however, a political commitment that must find its logical consequence in the next laws that will be passed, otherwise it will remain a political commitment that is not concrete in parliamentary activity. It is in this that the Government must commit itself: to give answers, to save healthy companies from the breakdown, as the agenda requires, and to predict the increase of outpatient specialized services that are 9 for each Calabrian, while in the North there are 22 for each citizen. I conclude by saying that yesterday we saw the most beautiful part of Calabria. There were all the connected televisions that broadcast live to unified networks, as important to us as the right to health. To show you how much we want to solve the problems, with an amendment we also proposed that we pay the public debt immediately, paying EUR 8 per year for 30 years, because we would pay the entire debt, but you did not accept it. Remember, however, that the Calabrians are experiencing what is happening. As for the intervention of the policy on health appointments, is it false to say that with the Calabria decree you will go to zero, because Cotticelli who appointed him? Who appoints the commissioners? Deputy Nesci's assistant, who appoints him? Dear friends, you have not solved the problem of 'ndrangheta because, thanking heaven, there are the judiciary and the investigators who work and Calabria is today the safest place in Italy for the presence of the judiciary and the State; above all you have not solved the problem of politics, because the nominations today are being made by you, with the commissioners. It is not true that you have turned politics away from Calabrian health care. It comes to think that you traded Calabria for your program agreement: you traded 2 million citizens. You put billions for your citizenship income without predicting a billion to solve that emergency that you have certified, otherwise you wouldn't have certified it coming to Calabria! You certified it, and you had to allocate the funds to solve the emergency, but you didn't. We in Forza Italia will be here to carry out our battles from the South to the North together and for this reason I thank my colleagues in the Commission who, although not Calabrian, have fought in the same way, because they want to party it, which still retains those ideals of freedom, democracy and equality. They did it as if they were Calabrian, so I thank my colleagues Binetti, Stabile and Rizzotti for all their work and the group leader Bernini for coordinating the work of Forza Italia. Certainly our vote on this measure will be against and with heartache I must admit that the institutional absence that my grandparents and then my parents told me, I am living it as a senator in this House. Thank you. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u170	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u172	DI MARZIO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, representatives of the Government, what is being put to the vote today is a fundamental measure, certainly for Calabrian health, but not only for it. The article in fact, in the first part, proposes to provoke a drastic change of paradigm in the management of health in Calabria, to date bankrupt: a sick system that no one has ever had the will to break down, despite the services offered to citizens are below the minimum acceptable threshold, while the costs are instead hyperbolic. In the second part, the measure sets out a series of measures to address other critical issues. The summits of ASL and hospitals of Calabria, but also of Lazio, Campania and Molise, can be chosen only by drawing from a ranking of merit; finally there is an unblocking of turnover for all the Regions in return plan; the ceiling of expenditure for the staff is changed and intervention is taken on the shortage of doctors throughout the national territory, returning unitary answers to the criticality of a system evidently afflicted by the inefficiency of a regional fragmentation which, moreover, in general discussion yesterday, seemed to me to have been quietly, but severely stigmatized with seemingly unknowing self-criticism precisely by those interested in the artificers. But let's go with order. On the health situation in Calabria it is sufficient to recall only a few fundamental facts in order to account for the level of degradation that afflicts it. The minimum level of delivery of essential levels of care, set at a score of 160, is only 136 in Calabria, a region from which the National Programme of outcomes exemplifies a sanitary emigration of more than 45 percent of patients with breast cancer and almost 70 percent of patients with thyroid cancer. We are talking about a region that has been subject to a return plan since December 2009, which has been in the pipeline since 2010 and with an estimated deficit of almost €170 million. Of course, in such a context, citizens very often choose to take care of themselves elsewhere, with unacceptable costs, not only economic, but also social and human, which weigh exclusively on them. The numbers are more eloquent than the words and, nevertheless, the governor of the Region turns out to be opposing with all the forces to this attempt of reorganization. If the numbers did not make the Calabrian health scandal clear enough, it would suffice to reflect on the assessments made in this regard by the general of the Carabinieri Saverio Cotticelli, in December last appointed by the government commissioner for the health of Calabria, who spoke of a dramatic situation, the result of years of bad management and mafia infiltrations that led, last, to the dissolution of the provincial health company of Reggio Calabria. Therefore, an intervention on this matter is no longer postponed, an intervention limited in time, in order to develop a special and extraordinary regime for the management of the Calabria Region in the hope that, once cured, the patient can resume to walk on his own legs. The polemics surrounding this decree-law leave frankly grounded. It is shocking to have to note that the ability to understand the absolute necessity and urgency of measures to put in order a system that is brought to collapse by the ineptitudes of those in Calabria, it seems, has taken care of anything but the interest of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We, on the other hand, have only that objective and that is what makes us clearly different. We believe that there should be no other interest in political action because, when this action is aimed at other things, what we have seen happen in Calabria or maybe we see it happening in the Supreme Council of the judiciary is happening. What, then, is the remedy? The commissioner ad acta Cotticelli - not the Region because, as we have always argued, the controller cannot be also the controlled - will carry out an extraordinary verification on the directors-general of the bodies of the Regional Health Service. The objective is to understand whether management has actually acted in line with the implementation of the return plan. If this check fails, the Commissioner will have the power to decide whether to withdraw from office and terminate the relevant contracts. In two words, one changes: the wrong person or the wrong person must finally be faced with his own responsibilities. This is how, in the event of negative evaluation by the Directors-General, special Commissioners of the Regional Health Service bodies will be appointed and a periodic review of the activities of the administrative and health directors will be carried out. The Commissioner, also using the National Agency for Regional Health Services (AGENAS) of the Guardia di Finanza, will carry out a general audit on the management of the institution to which he is responsible. If serious and repeated irregularities arise in the management of budgets, the Commissioner will propose to the Commissioner ad acta to arrange for the extraordinary management of the institution. The decree-law also intervenes in order to prevent those corruptive phenomena that seem to have become a constant figure of the activities of health management, giving the commissioner ad acta the possibility to propose to the prefect, after having heard the president of the DAC, the temporary management of the companies exhibiting health activities on behalf of the Regional Health Service. Anyone who has read the measure cannot, therefore, have not realized the nodes that are intended to dissolve: outside the directors-general not fulfilling; outside the corruption of health; outside the mafias from health; outside anyone - and I say: anyone - acts for objectives and interests other than the recovery of Calabrian health. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We do this in the only way possible: by inserting third-party figures in a system that has actually failed, so that they can concretely achieve the objective of correcting the structures in the hope that the Calabrians will finally have a health care in which to trust and to be proud. This is a speech that does not only concern Calabria, so much so that in the text there is a norm that will bridge with the most full-bodied bill of our colleague Maria Domenica Castellone, who intends to regulate the appointment of health leaders. For the time being, the Directors-General of Hospital Health Companies submitted to the Commission will be selected on the basis of their expertise and capabilities, on the basis of a ranking of merit. This is a rule which the Castellone bill will apply to all regions and which deserves to be adopted even more extensively and extensively. The appointment of health leaders - I say this as a doctor of hygiene and preventive medicine and as hospital health director - is really too serious - paraphrasing von Clausewitz - to let the politicians do it. Our goal is to make it an absolutely transparent and exclusively meritorious procedure and, above all, far from any political conditioning, such as those that have so far decreed a progressive degradation of the most strategic public service for the destinies of the country, to the exclusive advantage of any form of parasitic speculation. Finally, we are taking action on a number of urgent matters relating to the National Health Service. The old staff expenditure ceiling for 2010 was cancelled, which set the expenditure for health workers at 2004 levels. This will allow the regions to employ personnel within health care by fighting the precarious, obvious, when not merely contingent, both for the safety of patients and for that of employees. We remove the turnover block for all regions, even for those in the return plan. Colleagues, here too, the situation of catastrophe in which we have been faced is put to the fore. Today we hear the alarm coming from everywhere about an imminent shortage of doctors who would overwhelm the public health system in the satisfaction of those who advocate such an epilogue at the same time as they hypocritically pretend to want to exorcise it. It is certainly not a problem born today; it is certainly not a problem that would have been impossible to predict and avert in time. Could the programming of past years have been so shortsighted? Unfortunately, it seems to be so, unless it is considered that this has been intentionally functional, like the disposal of beds by the public system in order to transfer them to the private one, to a lucid design of disorganization of the national health system. Finally, I come to the last rule, of which it is essential to mention: the possibility offered to senior residents of the last year of access to competition procedures. It is easy to criticize the solutions found by others when no one - and I say no one - has ever dared to put his hand on the matter, leaving it incanculate. This is just one of the pieces that are patiently settling in a more general framework to solve the problem of the shortage of doctors. A problem, ladies and gentlemen, which must be resolved. You can no longer procrastinate by pretending nothing, because this strategy of removing the problem, is before everyone's eyes, has done nothing but favor interests outside the public service. The solutions are harmonised: the specialization grants have already been increased, there has been an intervention on the unblocking of turnover and now competitions are also open to specialists, qualified and trained doctors, who will be able to work in structures included in the training network. For this reason, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, I can only express a positive opinion on this matter and announce the Group's vote in favour. Yes to Calabrian health care, and not only Calabrian health care, which provides services that meet the needs and rights of citizens; yes to a meritocratic health care, far from political divides; yes to a national health service of professionals who can finally operate in a system intended to cure the sick, rather than in that in which they have been forced so far, in which the highest quality standards have always been pursued for the real purpose of interest: that of the care of the political clientele. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u173	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 4.30 p.m., as already announced, with the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the next European Council. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 13.37 p.m. and resumed at 16.33 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u174	The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 20 and 21 June 2019 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the next European Council is of particular importance, since it is the first to take place and open the new European legislature. Immediately after the elections for the European Parliament, with the counterparts of the other Member States, we have already met - as I recall - on Tuesday 28 May in Brussels, at an informal working dinner, to make some initial assessments of the outcome of the European vote and to seek a consensus on the method by which to reach rapid, hopefully consensual decisions on the appointments of the institutional summits of the European Union. It is precisely the appointment of the summits of the European institutions that will be the central theme of this forthcoming European Council. It has been under discussion in Europe for the past few weeks at intergovernmental and also parliamentary level between the European Parliament's political groups. It is of fundamental importance that such a confrontation emerges from the European institutions a signal to the citizens about the ability to take into account the demand for change that emerged from the vote of 26 May throughout the continent, although expressed in different forms. The European Union must be able to decide not only by whom, but also in what direction and these decisions must be balanced and effective. They must be respected more than ever in this parliamentary term, with a Parliament that promises to be so fragmented, the criteria of geographical, political balance, the size of the Member States and gender. It is also essential that the institutional summits of the Union be decided in accordance with a package logic, which allows us to have and maintain an overall view of the distribution of the various positions and therefore in accordance with a logic of balance. The summits of the European institutions must also live up to the challenges ahead of us in the next five years: growth, work, social equity, security, migration, respect for the environment and sustainable development. European solutions to these challenges are improcrastinable and must be inspired by a new perspective, in which growth is no longer considered as antithetical with respect to stability and solidarity is protected as well as responsibility. As for the Italian expectation for the new European Commission, as I have already pointed out in various fora, Italy - I say this in full transparency - wishes for itself, in line with its role in the history and future of Europe, a leading economic portfolio. European nominations are accompanied by a decision on the strategic agenda at the European Council, which contains, at each start of the European legislature, policy lines in which all 28 Member States are recognised. The strategic agenda almost inevitably combines ambition and realism in a Union with such a broad membership. It is therefore of fundamental importance, bearing in mind the challenges I mentioned earlier (growth, work, security and the environment), that the agenda be accompanied, over the next five years, by European decisions and policies that are up to the situation and that will be implemented in a timely manner. With this in mind, I consider the following objectives to be priority, which I summarize: a multi-level European governance of migration based on solidarity, on fair sharing of responsibilities between Member States, on cooperation with countries of origin and transit, including European humanitarian corridors for those who are entitled to asylum, as well as on a strong European policy on return and of constant and incisive contrast to the illegal trafficking of human beings. Another point: a strong progress of the Union in completing the pillar of social rights, in defining and implementing European initiatives and instruments to protect the unemployed, especially young people, so as to pursue and implement European minimum wage forms and to continue the fight against social exclusion and poverty. Again: a eurozone budget which also has a stabilisation function, an essential objective for the soundness of the eurozone in the global scenario, which, as we know, is characterised by turbulence and a persistent customs war that has a negative impact on the economic situation in Europe. It is also a concrete impetus to encourage productive public investment, particularly in the Member States most in need, and to remedy unjustified tax competition between Member States. Furthermore, a Union capable of promoting environmental policies in support of the circular economy and of encouraging the objective of climate neutrality to be achieved by 2050, without this affecting European unity on an essential objective for all European citizens today and tomorrow. Another point is the adequate protection of both agricultural products (labelling and traceability) and geographical indications, as a prerequisite for a European Union trade policy - you know that this is an exclusive competence of the Union - which is respectful of citizens, whether consumers or entrepreneurs. Furthermore, the further improvement of European legislative and administrative cooperation in combating international terrorism and organised crime, against which we can never afford to lower our guard. Finally, a truly effective European Union foreign policy, capable of defining positions and, if necessary, taking measures with effective and appropriate decisions to the role in the global world, to which the European Union cannot and must not give up. Once the Strategic Agenda has been adopted in the European Council, the ability to ensure its consistent and timely implementation will be decisive. I hope, in this context, that the European Parliament will play a central role as a democratic stimulus for the European Commission and the Member States to act in line with their commitments at the very beginning of the parliamentary term. The European Council is also called upon to assess the progress of the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework. In this respect, I would like to define our clear and coherent position. As President of the Council of the country's fifth net contributor to the Union's budget, I will in fact represent the expectation that the timing of the negotiations will not be at the expense of its quality. It is essential to work with a genuine European spirit on the progress of the negotiations towards a timely conclusion, but without shortcuts that can lead to a seven-year budget that is inadequate to what is at stake. The Union must have a multi-annual financial framework rooted in the present, but projected into the future, which therefore builds on past experience and represents an effective guarantee of effective policies both for the new priorities facing it (migration, security, investment and research) and for the more traditional policies, where we must be determined to defend the appropriate levels of intervention. I am talking, for example, about cohesion, but also about the issue - for us strategically - of the common agricultural policy, both of which are essential for our citizens and, in general, for Europeans, especially for consumers and entrepreneurs. I said that these issues are essential for growth and to ensure employment even in the most disadvantaged areas of the continent and that they suffer the most from the negative effects of the global challenge. It is also desirable, with a view to a multiannual budget that is truly up to the challenge, that we be able to look more ambitiously at new own resources, for the benefit of the European taxpayer, ensuring greater added value of EU expenditure, without burdening national budgets with it. Equally projected towards a future for Europe, to be prepared effectively and far-sightedly, is the theme of climate change. The European Council will call on the Council and the Commission to continue to work towards the transition to climate neutrality, on the basis of the measures already agreed to reach the 2030 reduction target, and towards the timely adoption by 2020 of a long-term European Union strategy. The European Council also looks at the Climate Action Summit, organised by the UN Secretary-General in September, as a significant stage for global action on climate change and the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement. We expect to be able to work together with the other Member States on an ambitious, global role for the European Union. It is essential, for example, that we move forward at European level with determination towards climate neutrality by 2050, a goal which the seven countries of the South of the European Union, including ours, in the declaration signed at Valletta in Malta on 14 June last, have hoped to be achieved taking account of national specificities. The environmental challenge cannot be entrusted to the initiative of the individual countries, it is not a question that can be resolved in the perspective of a national dimension: it requires a joint effort, a European effort, indeed a global effort and the European Union cannot fail to play a leading role in this issue, also in view of the forthcoming international events, as the already mentioned UN summit scheduled for September. European rules and the principle of responsibility for citizens and generations must be respected on the environment. I also had the opportunity to represent him from the address to the Chambers, when I asked, in June 2018, for confidence: if we want to give back to government action a wider horizon, we must show ourselves capable of raising our eyes, striving to pursue the real needs of citizens in a medium and long-term perspective as well; otherwise politics loses sight of the principle of responsibility that requires action (as the philosopher Jonas recommended) not only by looking at the immediate need, which risks turning into a mere profit, but also by designing the society that we want to leave to our children, to our grandchildren. The European Council will also address, on external relations, the situation between Russia and Ukraine, with specific reference to the recent Russian passport measures in the eastern regions of Ukraine, in particular Donetsk and Lugansk, the continuing detention by Russia of Ukrainian seamen arrested at the Kerch Strait incident on 25 November 2018, and the hope that negotiations for the implementation of Minsk agreements will resume. On these issues, it remains our priority, of course, to work together with our European partners, to encourage relaxation, to bring the debate back to the negotiating table, also taking advantage of the new impetus given to Ukrainian policy by the new President, Mr Zelens'kyj. I would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm that Italy intends to pursue an approach that respects the European issue, but that Italy remains convinced, at the same time, that sanctions are not an end in itself, but an instrument aimed at starting to resolve the Ukrainian crisis. The European Council will also express, in the wake of the March conclusions, an invitation to raise awareness and to strengthen the resilience of our democracies with regard to misinformation, encouraging the European Commission to assess the implementation by online platforms of the commitments made in this regard. With this in mind, a coordinated European effort remains essential for Italy, taking into account the complex, plural nature of the problem; disinformation from a multiplicity of subjects, both state and non-state, it requires a multidimensional and wide-ranging strategic approach, including at European level a long-term investment in the training of young people, a constant dialogue with private providers, without, of course, neglecting the delicate profiles of the necessary guarantee of freedom of information, which is an essential foundation of our democratic systems. The European Council will also welcome the ongoing work at Community level on a coordinated response to hybrid threats. In this respect, we share the need to step up European coordination on cyber attacks with European partners. The Italian approach is inspired by the promotion of cooperative platforms and aims to combine the security and protection needs of citizens with respect for democracy and freedom of the Network. We also believe that we need to strengthen resilience, namely the ability to equip ourselves, at national and European level, with adequate prevention and resistance tools in relation to possible cyberattacks, but also the ability to deter such attacks. However, bearing in mind that the problem of imputation, i.e. the identification of the responsible parties and then the possibility to proceed to impose sanctions, remains a problem of great complexity and requires a well-considered approach. The European Council will also refer to the General Affairs Council's conclusions on enlargement. This is a process that Italy traditionally supports, because we believe that this stimulus is important to promote peace, stability, prosperity and security in our neighbourhood, in the geostrategic interest not only of Italy, but of the entire continent. We therefore consider it essential to preserve credibility and offer a perspective for the enlargement process, both by supporting further progress by Serbia and Montenegro in the accession negotiations, and by working to ensure that by October of this year - a prospect that opened up just yesterday during the General Affairs Council - there can be a decision in favour of opening accession negotiations with Albania and the Republic of North Macedonia. A rapid start to the accession negotiations with Tirana and Skopje would give a signal of strong European attention to the whole region, giving fresh impetus to the European perspective of those two countries and thus helping to avoid drifting away from the path of progressive regional integration and stability. I would like to mention another issue which is brought to the attention of the European Council at the request of Cyprus. The issue of Turkish drilling activities in the exclusive economic zone of Cyprus will be discussed in the European Council and included in the conclusions. In this respect, we monitor with the utmost attention recent developments in energy issues in the Eastern Mediterranean and we share the concern about Turkey's announcement to undertake activities that could be detrimental to the legitimate expectations of the Republic of Cyprus to exercise sovereign rights over natural resources in the so-called exclusive economic zone, in line with the rules of international law and European Union rules. We believe that the exploitation of energy resources in the eastern Mediterranean can become, by reason of dispute, an extraordinary opportunity for cooperation, and also a factor for regional stabilisation. However, we must work to achieve this goal. Finally, the European Council will examine the latest developments in the Brexit dossier, in the light of recent political events in the United Kingdom and the latest European Commission communication on emergency measures in the case of Brexit without agreement. As you well know, on the Italian side on 20 May the so-called Brexit decree-law was converted into law, which provides, in case of no deal, measures to secure the rights of citizens, financial services and air transport. Last week we already gathered at Palazzo Chigi the so-called " task force Brexit" to do a cutting to the measures of preparation for the no deal. Italy remains committed to an orderly Brexit through a withdrawal agreement and to build a profound, I would say ambitious, future relationship with the United Kingdom after leaving the European Union. However, in the light of recent developments in London, it is important that citizens, businesses and all stakeholders in Brexit use these months of extension - you know that the next date is 31 October 2019 - to prepare themselves for any scenario, including the very unwelcome one, of an agreementless exit. I first recalled the principle of responsibility, referring to climate change. Decision-making and action taking full account of this principle between institutions and citizens and between generations is also a prerequisite for relations with Europe in the economic and financial spheres. I am referring in particular to the Commission's recommendation and report, which could lead to infringement proceedings against Italy, but also to the completion of economic and monetary union. First of all, this last subject, which will be at the centre of a Eurosummit on Friday 21 June, which we believe should take non-divisive decisions, with an appropriate political and technical basis, which is the responsibility of the Eurogroup and the Ecofin Council to ensure. We do not believe that there is still the right basis for this and we do not think it appropriate for the Heads of State or Government to decide without an adequate technical basis and a consensual approach on measures that could be very incisive, even in a medium to long-term perspective. You know the themes: the reform of the Treaty on the European Stability Mechanism, the so-called ESM, the European Deposit Guarantee Scheme, the so-called EDIS, the eurozone budget. The December 2018 Agreement provided for the subsequent revisions to the ESM Treaty to be prepared by June 2019. The Eurogroup of 13 June reached a broad consensus on a draft text of the revised Treaty, on the basis of which, in the second part of the year, the second level documents provided for by the Treaty will be defined. According to the agreement reached, at the request, in particular, of Italy and Germany, the procedures for national ratifications will be initiated only when all the documentation has been agreed and finalized, in the next month of December. I recall very quickly that the most important issues are the revision of the so-called precautionary credit lines; the relationship and division of roles between the Commission and the ESM; various debt-related issues, which also concern the modification of voting arrangements, from the so-called dual lemb to the single lemb, of the collective action clauses, which are already present in the current Treaty; I also recall the establishment of the joint support mechanism for the single resolution fund for banks, the so-called common backstop. All these issues are the subject of long-standing work. However, I would like to update you on the fact that this morning, in the transition to the House of Deputies, a resolution has been tabled by the majority forces, which has found the support of the undersigned on behalf of the entire Government. I believe that the suggestion from the other branch of Parliament is valuable and useful to be collected. I would like to summarise the passage which seems to me to be most significant with regard to the right approach to be pursued in this direction. A joint assessment of the three elements of the package for the deepening of economic and monetary union (EDIS, Eurobudget and ESM) is therefore required, in this case, Parliament reserves the right to express the final assessment only to the outcome of the detailed definition of all the various components of the package, favouring the so-called package approach, which can allow a political sharing of all the measures concerned, according to a logic of overall balance. I feel I am marrying this approach, as a government, if it were confirmed in this House too, because I do indeed believe that continuing only in a single direction, by delaying the overall assessments, is by no means a wise, prudent and recommendable way of proceeding. We must have an overall view of this path, because only this will then lead us to express a political assessment, which will meet the needs of our citizens and national interests. With regard to the issue of infringement proceedings, I have been able to say, even publicly, that we are all determined to avoid it, because we believe that it is in the interests of our country to defend its reasons and avoid a procedure, which would still be penalising, but we are also convinced of our economic policy and it is on this basis, on the basis of this conviction, that we intend to maintain a constructive dialogue with the European Union. I am clearly representing our determination and willingness to all my institutional partners and therefore to the institutional summits of the European Union and my counterparts. Italy intends to respect the European rules, but this cannot prevent us, as a founding country and third economy of the Continent, from becoming bearers of a much more incisive reflection than in the past, on how to adapt the rules themselves, so that the European Union is equipped to face systemic and global financial crises, in order to ensure an effective balance between stability and growth and between reduction and sharing of risks. These are complementary and not contradictory binomials, as the advocates of a procedural approach continue to support, which forced Europe to criticise ex post its own decisions and measures, which are the European citizens who have paid or risked, even in the future, to pay. This means a very high price, not only for the social and economic cohesion of wholes. But, if you will allow me, also because of the credibility of the European project itself, that even those in favour of austerity all the way claim, at least in words, to have at heart. This evening with Minister Tria we are in the mood to bring a document, a text, a draft adjustment, an update, in order to certify the positive monitoring of the public accounts, of the financial framework, and to have also a further official document, deliberated by the Council of Ministers, to bring to the appropriate fora, therefore for the interlocution with the European Commission and to be able to demonstrate that it is our forecasts and our estimates that have the upper hand on other estimates, made by others, that at this moment do not correspond to the real cash flows. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u176	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u177	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the master's degree course "The language of law" of the University of Pavia, who carry out a period of formation in the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u178	I declare open the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u179	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in recent days the worrying isolation of Italy in Europe has become more apparent to everyone, laying the foundations for its continued existence, and this is due both to the choices made by Italian voters on 26 May - sovereign choices on which this branch of Parliament has nothing to say - and to the policies of the Government. The harvest from the Government in Europe, after a year of foreign and European economic policy characterized by cacophony, aggression and impotence, is embarrassing. I am not referring so much to the possible infringement procedure, but to a litmus test that we have already seen a few days ago. All eurozone Member States, no one excluded, shared the Commission's analysis of this issue and invited Italy to take the necessary measures. Looking ahead it is paradoxical and worrying that this season of Italian sovereignism, created with the legitimate impulse to make Italy count more in Europe, risks making it count less. This must concern all of us, regardless of political preferences: 42 of the 73 Italian MEPs will sit on the opposition benches; the Italian Government in the Council appears on some rather isolated issues and the Italian Commissioner, who will certainly be of high caliber, the more he will reflect a sovereignist approach, the less he will succeed in having a majority in the Commission that is prefigured, which a Commissioner needs even in matters within his competence. As I conclude, I look to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, with respect and sympathy - even in the etymological sense of the term sympathy - and virtually entirely share your communications today. I hope that they represent the position of the Government: in any case, the European Council gives at least peace, because only you will be present in that assembly representing Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I agree in particular with what you have told us about productive public investment, unjustified tax competition between Member States, and finally - I am pleased to mention this in Parliament - about the central role that you have reiterated for the European Parliament today. In your speech in Davos, you spoke about the Europe of the people, not the peoples, and I very much liked that: you stressed that you would like a Europe like the government of the people in Italy. Of course, you are aware that this means more the role of the European Parliament and less veto power than the Member States in the Council and, therefore, less sovereignism. Thank you, President. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u180	Senator Masini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u181	President Conte, you will shortly be representing the Government at the next European Council. It is an appointment that does not present itself under the best wishes. I do not envy his task, as I often do not envy his nervous system, constantly and deliberately under stress by some representatives of his majority. In fact, when it comes to delicate and complex situations, such as the one that we might have to face, more than the overflow, we need wisdom, concreteness and common sense. All right, the common European home may sometimes be tight, but it is good to be aware that we need that common roof, given the global challenges ahead. However, in order to be under that roof and to be reasonably asking for exasperating technicalities to be blunted and adjusted with renewed vision, it is necessary to ensure that the door of the house is not closed, with a beautiful sign written on it "I cannot enter": mind well, I said "I cannot enter" and "You cannot enter," because to that isolation you are condemning us and not the others. But that ego is also a us (we all here, we Italians) and it is a us that becomes a you when you represent us in this way. Let me say that you represent us badly, because in a country where infrastructures serve as lifeblood one day yes and one day no say you do not have clear ideas on this issue. You misrepresent us because Italy is lagging behind in the challenge of climate change, when instead we should act with a leading role without any hesitation, with a careful look at research, renewable sources, the energy efficiency of production processes; bad because, in my opinion, economic and foreign policy concepts are expressed with extreme lightness that damage the markets and therefore the savings, investments, mortgages of the Italians. Indeed, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is a real need to reform European rules in the economic field, but not while the game is in progress. We are dealing with an infringement procedure, it would be the first time for Italy and no one here hopes that it will have a follow-up, and what answer are you giving? A former minister of his government who currently plays a fundamental institutional role has declared that the debt to 200 percent of GDP is sustainable; but if each Italian already pays only for the interests of the current debt 2.50 euros per day, considering that figure for three hundred sixty-five days a year for 60 million Italians, I put a hand on the heart and so sustainable does not seem to me. Then there is the story of mini-BOTs. To me personally it did not seem the best time to launch this further provocation, however I would like to understand what nature they have, whether it is money or debt securities. Given that in any case these are new expenditures put into cash and therefore again public debt, the main question is whether we can afford to increase the debt not so much or not only for European sanctions, but also because it would be a demonstration of our inability to control public finance, with the consequent effect of a nice jump to the top of the spread and with good peace of those who have a mortgage to pay. That being said, if it were cash, it would be prohibited, given that monetary policy is the responsibility of the ECB; If, however, it is a matter of credit, since no one can be forced to bear another's debt, it should be accepted by the creditor, but it is an operation that seems to me quite complex: who, in fact, would want to be paid with promises rather than with money that sounds? It will be said that the state could force its acceptance, but apart from the rather devastating signal of such a war economy imposition, those who cash the mini-BOT would run immediately to the bank to make it change in real euros and at that time would have a bitter surprise because the bank would pay him the cost of risk, which I do not know how much it could cost (it will depend on the circumstances), but the creditor will certainly undergo a nice shearing. Moreover, all the taxpayers of the country will also be sheared, because the reduction of the value of the loot - I prefer to call it loot more than mini-BOT - will be reflected in a similar reduction in the value of the real BOTs, impoverishing from night to day millions of Italian savers who have entrusted the fruits of their sacrifices to the State in the illusion that they were safe. Mr Conte, trust in Europe is no longer just a stylistic clause, but it must be felt as a powerful shield to nationalist and anti-democratic pressures. Europe must change, yes, but in order to face the challenges facing us, such as the reform of welfare and the response to the fourth industrial revolution, the future test of a renewed and ambitious European reformism to which no one wants to remain outside. This is why we need a real and credible recipe in the eyes of Italians and Europeans and suited to our pockets. The government's line must therefore change. I will end with a quote from Lichtenberg: we cannot say whether the situation will be better when it has changed, but we can say that in order to become better it must change. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u182	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u183	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in your communications you have spoken of a number of subjects which are frankly, as far as I am concerned, totally acceptable. I am not President of the Council and I have ten minutes available, but you were right to give a general picture, so you spoke about climate (also in view of the UN summit), the problems of protecting agricultural products, fake news, hybrid threats, cyber attacks and the risks to citizens and their security; you spoke about the enlargement of the European Union to the Baltic States, Russia, Ukraine, the energy issues between Turkey and Cyprus, many other issues such as Brexit that are at our heart. Mr President, I am a member of the opposition, but I have never felt that when the President of the Council comes to talk about the European Council, we have to disagree with everything he says if we are in opposition. I would not like to speak on these issues because I believe that most of Parliament, and not only I, is about what you have said, also because, since it is an old school, I think that governments are passing away, but the broad lines of foreign and European policy should at least remain. When we speak, for example, of enlargement to the Balkans - you specifically mentioned this - this is a typical Italian story. We have been the defenders of the Balkan countries that must enter Europe and we have also done so for our own sake: the Balkans, which are stable and included in the European Union, are a source of stability and not a source of problems of instability for Italy as well. President, I wish you well. On the Brexit we find ourselves because we want to continue to have with the United Kingdom, whatever the end of this affair, a privileged relationship. We feel like Europeans like them; they are Europeans and can stay outside the European Union, but we cannot mitigate the historical relationships that have been synthesized by so many British people in Italy and by so many Italians in the United Kingdom. There are essentially two points I would like to make. First of all, there is the theme you have mentioned here. He spoke of the demand for change raised by the European electorate. In this regard, we must be honest and frank. The question of change when the people always vote is there, but we do not make the rhetoric of change about the outcome of the European vote because the European vote has shown, at least as far as the local sovereigns are concerned, that they think exactly the opposite way in Europe. In fact, apart from Macron's position, which is outside the traditional popular and socialist parties, we have a popular, socialist and liberal majority that has basically consolidated in these European elections. I do not like the word sovereign and, if I had to use it in any way, I would use the expression European sovereignty. I feel that I am a European sovereignist, but not an Italian sovereignist, because I believe that all the countries of Europe should go in a scattered order, in the world in which we live, simply irrelevant. However, the outcome of the European elections was clear: the big political families found themselves the winners of this challenge and, unfortunately, the Italian presence in its majority expressions - I am talking about those who won the elections: the League and the Movimento 5 Stars who took 51% at the polls - is outside the political families. They are essentially irrelevant; they find it difficult to find European connections. Frankly, the League has found it very worrying: going to a parliamentary group with the alternative for Germany is really disturbing, considering also what they are, where they come from and what they express. Even the Movimento 5 Stars seems to me to sail a little 'in the dark because it has no European interlocutors. This does not strengthen, but weakens the Italian position. We in the opposition - I think I can speak on behalf of all because there are no distinctions - think and hope that it will bring home as much as possible with regard to negotiation, including with regard to our European Commissioner. We want a European Commissioner who not only wants to be chosen from among authoritative people, but who has a heavy portfolio, who can say his own in the context of the European Government. President. - I have many questions, however, since I do not see an Italy that weighs more in Europe. Among other things, I see an Italy that does not participate in many European tables. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This idea that, when there are sectoral meetings, the main ministers do not go quite singular. If it had happened in the past, we'd have been torn apart. Today they regularly do not go, as if it were irrelevant. These are matters such as immigration and all the issues that concern us personally. Therefore, on the one hand there is desertion and, on the other hand, Italy's feather weight at European level. The interlocutors that we have chosen are those that at the concrete level of the policies that we are asking for are more opposed than Italy. I mean, we find more assonance - I say paradoxically - with Germany and France than we find with Hungary and Hungary-like countries. Then there's someone here who, when he drives us, I don't know where he's going, or I know. I know you're one thing, others are another. We all know that because we are alphabetized, but frankly this is also a matter of concern. And why is it a matter of concern? President Monti, mischievously - I share the malice - said that at least you are here. Yes, I understand, but we are also weak for this: one part of the government wants the mini-BOTs, another part the flat tax, one the minimum wage and another the tax wedge, another measure of social inclusion: you understand absolutely nothing. You don't understand who the government is or how many governments there are. You said yesterday: let's make a contiguous maneuver. Well, let's make a contian maneuver, since the President of the Council is one and he's Count. I say this to you: make a contian maneuver, but agree, because - and I end - we all know what an infringement procedure means. Do you know what that means? That whoever goes to rule in the coming years will have a piece of sovereignty that is taken from him: he can go to rule Di Maio, Salvini, anyone, but this will be a constant problem. If we open an infringement procedure we will have a subtraction of sovereignty: we will not depend solely on ourselves because there will be someone who will control us even more closely; nothing but national sovereignism! It is clear, then, that we are all opposed to this procedure being opened, but, at the same time, we cannot divide between those who want to raise taxes and those who want to lower them: we are all to lower them, in theory, but we are all also to see, if we are serious people, the economic and financial compatibility of the maneuvers that we are going to propose, if not it is simply a mockery behind the Italians. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]] To conclude, I want to say one thing: the infringement procedure is very dangerous and to avoid it there must be a clear line of government, unless someone actually pretends to show his muscles because he has a different objective in terms, for example, of elections and the advance of the electoral data and wants the confrontation with Europe to pre-constitute the conditions for an escape from reality and go to elections. It is clear that this would be a maneuver so discovered that it would be denounced because it was made on the shoulders of the Italians, which would lead to the infringement procedure for which it would be completely irresponsible even for those who approve it. Finally, I hope that no one in this House will play a dangerous game. I am pleased that Salvini has gone to the United States, I am pleased that he consolidates traditional relations with American friends: in my political DNA there is Europeanism and Atlanticism; if there had not been Atlanticism there would have been no Europeanism because they were two concepts linked in the post-war period and until today. I hope everyone understands, however, that the Trump administration's game, as well as the Russian game - which is exactly parallel - is to use Europeans to divide Europeans. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]] And woe if we lend ourselves to this petty game, because weakening the house where we are would only bring misfortunes for all Italians. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u184	Senator Pittella is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u185	Mr President, in fact, among the many issues facing the European Council, there are two which are particularly important in my opinion and in our view. The first is what you discussed at the beginning of your speech, namely the question of appointments, which is not an unclean exercise. It is an important activity for a country, in particular for Italy, which in recent years has been able to count on the Governor of the European Central Bank, who has done so well to our country, Europe and the eurozone, the High Representative for Foreign Policy and Security and the President of the European Parliament. We start from this legacy and a respected government should have the objective of achieving these results. You spoke of a major economic commissioner. Well, how do you intend to achieve this objective, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, or other more ambitious ones that we would think the Government should achieve? How? With what alliances? Through what preparatory activities? Is there a position of the Italian Government negotiating the election of the President of the European Commission? Because it is clear that by becoming architects or protagonists of the choice of the President of the European Commission, we could have more negotiating space for summit positions. What is our preference? Do we want to defend the principle of the candidate President of the European Commission or do we want to go beyond the candidates that have been presented by large political families? If we want to make a speech with the forces that matter, those that have the majority of the European perimeter in Europe, then, Prime Minister, you should talk to the Italian national leaders about these forces: who represents the people, the socialists and the European liberals in Italy. This is if you want to make critical mass and bring a positive result for the country on the front of the nominations. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are willing to discuss why when there is the interest of the country, it is to it that we point. If he made a phone call to Secretary Zingaretti, he worked with the president of the European Socialist Party and with the other socialist leaders to help Italy, because there is the interest of our country at stake. The second question, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, concerns what you have called an all-inclusive approach. You have also used very technical terms, obviously correct, of the European budget, of the deposit guarantee and of the fund saves States. I would say that more generally we will be discussing the economic policy line that will have to take place over the next five years and here the speech is linked to the infringement procedure. Does Italy want to rely on the definition of a new policy that is not just austerity? It cannot then be compared with the European Commission and the European institutions with the threat of muscle tests to break through the roofs and eliminate all stakes. It must go with a responsible line that combines public health with three major objectives, the first of which is to finance a European plan on work and growth through other instruments, not to be the further overtaking of public debt or deficit. Eurobonds, financial transaction tax, carbon tax and other instruments that finance a European work plan can be made at European level. Secondly, we can make a new policy for immigration and asylum seekers, overcoming Dublin and with strong cooperation with African countries. The third objective is a new season of citizenship rights in Europe and social rights for workers. A government that wants to do these things would be listening and could be heard and heard. On the other hand, if we go there and say that we do not care about anything, that we want to "break through" because we want to make the flat tax, we rightly want to sterilize VAT and increase the debt by 60 billion, we are going to go on a dangerous slope for Italy, irrelevant to the political lines and balances that will be achieved in Europe and very damaging to our children. We're gonna hold this line with all our strength. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u186	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u187	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to congratulate you, because I have seen that in this year you have managed to acquire a not indifferent ability, in the sense of making such a general picture on many issues, and to carefully avoid, if not taking them a lot of the way, the fundamental issues, which perhaps should have been the real subject of the debate and debate here in this House. You see, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have perhaps dealt in less than two lines with the issue of the threat of infringement procedure for excessive debt, but you know perfectly well that this is a very serious and very critical situation for us. Among other things, I say this to you and I also say this to the members of the Government, I believe - and I am looking at President Monti - that this would be the first time in the history of the European Union. Now, it is clear that we consider this hypothesis of excessive debt procedure to be absolutely disproportionate, even from a technical point of view, and it is therefore clear to everyone that this is a very political position on the part of the European Commission, following what has been not only the attitude, but also the position that we as a country and its government have taken forward in this way. In fact, what happened? It happened that, day after day, a sort of continuous gymnastics was put in place, that of the game on the rise and in some way also of provocation. Do we also want to remember what happened in December, Mr President-in-Office of the Council? This is what happened: there too, there were proclamations and proclamations on the overflow and in the end he gave in, playing the game of 2.04 instead of 2.4. His government, which speaks so much about change, has finally continued to act, beyond the rhetoric of external communication and propaganda, as all governments have a little 'attested, that is, going to ask for some flexibility without ever seriously questioning the rules, while this is the fundamental problem, President Conte. I said that we believe that this procedure is not only disproportionate but absolutely wrong. I would also add that we must go there seriously. On this we build alliances: on how we question the policies of rigour and the rules that have so far governed Europe under the banner of rigour and that certainly have not produced - as Dragons said in recent days - a benefit for the peoples and I am not just talking about our country. This applies not only to Italy, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Making this reasoning and really articulating a program to discuss those rules means building alliances and not being isolated: building alliances. After all this history, all this rhetoric, all this propaganda ("so much I do the flat tax, so much I do this, so much I do this other"), you now, President Conte, have come to tell us that we will see and do on the MES. But in the meantime you have signed the agreement on the European Stability Mechanism, which we consider dangerous for our country. We should have much more modesty and build not only generic alliances, but, above all, alliances for overcoming those rules, which are also marked by precise proposals. We've gone crazy on this one. It is not that we do not agree that you go and say or that Salvini goes to say about flat tax because there are no covers: we do not agree because it is wrong. If we have to put ourselves in the lead to make a tax operation, we have to give strength to progressivity, reduce taxes to those in this country who have always paid them with a direct levy and put progressiveness back into the system, not cause other problems. In addition to what Mr Conte has said, which we share, and to building alliances to tell Europe that we must regain a leading role in the fight against climate change, we must go there and say that all green investment, innovation, sustainability and mitigation and adaptation plans must stay out of the rules of stability, in the golden rule. On this we must build alliances, without going to bend two minutes after the proclamations, because the policies of the rigour and injustice of Europe that have created problems are overcome not by provocations, but by building alliances to change those rules, in the interests not only of Italy, but of Europe. [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and Senator Cucca.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u188	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u189	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in addition to your kindness and kindness, we would have liked you to show us your true face today. Who are you, Dr. Jekyll, the Europeanist, or Mr. Hide, the sovereignist? You see, it is very difficult for us to follow all your economic illusions, and then imagine, as far as your foreign policy is concerned. You are rejecting the international treaties on the TAV, because you do not want to do it, but fortunately the Piedmontese are thinking about it; you are stalling on the TAP and you are signing even a memorandum with China to strengthen its presence in Italy and Europe in exchange for some oranges. Try to reassure Washington, which introduces duties that damage our exporting companies to the US, and at the same time wink at the Russians, calling for the elimination of sanctions. In short, President Conte, this is a Babel that risks sinking the credibility of our country in the international chessboard. Someone had wisely suggested putting the photo of Matteo Renzi on the bedside tables; we suggest that you also put that of Mario Draghi, the President of the ECB, perhaps even with a halo, since, once again, with his initiatives supports the savings of Italians, so that they are not dried up by speculations not of other European countries, but of free markets. President Conte, who are you with? With Trump or with the Italian Draghi? We have no doubt who to stay with, despite we paid a very high price in 2011. We have shouted loudly that this European Union must return to putting the human person and his needs at the centre. Faced with its government, however, which had guaranteed a GDP of 1.5% in 2019, and then saw it fall to 0.3, and which deficit not to eliminate poverty or to relaunch investment and employment, but to give an income to just over 600,000 people, leaving in dismay the over 4,000,000 fellow citizens that you have deceived, because this you have done, remains very difficult, President Conte, defending its Government. In Europe, even your sovereign allies, starting from Orbán, no longer believe you, and indeed they are the strictest censors of your policies. President Conte, we're isolated. Let me tell you that you are even more isolated today, with this plastic representation of the ministers sitting next to you. You have raised hopes and dreams and today, as in the protagonists of García Márquez's masterpiece, sunk in solitude. We want to remain optimistic, because we are convinced that the feeling of solidarity between its members will prevail in Europe: let us be clear, however, not because we are too old to fail, but only because the spirit of the founding fathers must return. President Conte, we have no prejudice in dealing with new financial instruments, but we do not venture into mine fields that the markets, as you are conceiving them, can interpret as an escamotage for Italexit. If public debt payments are to be accelerated, certification will be facilitated first of all. We are also open to the exploitation of new digital technologies, perhaps thinking of a tax cryptocurrency that is managed with the blockchain system (debate from which we do not subtract). President Conte, I began by quoting an Anglo-Saxon author and, to conclude, I mention an Italian one that our young people and students, to whom all our encouragement goes, are facing with maturity. I'm talking about Leonardo Sciascia, who, as you well know, has divided the people you've met in your life into five categories. Our hope is that you belong to the category of men, those who face failure have the courage and dignity to take note of it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u190	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u191	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are concerned and determined at the same time. We are concerned that you come to this House, unfortunately, with representatives of the Commission sitting next to you - I am referring to those who were there before and those who have remained - an expression of only one of the two government forces. However, it happens that these are the ministers who, at least in the newspapers, are considered to be the most in the balance. We are concerned because tomorrow you represent not only your Government, but our Italy and so we would like us all to behave, especially at this moment. You represent not only your Government, which is unfortunately divided into the perspectives, but also our Italy, all the more so at this time when the European Council will have to address strategic issues of perspective, such as those you have mentioned and certainly what the Strategic Agenda is. The things he said about the Strategic Agenda are largely shared by us. The Strategic Agenda commits our country for the coming years, perhaps even for the coming decades, because it is Europe's policy agenda that we would like to see. The European Council will face tomorrow the multiannual financial framework which, as such, commits this legislature, whatever its duration, and also the next of our Parliament and therefore, of course, more governments and our country. Even what you, Mr Conte, said about the multiannual framework is largely shared by us, for example with regard to the common agricultural policy, tax harmonization, intervention to avoid tax competition and - all the more so - intervention in the field of socialism, businesses and their protection against global unfair competition. You, moreover, as a third important topic you mentioned two aspects that, instead, are not strategic, but decisive for the survival of our country. They are not strategic because they concern, for example, the subject of appointments. We also partially agree on this, because we believe, also on the basis of the unfortunately failed experience of the previous Government, that it is absolutely necessary to focus on a major economic portfolio, possibly exclusive to the European Commission. This is partly because we would like to add that the governance of the European Central Bank is equally important for Italy - I would say especially for Italy. In previous years we have been able to enjoy the presence of Governor Draghi, we have been able to enjoy or should have enjoyed the Presidency of the European Parliament, we should have enjoyed the importance of Commissioner Mogherini. Only one of these three positions has been to protect our country, that is the governor of the European Central Bank, which we need today; we certainly cannot claim it, but I believe that the European Commissioner's portfolio is equally important in the nomination package and we are asking you to pay attention to that. Finally, you spoke about the infringement procedure. He spoke about it in the end, almost out of the bag, telling us things that do not convince us at all and we must tell him, saying that tonight, therefore after the parliamentary debate, you will gather to respond to the very punctual remarks of the Commission, which are also endorsed by the other Member States of the European Union. He answers without answering. Here is the painful point: you go to Europe without responding to the country and to Parliament on what economic measures we are facing to revive growth first and not only - certainly also - to prevent it from continuing to increase public debt. He didn't tell us anything about the Economic and Financial Document, because it was aseptic. The debate took place in the election campaign, you did not tell us anything in this Parliament and when you say something outside this House, you and your ministers say different things among you, including today Minister Tria, who said different things than what other members of the government say. On this point there is a need for clarity, determination, another economic policy - and we are asking you for this - which really points to growth and development, which really points to the reduction of taxes possible and pronounced as the incremental flat tax that we have proposed, which essentially aims to unlock Italy from stagnation and to avoid the recession that unfortunately we are afraid of in the coming months. As you can see, our intervention is constructive and responsible and we would have expected you, too, in your speech, to address the whole of Parliament and not just the forces of the majority, which, among other things, express contradictory positions, precisely because you will tomorrow represent not this Government, which I do not know how many days it has, but Italy, to which we care very much. We are also willing to contribute to Europe - and I am referring to Senator Pittella's intervention - in relation to the Group, because if the two majority groups do not have a real home in Europe, the Brothers of Italy Group is part of the historical Group of the right of government in Europe and in the West, that is, the Group of Conservatives and Reformists, which did not happen to meet last weekend in Naples, to underline the importance of our Group's membership of the European Conservative and Reformist Group, which is the historical family of the Western Right. We hope that we can work together. We must work because - and I repeat this in this Parliament, and I am also addressing the majority forces in particular - the election campaign is over, it is certainly over for us who have won it, in the sense that we have increased our votes considerably, and I hope that it is over for the majority's forces as well. Then, if there is another early election campaign, Parliament will of course decide, and especially the President of the Republic in a few weeks' time, but at this time it is important to go to Europe with the awareness of having the support of Parliament and the country. We therefore ask you to make a further effort to get out of a self-referential Government, which is making water from all sides, to interpret to the full - and I believe that you are able to do so, because you have demonstrated its competence - the need for Italy to face this decisive moment with its head on the European Council, in order to escape the caudine forks of the infringement procedure and, above all, to give a turning point to Italian and European economic policy. We're here. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u192	He's enlisted to speak Senator Nannicini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u193	Mr President, the next Council of the European Union will inaugurate a new season of the Community institutions, where Europe will be called upon to make fundamental choices for its future, which is also ours. Today we were hoping to begin to understand what role Italy wants and can play this season. The government and the majority continue to say that they want to change Europe, but they continue not to say how and especially with whom: by mini-BOT shots or avoiding the infringement procedure, which is not avoided by saying that we want to avoid it, but by giving up unrealizable electoral promises? Dealing with finding common solutions to common problems or making unilateral choices for mere short-term electoral gain? By allying with those who want to strengthen the Community method, for example in fiscal and migration policy, or with those who only want an intergovernmental Europe? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am telling you honestly: today in your European task you have said many things that can be shared, from sustainable development to growth policies, unemployment insurance and digital security. But then we read all the newspapers and see statements by the new majority shareholder of his majority saying things incompatible with that task; we see statements by the former majority shareholder saying things that are still different and as many incompatible. We do not need tasks or spending lists to change Europe, we need a strong mandate on a clear line to explain to Italians and European partners. And of this strong mandate and this clear line, unfortunately, we do not even see the shadow yet. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The events of these days give us a photograph of your contradictions. The President of the ECB Draghi, as happened during the great recession, helps with his choices and strengthens Europe. Trump attacks Draghi because, like Putin and others, he wants a weak Europe; by the way, he wants a weak Europe and a strong euro: on the other hand, consistency is not the best of the sovereignists on any side of the Atlantic. But who is Italy with: with Draghi and the strengthening of the European institutions or with Trump? We need clear words on this, because the credit of the European Central Bank is not to be part of a trade war by improperly governing the exchange rate. The merit of the European Central Bank is to act forcefully as a European institution that strengthens Europe and its institutions, managing in a clear and isolated way from national selfishness and ideologism of any colour its mandate on the inflation target. This is the strength of that choice that makes Europe stronger. The same should apply to fiscal policy. Europe and also Italy, with its huge public debt, need a fiscal union to complete the monetary union and a common budget also financed by European securities issues and managed with Community logic. However, in order to achieve this goal, if Italy wants to play this game, we must be ready to give in something and rebuild confidence with the European countries ready to take this step. The appointments of the next few days and the alliances that we will build to arrive at those appointments will not be an independent variable compared to these choices. Look, we don't like a rigid and ideological version of austerity either. In the last parliamentary term we tried to overcome that logic at the initiative of the government chaired by Matteo Renzi, promoting also clauses of flexibility negotiated between individual countries and the European Union. Even in the homeland, someone raised the stereotype of Italy in love with deficit spending, but that battle for greater flexibility served Europe, not only Italy. But Italy got there with nothing to be ashamed of, because before asking for those clauses, our country had started an effort of structural reforms, which you are interrupting; it had ringed a record sequence of primary leftovers and halved infringement procedures. That was the method to follow, a method you have abandoned you do not understand to do what and above all you do not understand with whom, because the allies you have chosen in Europe simply do not want to have anything to share with you. So, how to change and who are left with two big question marks that will make Italy more isolated and weaker in Europe. Today, those who have a heart for the national interest and interest of Italians, have at heart a change of policy that puts us back at the center of this season and makes Europe stronger, because with a weaker Europe Italy will pay the most expensive price. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u194	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u195	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard fascinating historical reconstructions in the speeches of the opposition, all focused on the short - for now - space of our experience as a government. I would like to take advantage of this vocation to economic history to expand a little bit the analysis space. I would like us to go back, when everything we are talking about began, in 1991, when the Commission's offices published a very interesting study, entitled 'A market, a currency'. The fundamental thesis of that study was that with a single currency the states belonging to the Economic and Monetary Union would no longer experience external debt crises. In other words, if the Germans had lent money to the Greeks then perhaps they would not have wanted it back: I do not know what the illustrious economists, authors of that study, imagined at the time. On the other hand, we have had imbalances and, as Mr Molinari reminded us today in the House, we must not hide behind a finger: the absence of certain instruments of economic policy, such as the flexibility of nominal exchange rates, expanded them and then had to manage them. How? The path of denial of problems is always the harbinger of bigger problems. We were faced with an integrated economic, monetary and financial market without having a single supervision, with segmented supervision; we were faced with crises and, in a hurry, we had to set up instruments of so-called stability. I would therefore like to focus on one of these, the ESM, which we have talked so much about today. The MES was not a great success: it was a thing in which our country put 60 billion euros (and then maybe we also talk about where it found them and how), without even having a position on the board, on the board of this body, and without, however, having any serious prospect to benefit from it. The reform of the mechanism must be followed carefully, because it is precisely this: do we create a mechanism that we could possibly benefit from or create a closed mechanism, which excludes us? The fact that the ESM was not a great success and that approval had been particularly hasty also had consequences for our order. They told me in this august institution, of which officials are our guide and historical memory, the events that led to Law No. 234 of 2012. In particular, Article 5, which lays down a specific and particular obligation of information for the monetary and financial treaties, was somewhat affected by the sad events of this ESM, which perhaps, within that Parliament, some, even of the current opposition, had experienced as an excessively hasty passage, where there would have been a need for an extra investigation. Allow me, therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to thank you for the fact that you, in accordance with this rule and in complete consistency with that principle of centrality of Parliament which you stated from the first day in this Chamber that you wanted to respect, have come to tell us that this technical deepening will take place. Twenty years after 1991, on 16 November 2011, a lucky astral conjunction made happen, on that faux day - or unfortunate, depending on the point of view - for our country, two things: the decree of the President of the Republic, published in Official Journal No 269, which appointed President of the Council a current colleague of mine (even then colleague as economist), and the publication of Regulation No 1176 of the Parliament and of the Council of the European Union, which established the macro-economic surveillance framework. These two events are somewhat contradictory because, while a Prime Minister was being appointed to apply austerity fiercely, on the basis of the sole criterion of public debt, the Union told us that the macroeconomic surveillance framework must take into account a more diverse and multifaceted set of economic indicators to assess a country's health. It must take into account private debt, external debt, credit developments and the unemployment rate. That is what Europe is asking and asking us to do, namely to take these variables into account as well. It must be understood, then, that in the Treaties in which Italy is entering and which is being joined, this broad and multifaceted framework is being taken into account. Let me tell you something: Italy has a public debt problem and we can also understand where it comes from. It arises, for example, from a massive attack on one's income, which has obviously made it much more difficult to support public finances. But if we look at other indicators, such as the private debt indicator, as indicated by the European Commission in its macroeconomic surveillance framework, do you know how many countries in the eurozone would be in infringement situations, that is, beyond the limit? There would be 10 countries out of 19: Austria, Spain, Finland, France, Portugal, Belgium, Ireland, the Netherlands, Cyprus and Luxembourg. All the virtuous countries except one, namely Germany, would be in breach. So when it comes to putting conditionality on the aid that we want to give to countries, we try to look at a broad picture of indicators and we do not just choose those that penalise us, as you expressed, in a specific hope, exactly in this House. Following that experience, therefore, Parliament's involvement has become a rule, which can be deepened here. For example, one could reason on how to involve the parliamentary committees, and this can be done, because the Senate Rules allow it: Article 31 also allows for meeting in secret sitting and thus allows the documents to be examined in early stages of the negotiations. The Rules of Procedure allow a lot of things, I see and I know that there is a will in this respect and we are therefore working together to implement this process of democratic involvement. It was mentioned earlier that ministers did not go to the thematic European Councils; but ministers went, went back and did not tell Parliament what had happened, so it was not that democracy and participation benefited so much. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] What we are asking of Europe is a balanced assessment of the health of our economy. I have often heard of the attack that President Trump would be conducting, this evil ogre who wants a weak European Union and a strong euro. Of course, wanting the opposite, that is, wanting a weak euro and a strong European Union, is a good thing for Germany, but it is not in itself much more coherent and, above all, more toxic to the world economy. See that Trump's attack, if you want to analyze it, is explained in a book written in 2012 by a certain provincial professor, who noticed that the United States occasionally tires of being the ultimate buyer of the world economy and gets nervous when there is a country that wants to overrule with unfair monetary policies and therefore wants to exercise a hegemony on trade; it happened to Japan, it is happening to China and the next one you know who is and unfortunately is our ally. That is the problem: it is not that Trump is bad and good Dragons, but unfortunately, to keep together the pieces of this building, or change the rules of economic policy and give more space to budgetary policy - which is what we are asking for - or, continuing to push on monetary leverage, you must necessarily live with a euro that is too weak that causes imbalances at the global macroeconomic level. Mr Boccia spoke today of the fact that he wanted a social Europe and Draghi told us that he wanted 2% inflation, but he printed money and could not get it. What does this mean? That the goals that Draghi wants, if he really wants to achieve them, he will only be able to achieve them with the policies that we are proposing, that is, resuscitating growth and demand, because in the end prices respond to the law of supply and demand. It's not by cutting everything that you grow prices. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] If we want a Europe that is not just an economic expression - to paraphrase an illustrious European - but that makes sense, we must also prepare ourselves in the dialogue with Europe to fundamentally change the rules. It has been said here that the infringement procedure leads to a subtraction of sovereignty. I would like to say to my colleague that he said not to worry because in the coming years he certainly will not have to exercise sovereignty. Instead, we should be grateful because with the attention we give to the ESM in a century, when they return to power, Italy will not be trapped in irrational and completely destructive treaties, not so much for our country as for the entire European project. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u196	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u197	Mr President, Mr Conte, ladies and gentlemen, at the European Council meeting on 20 and 21 June, important issues for the future of the Union are on the agenda. At this meeting, our country will again present itself without a Minister for European Affairs. Of course, Mr Conte, you have held the delegations for yourself, but given the vastness of the matters covered by the Dicastery, I believe that you cannot make up for the interim of the President of the Council, unless the journalistic reconstructions are true and the de facto Premier is a different person than you. We do not want to think this, but it is certain that we cannot afford to neglect the presence in Europe, especially at such a delicate time when Italy seems to be completely isolated and with the scary - or the boulder - of a possible infringement procedure, a condition that our country - I repeat - just cannot afford. The new multiannual financial framework must deal with the current resources and, above all, close negotiations are under way for the choice of the new members of the Commission. Italy responds to all this without expressing even a competent interlocutor in this matter, thus leaving the country at the mercy of foreign Chancellors who are declared hostile to us. You see, President Conte, the isolation to which our country is condemned is also caused by its uncertain management of international relations. We all remember when he said that the European Union was at swan song and that everything would change after the European elections. Well, President, the elections have been and not only the Eurosceptic parties have not gained any specific weight within the new Parliament but the political realities have grown particularly harsh in the judgments regarding this Government, forces that will be a majority and that will therefore decide also the future of our country. The legislative initiatives adopted in recent months have shown their ineffectiveness in terms of boosting the economy and consumption. You have produced deficit measures, without a medium and long-term strategy, which have led to a significant deterioration in public finances, with the risk in the coming months of seeing a corrective manoeuvre that would inevitably lead to an increase in the tax burden, when instead it was necessary to reverse the priorities and put first the reduction of taxes, flat tax and investments, in order to revive the economy and create real jobs, facilitating recruitment with a cut in the tax wedge. This is the only way to create dignity for work and workers, not by measures that make work less and less attractive. We must be competitive again on European markets too, if we do not want to fall into a spiral of recession. Italy risks being subjected to an infringement procedure, which means blocking funds, so less money to grow our country. With regard to appointments, having no role of responsibility means not being able to weigh Italy's priorities in relation to the decisions that will be taken in the new multiannual financial framework. The UK's exit from the EU, according to the European Commission's estimates, will result in a reduction in the EU's annual budget of between EUR 10 billion and EUR 12 billion per year, corresponding to around 10% of the EU's annual budget. This means that more financial efforts could be required from the 27 governments of the Member States and certainly a reduction on the various chapters of the multiannual framework. This significant reduction is perhaps the main challenge for the EU's future budget because, despite the contraction in resources, adequate funding will have to be ensured, both for the Union's traditional policies, such as cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy, which absorb about 70% of the current budget, both for the priorities that have emerged in recent years and which need more and more resources. I am referring to policies to defend borders against migratory phenomena and, above all, to security in an anti-terrorist way. In a recent meeting with Europol, for example, we have been told that there is very little representation of our fellow citizens in the top roles and there have been strong concerns about the limited funds. I shall end my speech, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, by asking for a serious awareness and responsibility, because the risk of an increasingly marginalized Italy is real. In a Europe that certainly needs to be reformed, Italy as a founding country cannot and must not remain on the bench and be a mere observer if it wants to compete in a global world made up of great public and private powers increasingly supranational. We hope then that that swan (the European Union), that this Government (you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council) would like to hear sing perhaps for the last time, can instead be reborn stronger than ever and become a phoenix Arab and that Italy does not remain a nasty duckling. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u198	He's enlisted to speak Senator Di Micco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u199	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, on 20 and 21 June the Heads of State and Government of the Member States will address a number of issues of substantial importance for the future of the European Union, and there are several important issues, starting with the definition of the new structure of the European institutions, especially as regards the adoption of the new strategic agenda of the Union for the next five years and the appointments of the future institutional cycle. This is a crucial point, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Italy, as a founding country and among the biggest contributors to the EU budget, will have to play a central role in determining the balance that will lead to the appointment of the new President of the European Commission and the assignment of positions as European Commissioner. The Government is called to build the broadest possible consensus among European partners in support of the nominations that will be made by Italy, ensuring that the Italian presence at the institutional summits of the Union is adapted to the political weight of our country. The Council's agenda will also include the common agricultural policy, cohesion policies and economic policy; it will also return to the issue of climate change, with a view to the September climate action summit, and it will discuss the conclusions on country-specific recommendations in the framework of the European Semester and the management of migration flows. They are all of strategic importance for our country, starting with the common agricultural policy. Despite an important fall in the prices of the agricultural sector as a result of macroeconomic factors, geopolitical tensions, an increasingly competitive global market and competition from third countries that are not always fair, the forecasts for the future common agricultural policy envisage a substantial reduction in both direct payments and allocations from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development: it is madness, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if we think that about one third of the income of our farmers is supported by these instruments. We believe that there is still room to limit the effects of the cuts planned in this traditional sector of the European budget, but this possibility cannot be without a Europe of solidarity that is capable, through the maintenance of adequate financial resources, of ensuring a fair income for farmers, of taking measures to support the competitiveness of the sector, the management of risks related to climate change and respect for the environment, taking into account the fundamental contribution of the common agricultural policy to climate and environmental issues, in the light of the sustainable development objectives set out in the Agenda 2013 and the Paris Agreement. In the same way, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, every effort must be made to limit the impact of cuts on cohesion policies on national territory by reconsidering the criteria for allocating funds, which must certainly take account of gross domestic product per capita, but cannot be separated from factors such as unemployment, especially youth unemployment, so that a legislative and financial framework can be reached as closely as possible in the interests of our country. It will therefore be the task of the Government, when defining the long-term budget of the Union, to work towards preserving the financing measures of traditional policies, especially towards the agri-food sector, one of the pillars of our economy, which must be guaranteed a perspective of support and development also in view of the central role that agricultural policies play in the challenges of global food security and climate change, as well as in strengthening economic and social convergence within the Union. Mr President, with regard to economic policy, the global economic slowdown undoubtedly calls for a European-ranking response to courageous reforms which, in particular, stimulate domestic demand and boost growth through increased investment. To address the issues of employment, growth, competitiveness, technological innovation and inclusion, we need a Europe that supports cohesion and convergence, which combats inequalities and significant differences between Member States, which pursues the achievement of social rights, equal opportunities and labour market equity, which promotes policies to support income and fight poverty, in order to improve the quality of life and the working conditions of citizens. We are sure that the new balances within the European Commission will allow the Government to push more effectively for the adoption of truly expansive economic policies that can stimulate growth, protect businesses (with particular regard to small and medium-sized enterprises that are the main pillar of the Italian productive fabric), and to cope with the global economic contraction. On the other hand, this was the direction of the government of change in the long negotiations with the European Commission to reach the 2.04 percent threshold of the deficit-GDP ratio, a result that allowed us to implement moderately expansionary policies to revive the economy and adopt social justice measures. We have been able to accompany with a minimum of economic support those living in poverty towards a prospect of reintegration into the labour market, while at the same time putting resources into the real economy to stimulate domestic demand. With the so-called 100 quota we have allowed so many workers to retire at a fairer age, freeing up jobs for younger people. We have returned a minimum of justice to the scams of the banks, which will finally get a refreshment. In view of the growth and recovery of the economy, the action of the Government of change has put in place an important investment plan at regional and municipal level. With the plan to protect Italy we invested 11 billion to secure hydrogeological our country. With the approval of the unblocking works will finally start the works for more than 600 important public works. The Government, therefore, is doing everything possible to improve the life of Italians and give a strong boost to economic recovery and growth. Mr President, for this reason we are sure that government action will be even more determined, also in order to prevent the start of an infringement procedure for excessive debt, in achieving the objective of debt reduction and approximation to balance of budgets by focusing on investment, environmental and energy conversion and growth, without sacrificing social justice and security on the ground, in a framework of progressive reduction of tax pressure. In order to accelerate the growth of our country, however, it is necessary to support Europe in order to soon come to a reform of the parameters of stability and to accept our request to decompute public investments from the calculation of the deficit, in order to allow, even to countries that must pursue the restructuring of the debt, to invest in growth by relaunching the economy in order to get out of the recessive spiral. Mr President, in relation to the management of migratory flows, there is no doubt that Europe has become aware of the fact that this is a problem of continental importance. Italy has done and will continue to do its part, but all the member countries are called to assume their share of responsibility in the face of a diaspora of epochal scope that will lead in the coming years millions of people to move to our continent. A truly supportive and responsible Europe cannot fail to work towards the revision of the Treaty of Dublin and the fair and compulsory distribution of the quotas of migrants who find on the Italian coasts the main port of disembarkation of the migratory routes. Finally, Mr President, and I will conclude, this European Council will also deal with climate change that is affecting our planet. The fight against climate change through the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the conversion of energy supply to renewable sources, energy efficiency and the creation of circular economy models is no longer a long-term objective. Although the European Union is making important progress in the environmental field, the climate change emergency must make us set even more ambitious targets. With this spirit, Italy will have to promote, on our continent, policies that accelerate the processes aimed at the realization of an economy that is finally prosperous, modern, competitive and, above all, climate neutral - as you well said - because we can deliver to future generations a cleaner world. It is, therefore, a great deal of work that awaits you, Mr Conte, but we are sure that, strong in the legitimacy that is given to you by the confidence that this Parliament puts in its action, it will be able to bring it to completion in the interests of Italy and all Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u200	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a letter has been sent to the Presidency in which Senator Christian Solinas has announced his resignation from the Senate following the election as President of the Regional Council of Sardinia. Since the resignation was based on incompatibility, pursuant to Article 122 of the Constitution, the Assembly can only take note of it. The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities shall be authorised to convene immediately for the identification of the successor Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u202	I communicate to the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Patuanelli and Romeo, No 2, Senator Bernini and other Senators, No 3, Senator Ciriani and other Senators, No 4, Senator De Petris and other Senators, and No 5, Senator Marcucci and other Senators, whose texts are distributed. I call on the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Conte, to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u203	Mr President, I rise to express the Government's opinion. With regard to motion for a resolution No 1, signed by Senators Patuanelli and Romeo, the Government gives a favourable opinion, while the opinion is opposed to the remaining motions for resolutions. I would like to take this opportunity to clarify just one point because, as has been pointed out in some speeches, I think there is a misunderstanding. The President of the Council, i.e. I, spoke as the subject of the statement by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 20 and 21 June 2019. Well, the issue of the infringement procedure is not the subject of the next European Council. However, in accordance with the principles of maximum transparency, fairness and fair cooperation with this House, I felt that I would use this opportunity to update, albeit quickly, what we are doing to prevent the infringement procedure. I repeat, however, that this issue is not part of the agenda for the next European Council. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u204	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u205	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u207	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the clarification just made by the President-in-Office of the Council does not detract from the fact that a debate on this issue was absolutely necessary in this House. I believe that everyone has expressed their views absolutely, and we reaffirm our beliefs. I must also say, Mr President, that precisely from the debate that has taken place there has emerged how it would have been necessary to highlight certain issues more clearly. For example, we have asked to build alliances and make proposals to overcome the policies of rigour: the government is also working on some of them, so it is all the more necessary to avoid provocations and disconcerted declarations, and on the contrary to put forward proposals such as those of the golden rules also in the area of green investments on climate change and the necessary blockage of the ESM, as we have said, that I believe will really help Italy. There is no need, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for provocations, for seriousness and for the construction of alliances. With regard to the reference you have made to the Economic Commissioner, I urge you not only to think about the Commissioner, that we all hope will be important for the competences, but also what the next President of the ECB will be, which I believe is equally important for our country. For all these reasons, we will certainly not be able to vote on the majority resolution and we confirm all the proposals contained in our resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u208	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u210	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group is fully aware of the difficult moment, of the strategic choices that will be taken tomorrow and also of the concomitant positions that the Government will have to express - as I read from an agency note - in the Council of Ministers this evening, where you will bring the budgetary adjustment. Brothers of Italy is aware of this, as a patriotic force that looks to the interests of the country and not to the momentary interests of the Government and its majority, and hopes that the members of the Government and the majority will do the same above all. Brothers of Italy, sharing some of the strategic perspectives you have expressed with regard to investment and the necessary changes on European rules, especially with regard to infrastructure, research, development and the need for Europe to look at growth, will abstain in the vote on the resolution proposed by the majority. We believe that the Government, already weak enough because of the contradictions expressed in the Assembly, because of the acclaimed absences and the statements expressed outside it, needs to make a stronger Italy appear. For these reasons, however, we believe that we support our proposals. We regret, however, that once again the Government, feeling self-referential, does not examine them (except sometimes copy them without recognizing their copyright). With our responsible attitude, convinced that the election campaign is over (and hoping that it is for the members of the Government), we reaffirm the principles presented in our resolution, which aims to give a strategic perspective to Europe, to the role of Italy within it and to revise the European rules. At the same time, however, Italy must, of course, do its homework well, starting with growth, development and investment. I greatly appreciated Professor Bagnai's speech, punctual in the reconstruction of the past, evasive in that of the present, even where he said that the Government is resuscitating growth and demand. It's been a year, growth is zero, demand and consumption is falling. Something doesn't work: if growth is zero and consumption decreases, we are stagnating, despite the government and the majority have been resuscitating growth and demand for a year. So, rather than talking about the past, we would be pleased that the lesson of the present of this year was taken by everyone with responsibility and all the more so by the government and the economic and productive ministers of the Government, because the situation - you say it among you every day more - is difficult, I would say dramatic, with 158 national crisis tables, which increase every day, with the increase of 30% of Cassa Integrazione, with the collapse of turnovers and orders of the industry, with the reduction of consumption, with all the strategic nodes that you have postponed to mid-July: Alitalia (which you have postponed once again), the rescue to the bank Carige, the decisions on the TAV (which also arrive on 15 July, when you have to send the letter to the European Commission). All this leads us to hope, President of the Count Council, that you first, who are fully aware of this, will not choose, tomorrow and in the coming days in Europe, the way to live. If the government chooses the way of the past to make a living, while Europe puts us under infringement and makes choices that concern the fundamental nodes of the European strategy and the composition of the organs of Europe (from Parliament to the European Central Bank, of course, and especially the Presidency of the European Commission and the members of the Commission itself), if the government addresses these strategic and vital nodes of the isolated country, divided and at the same time with the exclusively tactical objective of pulling to live, it puts at risk the survival of our country, of Italy. That is what matters most to us and I hope for you too. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u211	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u213	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, authoritative representatives of the Government, we have listened to the Government's communications with respect. You, President Conte, will represent tomorrow and tomorrow our country at a very important summit for your future. In fact we have not heard from you serious hypotheses and credible recipes; we have heard a report on the index of topics that will be dealt with, that will be important and that will be defined, but without understanding what our Government's proposals will be. You said that the central theme of the European Council will be appointments (of course), roles and positions. But we must remind ourselves, Mr President, that you have been the protagonists and the whole country how we arrive at this European Council. We arrive after an electoral campaign where the political forces of majority have tried to deceive the country and the voters with respect to the fact that everything would change, compared to the fact that the Commission would change its approach, that there would no longer be limits to the expenditure, that you could give realization to that will that some of its important ministers expressed in recent months, when they said, for example, that the spread their "fucked." These illusions generated in the country are the presentation that you have sent, officially and formally in the election campaign, to colleagues with whom you will have to confront. But that's not all there is. There is a year of government, a year of your activity, in which you showed yourselves last year - justified by institutional youth - with unrealizable proposals (with numbers then obviously modified) with the big voice, the chest outside and especially with the tail between the legs in returning to reality. You have presented yourself with the bad results that your government activity has brought to our country, with the fact that you have managed simultaneously to increase our public debt, to reduce employment and to lower - indeed, to annihilate - growth; but you have always done so by announcing great proclamations, such as the eradication of poverty in our country. In fact, you have created a welfare system, which does not cause growth or support the economy. You have blocked public and private investment, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. This is the way in which you think you are authoritative today, also because, when this Government was born, you announced that one of your goals was to count much more in Europe, so as to change the overall framework of governance of our continent and our institutions. I believe that this cannot happen and that the previous season is unrepeatable, in which Italy was worthyly represented in leading roles, which have determined the salvation of the public accounts of our country, with an incisive action, in agreement with our governments, those of centro-left, who have proudly obtained these results. You squeezed Trump's eyes. Between Trump and Draghi's policy, which today allowed the spread to fall, or between Europe and European interests, on the one hand, and China, on the other (which the 5 Star Movement supports in an unworthy and limitless way), on which side are you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council? I hope that it is, will and should stay with that of our country, Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Then there is the icing on the cake, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which is the infringement procedure. Today in his speeches he has heard clearly what it would mean for our country: we must have pragmatism, realism and capacity for alliance and proposal. These proposals, however, today we would have listened to them with respect to our country, which is founder and would have the authority to have a profound impact, but which, for its isolation choices, decided not to do so. We have seen an image in which you, Mr President, at one of the last summits, were isolated, on a staircase, away from all the others: that I fear is the photographer of the political situation in our country. The Democratic Party, with its two Groups in the Senate and the House, is not happy with this situation. We are saddened by the point where you led us and the fact that you have placed Italy in this situation of dramatic weakness and inability to affect. We are available, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if we have to get it back and revisit it. We intend to play our game, support our country in the European Parliament and do what you are not doing. You are not doing this with national policies, because you continue to deceive our country, you are not doing it because you are not able to make concrete proposals and assumptions because you have no credibility whatsoever. This year has led to the total zeroing of the credibility of our country and the government you represent. I believe that she must go with humility and determination to work in the interests of our country, she and above all her Vice Premier, who obviously do not answer her and every time they make a different proposal, who does not have the legs to run and that would put our country in further crisis. This dichotomy, this distance, this breakdown of your majority and this weakness of yours translate into the weakness of our country. We want to work in the interests of Italy and we are again available for this, even if we fear that you and your Government will not be able to represent us. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u214	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u215	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u216	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, after Mr Molinari's speech to the House this morning and that of my fellow Senator, Professor Bagnai, this afternoon, it is difficult to speak. It was two big surgeries, quite exhausting. I'll try to make an explanation of vote. Meanwhile, on behalf of the entire Lega Group, we wish you, Mr Conte, a good European Council and good negotiations. And that's the news already. The fact that there is finally a negotiation in this country, after last December, is the testimony that something has changed and that we are really facing a Government of change. In fact, until now we had seen, during the various European Councils, simply a rigorous silence dictated by the fact that we probably went to Europe to take orders and to carry out what the Franco-German axis wanted against Italy. Instead, we finally set up an arm wrestle. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Finally, the will to change is also seen by this kind of attitude. Of course, someone will then tell us that we are isolated, but - apart from everything to see - we are convinced that there are so many countries of the European Union that are looking at what is happening in Italy at the moment and that they hope that our country will be able to change the rules, because this would be a benefit for all of us and not just for us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups and Senator De Bertoldi]] Then maybe they won't let him see it, but we're convinced of it. In any case, even if we were isolated, it is better to be in this situation, rather than in a condition of subjection towards France and Germany, as has been the case in previous years. It has been said by minorities that the President of the Council must be on the side of the country. But we expect them too to be on the side of Italy, because sincerely, in the face of such an important, fundamental and historic match, and at such a delicate time for the whole of Europe, we should play the game together, rather than create divisions, as has been done and as we have heard in several speeches. I am also saying this because, if we want to divide ourselves - I say frankly - as a government we have given you several arguments; there are so many issues that we can discuss. On the subject of Europe, however, it would perhaps be more appropriate to concentrate and work in that direction, partly because from our point of view, and I say this with a bit of regret... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] The comments mean that you are listening to me and, therefore, we are absolutely happy that you will learn the lesson. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] FARAONE (PD). Thank you Romeo! [[Applause from the PD Group]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). You should also understand that this is an Italy designed with some kind of prejudice and then we will also explain why. In the meantime, we reiterate the content of the motion for a resolution to which I am one of the signatories, together with my colleague Mr Patuanelli, that we are about to vote and that we are going to vote in favour of it. We certainly ask for an adequate Italian presence at the institutional summits of the European Union and an Italian Commissioner with a portfolio of strategic interest. We ask for the courtesy to be at least consistent with the election result of 26 May. I think that this is absolutely important and fundamental, in accordance with the will of the people, which is often evoked here. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We also call for cuts in the common agricultural policy to be avoided, as agriculture is crucial for our country. The revival of investment should all agree with us, because we all, in words, have called for the idea that we absolutely must proceed with them. In order to do this, we are all aware that we must ensure that these investments are excluded from the accounts for the purposes of budgetary balance or deficit-to-GDP ratio. As far as climate conditions are concerned, we often hear in this House that greenhouse gases must be decarbonised and reduced. Mr Briziarielli often tells me that if Europe asks for this, then it must also give us the opportunity to make the necessary investments to achieve those objectives. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Otherwise, it is too convenient to insist on these issues without giving room for flexibility in this direction. Investment and space are needed to achieve those results. The European stability mechanism - defined in a simpler way as a fund saves States - was brilliantly explained by our colleague, Mr Bagnai. We do not go to approve changes that provide for conditions that penalize precisely those countries that most need to invest and grow. We do not create A-series countries and B-series countries or Europe of children and stepchildren: Europe must be one and the rules must apply to everyone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] That is the message that we must bring to Europe. Then, of course, we are not hiding, even if it is not the subject of the European Council - you said well, Mr President - that the issue of the infringement procedure certainly holds hold at national level, and someone has even highlighted the fact that it may have been used as a system and then begin to deal with other issues as well. Mr Molinari says well when he says that we absolutely must not be blackmailed; also because, if we go to negotiate, we must do so through constructive dialogue and we will certainly find a solution. But we must go with equal dignity, because Italy is a great country, it is a founding country of the European Union, it is the fifth taxpayer of the European Union and as such it must be respected. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] It is a country that must be respected and trusted, the same confidence that in reality - let's say - the same markets are granting us these days. To be clear, markets have absolutely not listened to the issue of infringement proceedings yes or no - these are all political issues - and they have understood that. In the end, if we go to see a comparison with the European institutions, the auctions of the Italian securities went great, because the demand has far exceeded the offer last week; the relative yields are down; the spread has been absolutely contained - we have reached the minimum compared to March last year - the interest on the debt is falling. We call for Europe to have the same confidence as the markets and it does not seem to ask absolutely who knows what. We simply ask ourselves to respect the reality that it is not - we say it to the members of minorities, but we also say it to Europe itself - the reality that we are drawing in recent days. Italy isn't as bad as you want to believe. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] No one says that it is in a beautiful situation, but meanwhile the Italian public debt, despite its size, is sustainable and its sustainability derives mainly from the fact that it is guaranteed by the savings of Italian families; the deficit is closer to 2.1 or 2.2% than to 2.4 as the Commission itself believes; the structural balance is stable in 2019 to 1.4%; there have been significant improvements - as Minister Tria told us - on the banking system; a balance of accounts has been achieved abroad; there are lower expenses (three billion) deriving from income of citizenship and quota one hundred and higher VAT revenues deriving from e-invoicing. [[Comments of Senator Margiotta]] Of course, we give credit to the person who introduced it, we have no problem. We are absolutely of the idea that we did not expect a greater take-up of this nature, but, as the combination of lower expenditure and higher revenue is structural, it certainly goes in the direction of compliance with the Stability Pact. And, therefore, we reiterate that we are not as bad as they want us to believe. We go to Europe, therefore, with this data, with this awareness and strength and not with the attitude always a little'shy and subjective that we have seen in recent years. Here I can think of what Indro Montanelli said at the time, namely that, when Europe arrived, the French would enter it by French, the Germans would enter it by Germans and the Italians would enter it by Europeans. And so in the end it was. Maybe it's time to stay in Europe without forgetting to be Italian. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] No more power transfers. On the contrary, let us take back that European spirit which was contained precisely in the Treaties of Rome, because this is the real objective for those who really want Europe and for those who love Europe. These are the indications which we give and which are contained in motion for a resolution No 1 on which we can only vote in favour. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u217	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u219	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr President, Italy is presenting itself to the European Council on 20 and 21 June in a much more problematic situation than the other partner countries, starting with the close application of the agenda that President Conte has presented to us. I am referring to the first game, the institutional balance and the subsequent roles that the third great country of Europe must have; the multi-annual finance framework, that is, the fact that we are going to discuss the next seven years of European programming without Britain and, therefore, with different quotas. My colleagues have already addressed in their speeches some of the other issues listed by President Conte, such as the climate issue and the European bodies. Although not listed - rightly as President Conte has represented - the role of our country is closely linked to the risk of infringement proceedings. The number of appointments depends on how much weight our country will have over the next five years of decisions. Think of the advantage that, in the absolute balance and fairness, has come from the decisions of President Draghi to the European Central Bank in recent years and that there has been for southern Europe, and therefore also for Italy. And I am talking about an advantage over a fair choice, not favoritism, and sensitivity: if you are leading the European institutions you know the whole European system and not just the interests of some. The mandate that we want to give to President Conte, despite an opposition position, is to avoid the isolation that we run for reasons of political risks coming from the majority model of this Government. We must avoid what can be marginalisation and maintain a strong contractual position. In this negotiation, in this definition of reports it is also a question of avoiding the infringement procedure, which means determining how the rules apply or, in any case, assessing how they are modified. So, it's a contingent situation. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are aware that Italy's condition has worsened over the past year. We are aware of the national political, social and economic situation of deficit and debt and progressive taxation no longer appropriate to the times. We are aware that you must be in balance between the state budget, deficit and debt, the country's economy that does not always equal the state budget (in fact, maybe it is in conflict with the state budget) and European rules. You have to reconcile this whole system. The issue is not only to negotiate with the European Union even in contempt of the rules. The theme is to assert a series of conditions that this country can represent. The public debt - as rightly highlighted in some interventions - must be compared with the private debt: if Italy has a high public debt, it is also a consequence of the low private debt. You must first have a plan of government, then come the confrontation. They are not commercial transactions, which could be mini-BOTs that create debt. Rather, allow me, President, a little notation. Today's newspapers and news reports talk about breaking up the pound, a new coin. This is a very serious matter, because in the future the currency will be essentially of that kind. But let us be careful: the currency not of the State but with private seigniorage is a return to feudalism. Let's be careful. It is perhaps an issue that the European Union - and it is closely linked to our assessments - must set itself out. Dear President, Forza Italia hopes that you can engage in maintaining the credibility of our country, the credibility of Italians, for Italians, and the credibility of European markets and partners. To be credible, we have to invest. The TAP does not have to do it because America wants it and the TAV does not have to do it because Europe wants it: we have to do it because they are in the national interest of Italy. That is the fundamental fact. Since you represent Italy beyond the border, and therefore you are no longer the President of the majority, but you are the President of all of us, we also oppose, Mr President, while voting against the motion for a resolution which the majority has tabled and which does not represent us, we wish you to treat the interests of the nation as best you can. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Laus. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u220	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u222	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, President Conte, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it is necessary to stress the importance of appointments on the European agenda for the next few days: a fundamental link for our country, for the role of our country in Europe and for the very role of the European Union. However, I believe that there is empirical evidence, factual, of the total inability that European economic governance has shown in recent years. The evidence is that Europe as a whole is the world's great economic ill at this time. We have the United States running on the one hand, China expanding on the other. It is certainly ours, the Old Continent, the one that suffers the most from the overall economic situation of its member countries. I believe we need a new approach to European and Member State economic policies. But first of all, even before we speak of a new economic approach, the field must be cleared of some hypocrisies. I refer to the fact that the European Commission considers the excessive debt procedure for 2018 to be justifiable. I do not care and I am not passionate about the normal political debate that then takes place on this issue: those who are in opposition today say that it is the fault of this Government if there is such a procedure, while those who today rule say that it is an inheritance. I don't care about that. I am interested to talk about the rigidity of cast iron beams that Europe is demonstrating on this procedure, when it has shown elastoplasty flexibility - as is used in engineering - compared to other situations in other Member States. I am thinking, for example, of the issue of France, which for nine consecutive years, from 2008 to 2016, exceeded the 3% limit in the deficit-to-GDP ratio. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I am thinking of what was until a few months ago the economic locomotive of the Continent, Germany, which has not respected and has systematically violated the rule that it would impose not to have a trade surplus of more than 6%. I am thinking of a Europe that calls for action on the part of the Member States, which also puts the social state at risk, especially for the weaker classes, and accepts, however, that there are seven countries within the European Union with at least an aggressive fiscal policy, as has been stated in a Commission within the European Union. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I quote: Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Belgium, Ireland, Malta, Cyprus and Hungary; Countries in which big giants, especially the web, can have advantage taxation, at the limit of the tax paradise. I do not believe that one can - on the one hand - tolerate the existence of this reality within the European Union and, on the other hand, ask for sacrifices from a country like Italy which is doing everything possible to get out of a very complicated economic situation, while keeping together, however, the needs of its social state addressed to the weakest. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Perhaps there is the hypocrisy of hypocrisies, namely the question of structural deficits, which is in relation to potential GDP. These are parameters that the European Commission itself considers difficult to identify; especially at times of great economic difficulty it is difficult to understand what would be the GDP of a country, net of the difficult economic situation and such a complex economic moment. So, also on this we play those European parameters that always become fundamental to evaluate the capabilities of a country and its investment possibilities. On the issue of potential GDP and structural deficit, we have already pointed out to Europe the desire to overcome abstruse definitions and we have done so in last year's DEF Change Note. For the first time a country takes a very clear position on this: this is not about cannonising Europe and saying that Europe has made everything wrong. Instead, it is a matter of taking note that some economic policies of austerity imposed could have a ratio - for the love of God, I do not want to enter into the merit of the Government that has more than all adhered to the demands of Europe, that is the one presided over by Senator Monti - but then did not produce the results Expected. Apart from the very questionable rules - such as the Fornero law, which we have radically dismantled with our budget maneuver [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] - the expected result was not there, because the debt-to-GDP ratio in our country in those years increased by more than 10 percentage points. So, on the one hand, austerity did not produce a reduction in debt and, on the other hand, of course, sacrifices were demanded from our country. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on several occasions you have mentioned something that I share with 100%: there can be no economic and financial stability untied by a country's social stability. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] We have a moral obligation for our citizens to intervene on the weakest, as we have done with the income of citizenship and with 100: we had a moral obligation and we have waited for it. On the other hand, we come to the agenda in the coming European events: the strengthening of economic and monetary union, which is being discussed in the next Eurosummit; the reform of the Treaty on the European Stability Mechanism (ESM); the creation of a euro area budgetary instrument and the strengthening of the banking union. As far as the ESM is concerned, we have said several times that a mechanism that conditions the access of a country to that fund to the fact that it is in order with those abstruse parameters that I mentioned earlier, unless the country itself is being policed, is the most wrong approach that can be taken to the problem. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Pazzaglini]] This means that we have not understood anything that European history has taught us in recent years. We therefore believe that the current draft reform should be subject to a new analysis, specifically by revising the criteria for Member States' access to the precautionary credit lines of the ESM. In this regard, we believe that the right emphasis should also be given to elements such as the level of private and not only public debt and the evolution of the consistency of banking suffering, which in Italy have been significantly reduced, even at the cost of enriching private foreign operators who, on the sale of the so-called non-performing loan (NPL), have built a multi-billion dollar speculative business. On the other hand, with regard to the eurozone's budget, we believe that it is essential to have a stabilisation instrument that can be used as an anti-cyclical instrument. The documents published in the aftermath of the Eurogroup on 13 June refer only to a balance sheet aimed at convergence and competitiveness. We would like to understand what kind of convergence we are talking about. If we think - for example - of the unemployment rate, we are interested in convergence towards acceptable unemployment limits in all countries. In fact, if we look at the European average, there is a decrease, but the scissors between the country with the highest unemployment and the country with the lowest unemployment in recent years have widened and, therefore, that is a convergence that interests us. If the eurozone budget serves to bring down unemployment levels, we will of course be the first to support this instrument. On strengthening the banking union, we believe that it is imperative not only for Italy, but for Europe as a whole, to complete the third pillar of the banking union, namely the common guarantee of deposits at European level. We cannot think of continuing to have the rigidity and the fulfilment of a single supervision, with a single set of rules for European banks, without also wanting to share the guarantee of bank deposits. I believe that Parliament, Mr President, has received a clear message. It is right to speak with Europe always, even when Europe asks us for wrong things or that we believe to be unfair. It is right to go to Europe to deal with and understand how European needs can be combined with those of our country's budget. It's not fair to do it with your hat in your hand, as it's been done too many times. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] It is right, instead, to go with your back straight to represent the needs of our country, with the strength of a Government that has a great majority and has understood that, only through change, you save not only Italy, but also Europe, in the sense that we want to maintain that it is that of the European community. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] What interests us in European discourse and reasoning is, in fact, the principle of community, so those who are worse must have help from those who are better. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u223	I inform you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has communicated that, in accordance with Article 19 of Legislative Decree No 533, the allocation of the seat rendered vacant in the Region of Sardinia following the resignation of Senator Christian Solinas, has found, in today's sitting, that the candidate who immediately follows the last of the elected in the progressive order of the list to which the aforementioned Senator belonged is Michelina Lunesu. I would like to thank the Assembly for the election and parliamentary immunity of this communication and I would like to welcome it to this House. [[Applause]] I would warn you that the 20-day deadline for any complaints will begin today with regard to the new proclamation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u224	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Patuanelli and Romeo. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I call on Senator Bernini and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 2 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 4 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). This concluded the communication of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u225	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-123.ana.u226	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 20 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.11 a.m.
