ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 3 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u3	I communicate that on December 4, 2019 the following bill was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 126 of 29 October 2019 on measures of extraordinary necessity and urgency in the recruitment of school staff and research and certification bodies for teachers (1633). I communicate that on 6 December 2019 the following bill was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 26 October 2019, n. 124, with urgent provisions in tax matters and for non-differentiable requirements" (1638).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u4	As already stated, the Conference of Leaders is convened at 3 p.m. today to change the timetable of work in the light of the draft budget which is still being discussed at the 5th Permanent Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u7	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business which has been announced over the past few days and which has now been confirmed. We should have dealt with the draft budget law from 3 December last, which is already several days ago. This has gone as we know and we are faced with a further postponement of the examination of the measure which makes us imagine, at the end of this week, its possible discussion in the ways that we will then see. Probably votes of confidence and anything else will not allow us to examine the amendments tabled. The Members of the Budget Committee are here in permanent sitting, stop and go; more stop than go, because it has never gone on, among the various referrals. The irrational attitude towards Parliament is extremely serious. We can say of the previous ones: we remember the maxi amendment of last year, illegible for the times and the modalities followed, as well as for its arrival at the last moment. This year we endured, and there was time for the exam. The government changed the majority, but the President of the Council remained the same. He could learn how to do it. There is a series of unknowns, because the debate has taken place totally expropriating Parliament and I am not just referring to the House, which it already promises to take or leave, since it is read in the newspapers and reported in the chronicles that there will be no third reading, and that means that the second will not be able to make any changes. We believe that the Senate is also injured, because at the meetings of the Budget Committee there will be packages of majority or government amendments to be approved. There is uncertainty about the world of agriculture and the events of duties. This government has managed to escape even the "Fanta": we are at record levels. Not only that: even if deferred and re-modulated differently, the taxes on plastic, which mainly affect the sale of water, a genre to which everyone refers, because water must be safeguarded, except then when people have to buy it. Added to the deferred and limed, but persevering, plastic and sugar taxes, there are also taxes on gasoline, and it is necessary that Italians know, because the excise duties on gasoline of 2021 are other deferred taxes put by the Government. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Therefore, if the President-in-Office accuses the oppositions of saying things that are not true, we have sinned only because we have limited the complaint to some taxes, because the one on petrol was not there yet and has been added. They say it's a cover. We therefore wish to express our dismay at Parliament's expropriation. Someone had to open Parliament up like a can of tuna and, instead, hibernated it like a fish stick, because it cannot move and can not speak. The Parliament of the Republic cannot be pronounced in any way [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] There is a negotiation, a majority suk, with writings, rewritings, modifications, announcements and interviews, twenty-four majority summits: this is the new way of governing the "new Italy," arrived in Parliament against the vices of the past, but the summits and all rites multiply. I must point out to the Presidency one procedural aspect: it appears to the Groups that Amendment 47.0.2001 has been tabled - I hope I have mentioned the exact number - which concerns - heard, heard - the reform of the Authority of the Privacy Supervisor. No legal measures can be included in the budget law: this changes a relevant Authority, just because the presumed majority fears that they do not have the President of a guarantee body, perhaps because some platform is afraid of the fines of the Privacy Supervisor. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Now I hope - and I also address the President from the Budget Commission, which I do not see in this House now - that this amendment will be deleted. That would be a very serious illegality. I say to my colleague Marcucci that - mindful of his example - we will appeal to the Constitutional Court against this disaster. And we expect you, with the same fervour as last year, to join us in demanding justice for Parliament, closed and silenced by the arrogance of the government. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSdaz groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u8	Senator Gasparri, as you know, at 3 p.m. the Conference of Leaders is convened, where your indications will of course be brought to the attention of the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u9	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Technical Institute of Technology (Giordani-Striano) in Naples, present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u10	I inform you that the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity has communicated that in today's sitting, pursuant to Article 19 of Legislative Decree No. 533, has declared that, following the resignation of Senator Donatella Tesei, has become vacant the seat in the single seat number 2 of the Umbria Region, in which the same senator has been elected with the majority system.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u13	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, as you will have seen, I have come to the sitting already in progress because it was blocked in the sitting of the Commissions 1st and 4th Joints. This has also prevented me from attending the work of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. I'd like you to stay on the record that I wasn't present at the meeting of the Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u14	Senator Augussori, I will inform the President and he will be put to the record. In the event, the League's Parent Company will present at the Conference of Leaders that, when several Commissions are convened, all Commissioners should be given the opportunity to attend those of which they are members. I suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 12.11 p.m. and resumed at 5.12 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u15	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday Piero Terracina died in Rome, one of the last survivors of the inhuman tragedy of the concentration camps. At the age of fifteen, he lost to Auschwitz the whole family: his sister Anna and his brothers Leo and Caesar, his mother Lidia and his father Giovanni, his uncle Amedeo and his grandfather Leo. Piero Terracina has left us a precious testimony of what was one of the greatest horrors of the twentieth century, providing throughout his life a fundamental contribution to make known the Holocaust to the new generations. "My memory" - said Piero Terracina - "is that thread that binds the past to the present and conditions the future: this is why it is necessary to remember the past, so that that past never has to return." Then add: In hell I've been there, it's called Auschwitz-Birkenau. In the awareness that the contribution given to the truth will remain forever with us and in the shared memory of the country, I wish to address a thought to all those who have known Piero Terracina: to friends, to the numerous associations promoted and animated by him, to the Jewish community of Rome and to the many young people who accompanied in the didactic visits to the places of horror. I therefore call on the House to observe one minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u18	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would also like to mention in a nutshell the figure of Piero Terracina. He died yesterday in Rome, at the age of ninety-one, one of the few survivors of Auschwitz. As you rightly recalled, this man was only fifteen years old when, in 1944, during the Jewish Passover, he was deported with all his family, first to Queen Coeli, then to a camp near Modena and finally to that of Auschwitz. Only last December the City Council of Campobasso had unanimously decided to confer honorary citizenship to Terracina and other survivors of the Shoah, including our dear Senator Liliana Segre. I believe that to remember this figure is not enough a few words that I will also express as a citizen and as a Member of Parliament on behalf of my Group, but we certainly have the moral duty, as parliamentarians, in this House, in this important and institutional place, to remember a figure like Piero Terracina. Only he returned to Italy from the concentration camps and was together with other figures who marked the history and tragedy that lived in the twentieth century, the tragedy of the Shoah. Among these people was Primo Levi. Here I think we should remember what he wrote, his books, what he remembered every day. Primo Levi warned against removing the memory bookmark from the Holocaust page. Well, that bookmark we never have to take off. And we must never take it away especially at this moment, a dark and difficult moment that we are living in society, not only in the Italian one, but in the whole world, where hatred seems to dominate over everything. I am also thinking of the days that have passed, when there has been controversy, and the evil one, that we have lived in some Municipal Councils, unfortunately also in my Province, on the stones of stumbling. Too many episodes of hatred, violence, racism and anti-Semitism. We're scared of this. In fact, I believe that these people, such as Terracina, Primo Levi and Senator Liliana Segre, who honors us with her presence in the Chamber, really represent a moment to remember. It is not only the pain of the Jewish community, but the pain of the whole country, of all Italy, because rightly these people represent a bulwark of memory. It's not just a great pain that we bring in. Terracina had something more, as the Jewish community of Rome always said. He represented the courage to want to remember, overcoming the pain of his exterminated family and of what he had seen and immediately in the hell of Auschwitz. Yet, this man continued to witness with his presence in schools, places, wherever, what had happened. I therefore believe that all the institutions must continue to remember and bear witness to what has happened every day, first of all with our example. I think this is perhaps one of the most important warnings we need to take with us. Above all, we must pass on the memory to make the country and the new generations understand what has happened every day. Primo Levi said "If understanding is impossible, knowing is necessary." I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that perhaps these are the best words to do our duty every day, even as parliamentarians, to the end. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u21	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I am deeply moved by the greeting that this House is giving to a great Italian. His life has been very precious. He was only fifteen years old when a deliter had him arrested, survived - the only one of his family - in the hell of the concentration camps and brought with him for years the fear that he would be asked why he, himself, had managed to return from Poland. At some point in his life, many years later, he had the strength to tell. We have a duty to thank the survivors for this further, and for nothing at all obvious, act of courage and we must hear it above all, that we have the honour of being able to call a colleague a person like Liliana Segre. The testimony of Piero Terracina has an extraordinary value, first of all from the historical point of view: together with the few who saved, it has allowed us to know in detail the industry of death wanted and realized by the Nazis, the banality of evil that has marked forever the course of the history of our continent. (17.24) (Following Grasso). When Piero Terracina described Auschwitz-Birkenau, he digged inside himself to offer the testimony of the little boy he was and how those events then marked his entire existence. One could feel - it happened to me to be present - the pain that caused him to go back with his memories, relive and tell the horror of the concentration camps. Yet he never stopped: he felt the moral obligation to put his own life and witness at the service of all of us, especially the younger ones. It is what he has done to the last, giving us an incomparable lesson of dignity and commitment, and this is undoubtedly his most important legacy. Those who had the privilege of competing with his account could not fail to cross the sweetness of his gaze. Those eyes had seen hell, but they had not bowed to it. While talking about the past, about a past that becomes ever more remote day after day and that inevitably loses its protagonists, Piero Terracina questioned himself and others about the present and, above all, about the future. In fact, he shared the thought that, rather than recriminating what could be done or saying then to prevent the Shoah, it was decidedly more important to teach to recognize the possible fruits of indifference, which is what leads then to similar tragedies. I remember a beautiful occasion when I had the honour of welcoming him to the Senate for a conference in which we spoke, precisely, about the sin of indifference. I think it is a fair and proper tribute to conclude this brief remembrance with the words he chose to finish his speech, which I would like to quote here: Then the Shoah teaches (in fact, I would say it imposes) to remember, but above all to do. It is not enough to go on a pilgrimage to Auschwitz. It is necessary to inquire and above all to know, and in order to know one must let oneself be questioned, without suppressing a healthy feeling of shame for a system that somehow belongs to us and from which we are not immunized at all. (...) To educate young people, and this is the task of the school, to the duty of acceptance and respect for minorities. Putting protection of people at the centre and not obsession with borders; making rescue and rescue the priority of national and European policies. That, I think, is what you could and should do. Now that Piero Terracina is no longer our task is to pass on his words, bring them into the present and into the future; making them every day a seed of hope. Thank you for everything, Piero, for the earth to be mild. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u24	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to recall the event that, looking at Piero Terracina's story, impressed me most. He dates back to the age of ten, when he was in elementary school, with the teacher, as he says: "I loved him." Let's think of a ten-year-old boy who meets the teacher, whom he loves, who says to him: Terracin, you stay out of it. At that point he asked, "Why?" The answer was: "Because you're a Jew." I was very shocked by the image of a ten-year-old boy who is immediately shocked by these phrases, which he may not understand. Then we think of the journey he made with his brothers, parents, grandparents and uncle to the concentration camp when he was fifteen, where he then left all his relatives. This must really make us understand his life as well. Terracina has never brought words of hatred, but only of remembrance so that immortal tragedies like this do not happen again. My colleague Liliana Segre, whom I greatly value, said she was afraid that afterward, without her (I wish her long life) and Terracina, the memory of the Holocaust will end. It is the duty of all of us to carry on the memory of what has happened in those terrible years. I took the journey of Memory by train to understand. It is a long journey to Auschwitz that takes you to see these areas and empty rooms, in the cold. The stories, seeing what's there, the hair, they make it clear. It seems almost impossible that man could do this. I want to give a sincere hug to the Bucci sisters who carry on this memory and also to Sami, Piero's friend, to remember that we are there and will always be there. It is our task to carry on the memory of this immense misfortune. I really hope that we, all together with this institution, will also be able to organize a memorial train. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u27	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, I too am speaking to commemorate the figure of Piero Terracina, on behalf of the whole Parliamentary Group, who today, in large part is not present, not out of disrespect, but because he is travelling to Brussels with our leader Giorgia Meloni. We express our deepest condolences for the disappearance of Piero Terracina, one of the last to bring in the eyes, in the mind and even on his skin the signs of a tragedy that has humiliated the whole of humanity. Inside Auschwitz-Birkenau, only he of the 8 members of his family will return to Italy, telling of the terrible abyss in which humanity had fallen. And to him it is eternal gratitude, the same that must go to those who daily, with their own witness, struggle so that that hell never returns again; real monuments that neither time nor human stupidity can ever scratch. But Terracina must also be thanked because it has moved us to reflect on the inconceivable horrors that human madness can come to us, an abyss against which its voice must echo even louder for us now that we can no longer listen to it, especially today that we are witnessing a revival of forms of anti-Semitism and hatred against Israel. We must ensure that the memory that Piero Terracina has transmitted to us is never lost and that his tenacity and pride can be an example for future generations, so that what happened in those years never happens again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u30	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would like to take up in this House the words spoken by Ruth Dureghello, President of the Jewish community of Rome, to commemorate Piero Terracina: He represented the courage to want to remember, overcoming the pain of his exterminated family and of what he saw and immediately in the hell of Auschwitz, so that everyone would know the horror of the Nazi extermination camps. Today we mourn a great man and our pain must be transformed into a force of will, so as not to allow the negationists to raise anti-Semitic hatred. We cannot afford the luxury of allowing this. Piero Terracina represented, with his life, the testimony against hatred, against Nazi hatred, against racist hatred. With his testimony of life he has given meaning to the life of all of us. Our thoughts and feelings are with Piero Terracina, with his courage and his testimony of life. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u33	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are all a little more alone: our collective memory has lost a tireless direct witness to what has been man's most serious abomination to man. The disappearance of Piero Terracina, who survived the extermination camps, is a terrible pain for all of us. Piero Terracina, like many of the survivors of that mad delusion that was Nazifascism, chose silence; then he began to speak, to tell. After the desecration of a Jewish cemetery (beware, colleagues, it happened also a few days ago, in the Jewish cemetery near Strasbourg), he decided that it was time to transmit the memory, without which a country and a community lose themselves, with the risk of falling into the darkest abysses. I was lucky enough to meet Piero Terracina and attend some of his testimonies in schools in the province. He was a good man, with a nice face and simple and kind ways; above all he did not hate, he knew that everything that he and millions of men - women and children like him - had lived on their skin - that number imprinted on his forearm, A5506 - was the child of hatred, of an unlimited hatred, mad. Moreover, I invite those who had not seen it last night on television, to watch "The great story" by Paolo Mieli, about the furies of the fuhrer: attention to historical courses and recourses. From the gear of an infernal machine to a precious and incomparable witness, his was a tireless educational function. We are grateful to him for everything he has transmitted to us and for how he has enriched us; the eyes of children and teachers when he did those interventions will remain in my memory forever. Attention, however, President and colleagues: do not continue in the witness work, stop telling that drama, in my opinion it would kill Piero Terracina a second time. We are all called not only not to forget that inhuman past, but to make it alive in memory, just as the late Piero Terracina did every day. Only then can we avoid new madness. We live in times of increasing denials, historical revisionisms, hooked crosses and yet symbols and hate characters all too often reappear in Europe and elsewhere in the world. Speeches full of hatred and contempt for Jews and other minorities, not only ethnic, are gaining more and more space in the political arenas and in the hearts and bellies of the people. We gather the testimony of love, tolerance and dialogue that Piero has left us and let us spread it everywhere, because only by safeguarding memory can we avoid the repetition of tragedies based on the denial of man. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u36	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group joins the mourning for the death of Piero Terracina and the commemoration of this great witness, unfortunately, of the Shoah. The testimony of the horrors of deportation to the camps of Nazism has characterized its whole existence, is precisely the legacy of his story, when he was just fifteen years old deported on a cattle car from Rome to Auschwitz; the legacy of his history, but also the history of the racial laws introduced in 1938 by the fascist regime. He loved to turn schools and tell the kids about when the Jews, at the behest of those laws, were fired from public jobs; he told of Italy's entry into the war against France and England; of September 8, 1943, in which Italy broke the coalition with Germany and signed the armistice with the United States and England, already landed in South Italy; and it was - as Norberto Bobbio wrote - for the lands of the North, from which I come, Italy of the three wars: the class one, the liberation one, but also - alas - the civil one. He recalled that after the persecution of the rights of the Jews the persecution of their own lives began, and the deportations began first in Italian prisons and then in German extermination camps. Above all, Terracina brought back from her memories of when there was a manhunt in Rome in 1943, with 1,024 deported Jews, including 200 children. Many hid and many were denounced. His family - as has already been mentioned in this House - was the only one who survived. We believe that these historical facts should be transmitted today with the additional wealth of details that witnesses such as Terracina have transmitted and entrusted us. We are convinced that they should not be exploited in any way, precisely because the horror of the real contents of that narrative is all the more vivid as the facts remain absolutely true, connected to the chronicle of what really happened, today become untouchable heritage of Italian history. The inexorable passing of time and the failure of the testimonies must not weaken in us the consciousness that the first value of a people and of the person must be what our Constitution entrusts us as freedom, freedom of thought, freedom of faith, without distinction of race and belonging. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u39	RICCIARDI (M5S). Number A5506: human existence reduced to a simple number, no history, no affection, no emotion; hell brought back to an aseptic number. With that number, Piero Terracina signed up until the last day. This is one of the most insane aspects of the Shoah tragedy: trying to erase from history a thousand-year-old culture, the lives of so many people, the daily lives of many women and men, the hopes of children, the dreams of so many children. As Senator Bishops also recalled, in the fourth grade Piero Terracina is put out of the class and removed from school, "Because you are Jewish" told him his teacher. All this happened here in Italy, Germany had nothing to do with it. It was a persecution that the Italian Government wanted to carry out against its fellow citizens. From that hell called Auschwitz-Birkenau and from many other hells some women, men and children have instead returned, 16 out of over 1,000 here in the ghetto of Rome, including Piero Terracina. They carried with them an indelible pain that had to be reported and that such a tragedy should no longer be repeated; with their lives they witnessed daily that horror. The Nazi delirium, with its crazy plan of genocide, did not achieve to break the life of Piero Terracina, one of those souls who managed to return from hell and tell his frailty as a man. His pain has turned into words, and his words have helped us to understand, grow and become better citizens. The kind ways and the smile of Piero Terracina have made that inhuman page of our recent story alive and tangible. In his words there is the perception of a love for man: for each individual, for each individual, for minorities that are a potential for our society; a diversity that contributes concretely to the development of our knowledge. Piero Terracina has been able to tie the present to the past, helping our country to mature that social consciousness that has redeemed us from our faults. In 1938, nine honourable Senators of Jewish origin sat in this House: Salvatore Barzilai, Enrico Catellani, Adriano Diena, Isaia Levi, Achille Loria, Teodoro Mayer, Elio Morpurgo, Salvatore Segrè Sartorio and Vito Volterra, who were also victims of racial laws; a madness that has also snaked in this Chamber and for which the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars would formally apologize. I conclude with a sentence by Primo Levi, which fits well with Piero Terracina's life: If understanding is impossible, it is necessary to know. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u40	The Conference of Leaders adopted changes to the timetable by a majority. With regard to the procedure at the 5th Permanent Commission, the day of tomorrow will be devoted to the work of the Commissions, with particular reference to the draft budget law and the decree-laws already foreseen in the timetable. Wednesday morning, from 9 a.m., the decree-law on the reconstruction of the territories affected by seismic events will be discussed. Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 12 and 13 December 2019 remain confirmed at 3.30 p.m. The debate on the financing of policy will take place on Thursday 12 morning. The Budget Committee shall be authorized to convene at all stages of the work of the Assembly in which no votes are scheduled. The discussion in the Assembly of the draft budget law will begin at the sitting of Thursday 12, from 3.30 p.m. to 24 p.m., to continue on Friday 13, without closing hours. The deadline for tabling amendments to the Assembly will be fixed in relation to the work of the Budget Commission. Next week's schedule provides, starting Monday, December 16, at 16, in addition to the possible follow-up of the unfinished topics, the discussion of the decree-laws in tax matters and the recruitment of school staff. The vote for the election of a Senator Secretary, already scheduled for Tuesday 17, is postponed to another date, while it remains confirmed for Thursday 19, at 9.30 am, the vote for the election of two members of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data and of two members of the Authority for the guarantees in communications. The sitting of Tuesday 17 December will be suspended from 12 noon to 2 p.m. on the occasion of good wishes to the parliamentary press. The sitting of Wednesday 18, beginning at 9 a.m. will be suspended from 10 a.m. to 12 noon for the conference chaired jointly by the Presidents of the two branches of Parliament to which the Secretary-General of the United Nations will attend and from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. for the end of the year wishes of the Head of State. The sitting of Thursday 19 shall be suspended from 12.30 a.m. to 2.30 p.m. for the President's good wishes to the senators. The schedule of the week's work is scheduled until Friday 20, where necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u41	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted by majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the schedule of proceedings: [[Wednesday 11 December h. 9 - Drawing of law n. 1631 - Decree-Law n. 123, Reconstruction of territories affected by seismic events (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on 23 December) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 12 and 13 December 2019 (Wednesday 11, 15.30) - Debate on the financing of politics (Thursday 12) - Draft law n. 1586 - Budget of the State for the financial year 2020 and multiannual budget for the three years 2020-2022 (final vote with the presence of the legal number) (Thursday 12, 15.30) Thursday 12 " h. 9.30-24 Friday 13 " h. 9.30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 1586 (Budget) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. [[Monday, December 16, h. 16-21 - Following topics not concluded - Drawing of law n. 1638 - Decree-Law n. 124, Tax matter (approved Chamber of Deputies) (decades on December 25) - Drawing of law n. 1633 - Decree-Law n. 126, Recruiting school staff (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on December 29) - Vote for the election of two members of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data and of two members of the Authority for the guarantees in communications (Vote by secret ballot by ballot) (Thursday 19, 9.30 am)* Tuesday 17 " h. 9.30 Wednesday 18 " h. 9 Thursday 19 " h. 9.30 Friday 20 " h. 9.30 (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 1638 (Decree-Law No 124, Tax Matter) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. The sitting of Tuesday 17 December will be suspended from 12 noon to 2 p.m. on the occasion of good wishes to the parliamentary press. The sitting of Wednesday 18 will be suspended from 10 a.m. to 12 noon for the conference chaired jointly by the Presidents of the two branches of Parliament to which the Secretary-General of the United Nations will attend and, from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m., for the end of the year's best wishes to the Head of State. The sitting of Thursday 19 will be suspended from 12.30 a.m. to 2.30 p.m. for the President's good wishes to the Senators. * After the call, the ballot boxes will remain open until 2 p.m. Breakdown of times for discussion of bill No 1631 (Decree-Law No 123, Reconstruction of territories affected by seismic events) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 8' FI-BP 48' L-SP-PSd'Az 46' PD 36' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Mixed 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 12 and 13 December 2019 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 41' FI-BP 29' L-SP-PSd'Az 27' PD 21' FdI 16' IV-PSI 16' Mixed 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1586 (State budget for the financial year 2020 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2020-2022) (30 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 3h Minority Rapporteurs 1h Government 3h Votes 5h Groups 18 hours, of which: M5S 4h 5' FI-BP 2h 51' L-SP-PSd'Az 2h 45' PD 2h 9' FdI 1h 38' IV-PSI 1h 36' Mixed 1h 35' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 1h 21' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1638 (Decree-Law No 124, Tax matter) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 8' FI-BP 48' L-SP-PSd'Az 46' PD 36' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Mixed 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1633 (Decree-Law No 126, Staff recruitment) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 8' FI-BP 48' L-SP-PSd'Az 46' PD 36' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Mixed 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u44	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the Lega Group does not consider the calendar hypothesis just announced to be realistic, because, at least until now, the third package of amendments coming from the majority has not yet been tabled. We already got one from the government a few days ago. On Saturday evening, the rapporteur's package arrived and we are waiting for the latest government package, which should include substantial changes to the measure. At least that's the news coming to us. We have therefore pointed out, at the Conference of the Leaders, that, in the face of a further rewriting of the maneuver, it is necessary to give time to the minorities for the submission of sub-amendments, because only after that can we begin to vote on all the amendments in the Commission. It is therefore unlikely that we can begin the general debate on Thursday afternoon, with the mandate to the rapporteur, and on Friday we can finally close the manoeuvre. We believe that it is much more true that Monday 16 and Tuesday 17 can begin the debate and then proceed to the vote. This, of course, always depends on the time within which the Government decides to table amendments. Let us say this with all our good will, because from the outset - as the members of the Budget Committee present can testify - there has been a completely cooperative and non-obstructional attitude. The only thing we need to note is the fact that we have been in the budget committee for more than a week, and not because the minority does not want to vote and move forward on the amendments, but because the majority cannot agree. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] Since this is only the case in the Senate - we have understood that the House, to the regret of our fellow Members, will in fact only be able to consider the maxi mum amendment that will be tabled and on which confidence will be placed - it may well be done in the right times and it will also be done well. This is what we want to say, in order to avoid that then, inevitably, the haste leads to making mistakes in the first reading, and then inevitably to the third. We also tell you this because of the experience we have experienced directly, when examining other measures, when we were in the government. Let us also point out that Parliament and the opposition cannot be blamed for being so late, because we remember that the measure was presented in the Senate on 2 November, thirteen days behind the table originally communicated. From November 2 to today it has been so many days. So, it is better for the majority to try as much as possible to make an examination of conscience and understand that this certainly cannot go on. I say this here, in front of everyone: I remember the words of last summer, when it was said that we could not vote, because otherwise we would have risked sending the country into temporary exercise. We could not vote in early October, because otherwise we would not have made it and there would have been a provisional exercise. Gentlemen, in temporary exercise you risk going there for your inability to govern. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator La Russa]] That is what you must take into account, beyond the political aspect, on which we will discuss when there will be an opportunity to discuss political differences of opinion and how the maneuver has been set. This has nothing to do with it: we do not go into the matter, but the point is that the majority summits you have done have been almost more than the amendments you have tabled during the examination of the maneuver. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Yet, despite everything, we have not yet come to a solution. And I say that to remember that, when you are too different, it is difficult to govern... Mr Pinotti (PD). You know that from experience! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). ...and you can't think you can rule just to keep someone else from ruling. The President of the House, Mr Fico, rather than writing a letter to the Senate, complaining that the Senate is pulling too long, would do better to write a letter to the Government that says, since, if we are in this condition, it is because the Government still has not delivered the amendments it was supposed to deliver today. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] MIRABELLI (PD). Make the proposal! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). We have also been concerned about some of the amendments that the rapporteurs and the Government themselves have tabled, on which we think and say there may be a favourable opinion, but which have nothing to do with the budget law. So we wrote a letter to President Casellati, demanding his guarantee role, so that, pursuant to Law No 163 of 2016, everything that has to do with organizational and organizational aspects does not fall within the budgetary maneuver. We call on the Government and the rapporteurs to withdraw those amendments, which have nothing to do with the budget rule and which must be the subject of ad hoc measures, which absolutely must be tabled. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] Of course, I remember well what you pointed out to us last year. Indeed, by the way, it would be very nice and interesting to organize - I ask the Presidency if it is possible - a nice screening in the Koch room of all the speeches that the Democratic Party did then, saying of how long the times were. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] I remember in particular the emphasis and determination of my colleague Marcucci; among other things, you also presented that appeal to the Constitutional Court, which today proves to be a boomerang for you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So very congratulations, since you must now vote on the amendments in the Commission, which is why we are late, because the Court has stated so. So, you should think about that before you make certain appeals. COLLINA (PD). We're doing better than you already! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). But it is equally true that last year there was at least one reason that had lengthened the time: I am referring to all the difficulties we encountered and to the fact that there was an arm wrestling between the then Government and Europe on the famous issue of 2.4 percent of the deficit-GDP ratio, because Europe wanted us to be below 2% and then we ended at 2.04 percent. In this case, however, we are faced with the fact, despite the fact that Europe has laid the red carpet at 2.2%, saying "Bravi, go ahead without any problem", that the arm wrestle is within the same majority that supports the government. This is what we need to highlight. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] For all these reasons, of course, ours can only be a vote against the timetable, because it takes the necessary time and we cannot think of compressing - just as you said last year - the terms of the debate and the possibility of analysing the amendments, submitting sub-amendments and putting them to the vote in the Commission. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] We cannot support the timetable that has now been read and we propose - as I said before - that the examination of the draft budget be carried out on Mondays and Tuesdays, at the very least, with a sense of responsibility. On the other hand, we are very sorry that the information on the calamitous events of Liguria and Piedmont, which for us were a much more important object than to discuss the public funding of the parties, has been missed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Senator De Vecchis exhibits a sign with the inscription "Alitalia" is not a package.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u45	Senator De Vecchis, remove that sign now. Put it away. Called back twice; would you like to leave early for Christmas holidays, Senator De Vecchis?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u48	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I liked my colleague's lonely protest. I must say that the absences you see now in the benches of Brothers of Italy are due to the fact that our senators, together with the deputies of Brothers of Italy, at this moment are all with Giorgia Meloni in Brussels, protesting clearly against what we call a fraud, namely the ESM. Stop at the MES. We will talk about this when the time comes, but I wanted to say that we are not embarrassed to say no on this, as on other issues, just as I am not embarrassed to say that we support and adhere to what Mr Romeo said and very critical of the possibility of voting on the timetable that has now been proposed. We would have had the good intention of voting on it. We must not even explain the opposition to a budget law of this kind, because we did so last year, when the conflict was with Europe, as has already been said correctly. We do it with the same intensity this year when the contrast is within the majority forces. We are serene and quiet. We cannot vote on the timetable, although we said at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders that we could also try, because they told us that the government would table the last amendments about three hours ago. We are waiting minute by minute, but we do not see the amendments; we do not know what they are; if, for the umpteenth time, they will profoundly change the nature of the budget law and what time we will have afterwards to be able to subjugate the government amendments. It is a story that really leaves bitterness in the mouth, which is even more increased by the fact that already now there are purely legal amendments tabled in the Commission which would like to be incorporated in the budget law with a handful. On this we have asked - I say it here officially - a meeting with the President of the Republic, who has the duty and the right to be able to look at such events so that it is not possible to oppose not only the regulations, but even the laws of the Italian State that prevent amendments of an organizational or legal nature are proposed in a budget law. Imagine that it is improbable to try to subject to the Government bodies such as the Authorities, which by their nature must be unrelated to any possibility of control of the Executive; yet, there is an amendment in that direction. This is not the place to say why and why. I'd feel too honored to have to explain it, so I don't. But they know that what will happen from here to the next few hours will depend on the attitude of the parliamentarians of the Brothers of Italy Group, who up to now have proved - the President of the Commission will give us notice - absolutely willing to find an opportunity to speed up the process and give Italy a real budget law. If these conditions fail, i.e. the absence of new amendments that upset what we have known so far or, worse, the inclusion of amendments that do not have the possibility of being considered admissible, there will be no collaborative attitude and, even within the limits of the Rules of Procedure, any possible parliamentary initiative will be put in place so that no new attempt by a majority divided over everything will be made, but that it would like to be united in trampling the rights of the opposition and even the rules of law. I would add that, in any case, we shall also take the opportunity to give our consent to the meeting of the Assembly and the Budget Committee at the same time, which can happen if the Commission does not vote, but it cannot happen if the Commission is scheduled to vote while the House is meeting, without the consent of all the parliamentary groups. There is no consensus to date: there can only be the outcome of what we will see in the next few hours. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups and Senator Montani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u51	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr President, it has been more than a month now that the budgetary manoeuvre should be under discussion in this part of Parliament, but we have practically been stuck for ten days. The last operational session of the Budget Commission - and, when I say operational, I mean that amendments have been considered and that some of them have also been voted - took place more than seven days ago, i.e. the Saturday before the last one. Since then, there has also been a great change, namely the will on the part of the Government and the majority to carry out full budget assessments in this branch of Parliament, in the Senate, even for a reason of time. All of this, however, will lead the Budget Commission to have to resume the evaluation of a whole series of issues which had been excluded from in-depth evaluations since its convocation. To date - as my previous colleague, Mr Romeo, has already said - we still do not have the additional amendments that constituted the last week's debate on the media and in the many meetings that took place within the majority of the government. The difficulty of complying with the proposed timetable is that there is no lack of will on the part of the opposition, which has shown that it wants to reach a shared conclusion, accepting with a loyalty pact in the Commission the fact of selecting the amendments, examining a part of them and waiting until today. The opposition's willingness to confront, discuss and evaluate was thus manifested. Of course then, by raising a hand or pressing a button, there will be results. In fact, we have a squeeze of confrontation, at this point, which - if we want to - goes beyond any parliamentary logic assessment. We therefore believe that we must vote against the proposal of the majority of a timetable which has led to the examination of the draft budget law in the House since Thursday, which is impossible, because there are no time spaces to discuss, evaluate and vote, remembering that the basic amendments are still 4,500; with all the sub-amendments and those of the Government, there will therefore be more than 5,000. We are faced with a mortification of this branch of Parliament, and we therefore call for the examination to be postponed beyond Friday, Monday or Tuesday next week. Perhaps this is the most appropriate way of achieving a shared and serene objective of issuing the budget law, beyond political positions. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u52	Senator Pichetto, his proposal therefore coincides with that of Senator Romeo, that the budget law is scheduled on Monday and Tuesday, while Senator La Russa asks that there be no coincidence between the work of the Budget Committee and those of the Senate Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u55	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I do not think that our request that there be no coincidence of the work can be put to the vote, because I do not context that the meetings of the House and the Commission can be contextual. However, it seems to me that no vote can overcome the need for unanimity in the event that the Commission decides to vote, as well as meeting. It is therefore not a problem that can be overcome by the vote, in my view. I would like to say that in order for the House to meet and at the same time to do so, the Budget Committee and to vote is not enough one vote of the House, but it is necessary for the groups to be unanimous. Our favourable opinion on this is not there. So the part to put to the vote is the same as Senator Romeo's proposal. The rest was a report, which cannot be passed by a vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u56	I therefore put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to schedule for next week the debate on the draft budget law, tabled by Senators Romeo and Pichetto Fratin. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u57	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-171.ana.u58	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 11 December, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.06 a.m.
