ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. I offer to your attention a draft program for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 17 to 19 June 2015. 1. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Civil Registration. Importers: Lutvi Mestan and a group of Members of the National Assembly the first draft; Iliya Iliev and a group of Members of the National Assembly the second draft; the Council of Ministers the third draft; Maya Manolova and a group of Members of the National Assembly the fourth draft; Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of Members of the National Assembly the fifth draft the extension of the plenary meeting last Friday. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. Importers: Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. 3. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Family Aid Act for children. Importers: Volen Siderov and a group of MPs "first draft; Stefan Kenov and a group of MPs "second draft; the Council of Ministers " " third draft; Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs " fourth draft. 4. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers: Volen Siderov and a group of MPs - First Draft; Volen Siderov and a group of MPs - Second Draft; Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs - Third Draft; Fourth Draft of the Council of Ministers; Fifth Draft of Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs; sixth of Petar Slavov - continuation of the debate that we held on these six laws. There are two more bills to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Since the debate has begun, we need to complete the first six bills so that we can then look at the other two bills in a separate debate. The time it has been so far cannot fit into the new time entirely and thus deprive MPs who have been involved in the debate to discuss on the new two bills that have taken place later at the time. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code [[General project based on the laws adopted in the first vote with importers: the Council of Ministers, Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs]] . 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping (common project). 7. Draft Decision on the extension of the Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015. Importer: Valeri Simeonov. 8. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Disasters. Importer: Council of Ministers. 9. First vote on the Bill on the closure of the National Grains Service. Importer: Council of Ministers. 10. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to support the strengthening of functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the achievement of optimization of the costs of achieving compliance with Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste water treatment between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4 April 2014. 11. A bill for ratification of the Annex amending the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support with regard to the Secretariat of the South East European Police Cooperation Convention signed on 12 October 2012 in Matrahaza, Hungary. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 12. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Swedish Ministry of Justice and the International Migration Policy Development Centre on the implementation of the project. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 13. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, scheduled for Friday at its usual starting hour We vote. Vote 171 MPs: 156, none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Two proposals have been made in the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure as follows: The first at the time is the MP Petar Slavov from the Reformation Block, which proposes to include in the program a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Protection of Classified Information, No 454-01-66, submitted by Petar Slavov, Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs. There is a second Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Classified Information, which has not been dealt with in committees. I call on Mr. Atanasov and Mr. Lazarov this week to include the Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Protection of Classified Information so that next week we can look at the two laws together. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] When you succeed and turn it on, then we will put to the vote for inclusion in the weekly programme. At this point, there's no way that's gonna happen. There is a second bill pending that has been tabled, but has not been discussed in the committees. The second proposal is by Mr. Volen Siderov concerning the inclusion in the program of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law on the publicity of property of persons holding senior state positions, No 454-01-9, dated 27 October 2014. Who's gonna defend the offer? Mr. Siderov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we are submitting as a proposal under para. 3 to enter into the agenda one amendment in the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior government positions. You know that people who hold senior positions, including we are not civil servants, but we are elected, their property and income are declared. By the way, this is a favorite topic of all media. As you know, the media most like to deal with MP meatballs after journalists ate them in the buffet, as well as how much the zucchini with rice and so on cost. But there is a great injustice, and I very much hope that you, with your vote, will put on the agenda and vote on this proposal for a change in the Law, which says so: A new point is created in art. 2, para. 1 which reads: The owners, managers, editors in charge, deputy editors, publishers, journalists, members of management bodies and producers of social and advertising agencies and public relations agencies, electronic printing and media, Internet editions and production houses will also declare their assets and incomes. What are our motives? Our motives are that sociological agencies, PR agencies, advertising agencies and big media form public opinion, sometimes even manipulate it. You know very well how the sociological agencies are able to suggest that any party will not enter, and then suddenly it enters. But, anyway, they have a very large resource to influence public opinion. Since many times there have been doubts about a conflict of interest, including material benefits that these agencies receive to give one or another result, we insist that something very simple is going on between the bosses, the owners of these agencies to declare their assets, to see if before and after elections they are the same, so that they do not happen to increase, to become larger and to increase their deposits. We believe that this is fair and I call on all of you, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, to support our proposal in the first place to come on the agenda, then to support it and to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u3	I put to the vote the proposal made to include this Bill in our weekly programme. [[National Representative Maya Manolova enters the Chamber.]] We're waiting for Mrs. Manolova to vote. [[Happy tidings.]] Mrs. Manolova, give me some time. I'm waiting for you correctly, but you are solemnly giving it to me. Abort the vote! 140 MPs voted: 80, against 10, abstention 50. [[Applause by "Attacka."]] The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u4	Madam President, I request a re-vote procedure. [[Voices by "Attacka": "Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u5	Colleagues, re-vote. They voted 152 MPs: for 85, against 10, abstention 57. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 10 to 16 June 2015: Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area. Importers are Ivan Kirilov Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. Bill amending and supplementing the Accounting Act. Importers are Willi Lilkov, Petar Slavov and Nastimir Ananiev. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will also see it. Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers are Petar Slavov, Willi Lilkov and Nastimir Ananiev. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is also allocated to the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, and to the Commission on Legal Affairs. A bill for the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, to the Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. Importers are Angel Naydenov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. Draft Decision on the extension of the Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015. The importer is Valeri Simeonov. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. The importer is Rumen Yonchev. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. A bill of recognition, enforcement and transmission of acts imposing measures on procedural coercion other than measures requiring detention. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act. The importer is Rumen Yonchev. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. On 15 June 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 15 June 2015 to 25 June 2020. 20, para. 2 of the Public Sector Financial Management and Control Act received a Consolidated Annual Report on Internal Control in the Public Sector in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 1 January " 31 December 2014" submitted by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. By my letter, the report was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the subcommittee on Public Sector Accountability to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received material from the National Statistical Institute containing statistical research results on the indexes of consumer prices for May 2015. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Mr. Siderov has declared a Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the speech I am making today is a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka. It refers to events that concern all media, commentators, politicians, I have seen lately. It's about what's called domestic crime or gypsy crime. This is not a new topic for us. We have been explaining this issue for ten years, saying how to solve it, but I see that some are now waking up from a lethargic dream and discovering that there was such a phenomenon of domestic crime. Recently, several clashes have occurred, one of them, as you know, was in Garmen, and the other one, has already moved to Sofia. It makes sense to me that in both cases things have turned out the same way. I don't know if that's a scenario, if it's a scenario, then writers don't try to spoil us at all with diversity, repeat the same story. Someone makes a remark to someone about music, and then two groups fight. What have we learned from the competent authorities yesterday? He spoke in the media and said that the persons who were detained were known to the Ministry of Interior. Now, how do they know each other, how do they know each other?! Well, they were known by other cases in which they were involved. In other words, these are the so-called gigs, fans, Spitzkomands, and let's call them, who very much liked to go to fight here and there. I also made my inquiries and found that a large number of those individuals who had participated in a clash in the Orlandovtsi are the same ones who participated in 2013 - 2014 here outside, ravaging down the center of Sofia. Some of them attacked party plants, threw stones and bullied without the police even interfering. Even then we pointed out such persons and gave their names to the Ministry of Interior, only that the Interior Minister then worked against his government and protected them instead of sanctioning them. Now we see that such ags go, go and fight with gypsy groups. We must immediately say that the Prime Minister's warning not to play with fire I accept it 100%. These are words, calls which I myself have made from this tribune and from media tribunes in recent months continuously. I am very glad that the Prime Minister has finally heard what I am saying and said it the same way. It's very good, you learn while you're alive! But, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, especially those of the ruling coalition, I immediately asked myself, who is the Prime Minister addressing with these words, not to play with fire? To whom? Who's he talking to? The agitists or the gypsy groups because both communities work for the ruling coalition. In 2013, one was paid to go out to throw stones and the other paid them when there were elections. So to address two groups who are financially dependent on the ruling coalition, it's very strange to me. Then I asked myself: is he referring to the guarantors, because these are the performers? There are the same active hooligans who, when you pay them 50 BGN, do not matter whether they will throw stones against the "Attack" who has been asking the question of Gypsy crime for ten years and offering how to solve it, or the gypsies who inflate music or do something else. It doesn't make sense unless you're doing this for money, not for beliefs. That's why I don't believe those who are now saying, let's go fight the gypsies. That's not the answer to the question. Neither are the solution to the issue are concentration camps, as some parties from the ruling coalition have suggested. The solution to the question is state-owned. The state must return to the economy and the social sphere as it was before. I remember the times when gypsy communities worked, the state tried to give them jobs. They worked, albeit unqualified work, and there was neither such crime nor such conflicts as now. That was when there was a country! Very often I hear the phrase: "Now why is there no state? " - by representatives of the ruling coalition. There was no country! Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are the state. And if you say there's no country, that means you say you're gone, you don't exist. Pull yourself together and think clearly and rationally. When you say that the Ministry of Interior is not in place, you must remember that you voted for this Home Secretary, you put him in charge of this office and now you are dissatisfied with it. Well, change it, ask him for his resignation, get someone else who can handle it! The question is: is the Ministry of Interior the institution that needs to deal with this problem? No! Again I tell you that this is a problem that has accumulated over the years because a colonial model has been imposed in Bulgaria. Because in Bulgaria, this Euro-Atlantic West, which you worship from morning to night, has made sure that Bulgaria does not have a state, be an atomized society and everyone is against everyone. In our country they became poor and marginalized not only the gypsy communities, but much of the previous middle class. Currently there are people from Bulgarian and other backgrounds who live very poor. It is only natural that when the middle class dies, these communities, which we call "socially weak" will also be among the victims. This is the problem because Bulgaria was made a colonial state because this same Euro-Atlantic West told you during these years: That's what they told you from the West, and the world's famous speculator George Soros organized even ten-days, ten years old? This is Mr. Tsvetanov, let him explain. He was in charge of Roma involvement. Why couldn't these people turn them on I don't know, let them come out and say. The problem is neither in the Ministry of Interior nor in putting police officers and gendarmes in each neighborhood, the problem is that the state will return to the economy, only will the West allow you to do so? No! The problem will not be solved under liberal and neoliberal governance, it will only be solved when they govern political forces and voters point to such political forces, who want illiberal governance, they want social, fair, they want regulation of the state, they want not wild capitalism, they want a social market society. Then the issue will also be solved with those communities that we call "Roma" and "Gypsy" and so on. This is our vision, and we've protected it all these years. Today, we do not accept the hypocrisy of some of the ruling coalition who say: "There is no state, or we should put them in concentration camps. That is not the solution, my dear MPs! Neither totalitarianism nor fascism is the solution to this problem, the solution is a socially just state. Since this issue, this conflict lately seems very suspicious, the same events have started repeating themselves, as I told you, someone is arguing with someone because they have heightened the music and become a fight. This has been repeated one, two, three times already. I'm asking myself, is someone fueling this conflict outside? Is the Prime Minister making his appeal to an external factor? Because if he doesn't dare say anything, I'll say it on his behalf. Prime Minister, point to your call: Don't play with fire to the American Embassy because that's where they were defending all the time this situation of gypsies not to pay their electricity, not to pay their taxes, to live their lives as they please and not to do their duty, but to use only their rights. Then it will become clear that maybe someone has an interest in Bulgaria to ignite ethnic tensions. Perhaps someone outside has an interest and then you can no longer deal with your internal problems, so we need to drop more tanks, and also put in mid-range missiles so that we can protect you from ethnic distresses. That's exactly what they're gonna do, and they've already done it. The Pentagon, as you know, said that it was hesitating whether to bring more heavy equipment into Bulgaria, not that it hadn't dropped, landed, and we showed it very clearly, we even filmed it and broadcast it on TV. Now the Pentagon is thinking about dropping even heavier tanks, putting up rockets, like I said, with medium range to protect us from who? Think of who! President Obama recently announced that Venezuela is a threat to US national security. Does he want the United States, with rockets and heavy equipment in Bulgaria, to protect us from Venezuela, which is a threat to their national security, I don't know, I'm not a specialist, there are generals here, there are other military specialists, let them tell us from whom NATO will protect us, having heavy equipment here? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In my opinion, as an admirer, it will protect us from Russia, only that Russia does not want to attack us, but will be forced to put us on the list of its targets.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u7	Thank you, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u8	Do you see the connection between the two questions? Ethnic tensions are heavy American technology. Yeah, that's what he's after, and whoever doesn't see him is just deaf and blind.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u9	Thank you, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u10	They want to make a civil war here so that the presence of foreign troops and equipment can become permanent. Whoever wants to argue with me, I'm ready to make a round table, but I have to warn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u11	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. You're forcing me to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u12	Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u13	We're moving to point one of our week's first: FIRST VOICE OF LEGISLATION LAWS AND ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR THE CIVIL REGISTERATION I recall that in the plenary sitting of 12 June 2015. Friday, debates have been opened. The following MPs took part in them: Dobromir Prodanov, GERB, Iliya Iliev, DPS, Iskren Veselinov, Patriotic Front, Rusen Riza, DPS, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Patriotic Front, Ramadan Atalaj. The remaining time of the parliamentary groups is extended: the group of GERB - 31 minutes and 57 seconds; BSP left Bulgaria - 22 minutes and 20 seconds; DPS - 3 minutes and 29 seconds; the Reformation Block - 18 minutes; the Patriotic Front - 11 minutes and 23 seconds; Bulgarian Democratic Center - 14 minutes; Ataka Company - 13 minutes; ABB Group - 13 minutes, and independent 5 minutes. Are there any MPs who would like to speak? Mr. Lutvi Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Debates on the Bill of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms for amendment and supplement of the Civil Registration Act have been charged in our opinion with excessive emotional degree. In fact, it is a proposal aimed at restoring a simple justice. Dear colleagues, unfortunately in the legislative process of Bulgaria and in this Parliament, it is essential, apart from what is proposed and who is proposing it. In this sense, the considerations we have heard against the bill were rather related to the importer and not so much to what we propose. We were encouraged by a request that we heard from the right that they would initiate their draft amendment to the Civil Registration Act and propose their decision to restore elementary justice with the names of those who died during the revival process. It has been months, many months, but such a legislative initiative on the right has never appeared. We have stated in advance that we will support such an initiative regardless of who will propose the amendment to the Law. We may be the only parliamentary group that has the valor to support one initiative or another from the point of view of its content and not from the point of view of the importers' profile. Therefore, since there is no one but the DPS to propose these laws, we have waited long enough for you, you have nothing left but to support the DPS initiative, of course, if you are Democrats. If not, the vote will show. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we are trying to save emotion and commit to something else. Let the following two things remain for a second reading from this legislative initiative. Administrative recovery of the names of the deceased because they do not have the possibility of volition. For all other Bulgarian citizens with violently changed names, let the act of recovery be the result of their explicit will expressed by an application, but again by administrative means, not by court and without due fees, because these names have not been changed by their will, but by force. The call is for justice through vote for the Law of the Movement of Rights and Freedoms. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u15	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u16	Honourable Members, Madam President! In the previous plenary session at the presentation of the bill submitted by BSP left Bulgaria I developed detailed arguments why these changes should be undertaken and how they affect the upcoming local elections. We are talking about the mass migration of voters in small municipalities from the centre to the periphery, which we have seen over the past few months. With the registration of 20, 30, 50, 100 voters in non-existent buildings, in semi-destructed ones, in barns, in any abandoned administrative buildings, a number of candidates for mayors hope to change the local vote by ensuring a preliminary official victory, because it is no secret to anyone that the migration of these voters is for one purpose to influence the outcome of the local vote. The names of Gergo Gergov, mayor's deputy in Kireevo, Tseka Lalova from Gramada, Vlado Kupa, the mayor's cousin Tsvetan Petkov became known by the Bulgarian media precisely for the quarrel on the topic of which more voters he was able to register at his addresses. Besides the entertainment that flows from the TV screens, we should also be aware of the demoralizing effect on Bulgarian citizens, who, by watching this election race, who will register to support it at the local vote, eventually disincentive people to participate in the elections at all, because people are asking: "Why should we go to vote after candidates for mayors, representatives of different party power stations, have already provided the necessary number of voters who will vote in order for a certain amount of money without having to asphalt the streets, fill them with holes, solve them any problems ahead? For this reason, I expect that this time and as a result of the calls of the President of GERB to the parliamentary group of our majority bill and that of the Reformation bloc will be supported. Once again, I would like to stress that there is nothing party about the bill. Voters abuse all party plants, candidates of different party colors. The idea of this bill is to tell citizens that we will make an effort to make the elections fair and that at least what is a matter of legislative changes will be done by parliament, whether the MPs represent the opposition or the parliamentary majority. Indeed, the chaos in registrations is enormous, including by the Ministry, which is responsible for monitoring these registrations. I will only give you two references that I have from the Ministry of Regional Development. For example, for the municipality of Plovdiv, according to the Regional Ministry, the newly executed registrations in the period 1 February 25 April were 6972. According to a reference that Minister Pavlova provided in response to a parliamentary question to a representative of the Reformation bloc, these new registrations for the period 1 November 2014. " 30 April 2015 is 2237. That is, there is also a problem in the Regional Ministry itself with the reporting of the new registrations at the current address, which is proof that the chaos with the new registrations is indeed complete. We are witnessing in practice the daily shares of the prosecution in various municipalities in which it is trying to put some order, starting criminal proceedings for violations of the law committed in connection with the new registrations. Here I would like to draw attention to all the lawyers in this Chamber that we cannot let the prosecution carry out deregistereds, cancel registrations of newly settled voters because it does not have such powers. It can be included and intervened only in cases where documents with false content or forged ones have been used, but when mayors based on real notary acts and real consent of property owners have registered 50 people in a semi-damaged barn or 20 people in a abandoned building, there is no way to rely on the prosecution that it will cope with internal electoral tourism, which occurs in mass sizes 6 months before the elections. Therefore, the commitment to legislative changes belongs to the Bulgarian National Assembly. If you vote in favour, you will support the performance of a service check on all new registrations in the period 1 February 30 April, and after carrying out this service check all who have registered in violation of the law will have to be re-registered at their current addresses, i.e. they will be permanently deleted from the new addresses. I note that the vote in this way can be replaced not only in small municipalities but also in large municipalities such as Plovdiv with 6700 new voters. Every candidate for mayor of Plovdiv will simply participate in the competition without real chances. I give an example only the last time the contested battle was ultimately resolved by just over 2,000 votes, so 6,000 new registrations completely change the outcome of the local vote, including in such a large municipality as Plovdiv. Today's vote is extremely important as well as because of the real changes in the registrations that will take place after the adoption of these legislative changes and in order to give a sign to Bulgarian citizens that it makes sense to vote and that at least the MPs who sent to parliament will make some effort to make the elections to be a little more honest and the election results in a number of municipalities not to be written in advance. Again, the problem is not only with small settlements, not only with villages of less than 100 voters, not only with municipalities of 2,000 people, but also with municipalities such as Plovdiv, which can have a pre-solved result due to abuse of address registrations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Ms. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! In Friday's debate, we didn't have time to explain ourselves a little bit more because parliamentary control had to start. Personal attacks have been made to me, and I would like to respond to them about how I am a Member of the National Assembly here, with which power and with which blessing. Mr. Atalay tried to tell everyone that somewhere and somehow they brought in buses that voted, and that's why I'm here. Where and how, in which sections? Let him come out and say it! By whose power am I here in the forty-two and forty-third National Assembly? According to the residents of Kardzhali district, who found out that there are people and parties working for them. By whose power are the MPs of the DPS in the National Assembly? I want to explain some basics to you, and then I'll move on to the debate. First, BSP is the party that gave a major monopoly to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in the Mixed Regions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u19	Tell me about the Orlands! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u20	GERB is the party that really works for all Bulgarian citizens. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] These mixed regions became feudal domains, people were being pressured, buses were being brought in, voter lists were being forged. All this led to 15 thousand additional voters in Kardzhali district. These voters from 2014 brought in several other DPS MPs, but now I want to talk about the bills that are here. I want to remove the emotional degree, but I had to explain these few details. Regarding Mr. Iliev's Bill there, we do not see a solution to the problem. Certain citizens are registered there at a business address. They don't want to deal with the housing problem or anything else. And here I suspect there's a job to become potential voters. Under the second bill of Mr. Mestan, the revival process is one big wound. Indeed, this case must be condemned, and we have already condemned it. The fact that there are people who have died with changed names is a fact. We should not give the opportunity to abuse this, to speak in a way that sharpens some tension between Bulgarian citizens. There is a resonant in the proposal, but I believe that there should be no administrative imposition of absolutely all because, honourable colleagues, apart from the Bulgarian Turks who have changed their names, there are also Bulgarian-Muhamedans who insist on staying with their Bulgarian names, and want their deceased relatives to also remain with these names. I think it is appropriate to work in this direction, but to make it so that there is a desire, for example, at the request of heirs, so that it can be clearly regulated who and how wants the name of his relative and parent to be changed. Historical righteousness must prevail, but let this be at the request of relatives, relatives, and possibly take these steps. According to Mrs. Manolova and Mr. Zelenogorski's bill, we will support them because there is a true feeling of things. We need to work even more on improving the texts, but I hope between first and second readings there we will make the relevant changes and we will partly stop this shameful act of migration from one place to another of Bulgarian citizens. It is unacceptable in the 21st century to move people and lead them as electoral units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u21	Mr. Mikov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Karayancheva, I do not know what BSP has done to the DPS, but to tell you about the Orlands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u23	Is that on the subject, Mr. Mikov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u24	I'm making a line for Mrs. Karayancheva, I don't comment with you. So, let's see who lets what in. [[Loud noise, laughter and excitement.]] There GERB has 44%, with an average of 36% for the election district. All other political forces have the average results for their region in the Orlandovtsi. The DPS has 0.94%. Isn't that right, Mr. Mestan? So I don't know who lets what, I don't know who registers what, but these people who talk about aliens in the Orlandos, your mayor and your mayor of Orlandos, go talk to them, see who lets what and where, because I'm sick of hypocrisy. And the results are clear: GERB in [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] ; The Patriotic Front..7.64%. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Did you ever carry a bag there? [[Loud noise and laughter.]] Have you ever worn one, so you know how to call now? [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u25	Mr. Mikov, don't go into lines with other MPs. You replicate Mrs. Karayancheva, as you said.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u26	BDZ.44%; ABB.403%; and DPS.044%. And I don't know who's what, who's letting who?! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u27	Second line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u28	Dear Mrs. Karayancheva, my line is for you. In the exhibition you did to defend your thesis, I think you should have started with this, and you said in fact that GERB are consistent in their positions. We know what election tourism used to be like. We know how people with flying notes registered. What we have done is to request a document certifying the right to register at a certain address. The mayors themselves have to demand these documents, they have to dignify these people in order to interrupt election tourism. That's what we did, Mrs. Karayancheva. It was very important to say at that moment. But the problem deepened a little later when out of 350 people the requirement for a village mayor turned 100. It was the millstone that turned the system that we were trying to change. That's what needs to be emphasized. You have affected him very little, but this has led to the chaos at the moment to have electoral tourism, because apparently 350 people have been an unattainable goal for some, no matter who, and at the moment these 100 people give certain mayors the right to register people and exercise electoral tourism. This is very important. It is a retreat from the positions of democracy to lower the limit so much that you can carry out these registrations. Those are the main things. Everything else, if this problem is politicized right now, we're gonna push it even further and we don't know where we're going. Let's not talk about the Orlands and so on. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Look, this is Sofia Municipality. You on the left can never enter Sofia Municipality. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u29	To Mrs. Karayancheva is the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u30	Never! This is your dream, but in Sofia Municipality people know you very well, so let's not talk about it. Let's talk about the problems as they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u31	Mr. Lazarov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u32	Dear Ms. Karayancheva, I have no intention of washing the guilty conscience of the government until 2009. Then, with one note, with one statement against BGN 2,00, indicating the address, this registration became. In the first Election Code of 2010 I would like to remind you of this because you have missed it. We have introduced the principle of seclusion. The first BSP colleague who gave you a line, then Coalition for Bulgaria, attacked in the Constitutional Court the principle of secession. They wanted to drop it, that's where the whole problem comes from. In 2010, with the first Election Code, this principle was then adopted, we introduced the authorisation regime for registration within four months. Once again I will remind you of the BSP then they wanted and attacked the Constitutional Court to reject the principle of seclusion, until then there was electoral tourism. In 2010 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I would like to remind you that we have introduced a ban on a voting certificate elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u33	You could have done it in the form of a statement because you're essentially developing a self-thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u34	So, Ms. Karayancheva, we have no intention of washing our guilty conscience for the existence of electoral tourism until 2009. As far as the Orlandos are concerned, there is not only a Roma neighborhood, but apparently some colleagues are accustomed to rely only on the Roma's voices if they make such a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u35	A hole, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u36	Dear colleagues of BSP, you are very sad that you can never enter Sofia Municipality and mayor there, and that will not happen. [[BSP LB.]] I want to thank Mr. Ivanov for reminding me of a very interesting fact. I'm going to tell you about these 100 inhabitants of a populated area who are about to become one. There is an interesting experience such that in a village in Kardzhaliysko, as it surrounds itself with 100 people, 100 people live there, but there is only one family of five living there. We have to choose from these five people the father, the son, the mother, the grandmother, who to run for mayor. We need to make an election section, we need the state to give funds to open it, respectively, to make a electoral commission. There are many other settlements where, thanks to the Election Code adopted by the previous government, such anomalies will occur. The other, I would also like to thank Mr. Lazarov for reminding me of the principle of seclusion. Yes, the sedentary principle has really stopped some of the electoral tourism, but let's get back to the bills that we are discussing today. We will support the bills, I said, both Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski and Mrs. Maya Manolova and Mr. Lutvi Mestan in this part where people should get their justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u37	You didn't say anything about the Minister's Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u38	And the Bill of the Council of Ministers, of course. But between first and second readings, we will bring exactly the amendment that I have here from the parliamentary tribune said that justice must be served, but at the will of the heirs, so that their wish can be declared and the names of those who want can be returned, because the deceased cannot wish this to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u39	Mr. Mestan has a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ms. Karayancheva, we appreciate the dignity of the development in your position on this bill. I have already said in my speech that we agree with all living Bulgarian citizens with violently changed names to apply the principle of volition, and on the basis of the volition, without due fees, judicial and other administrative, not through the court, to be able to recover their actual names. With regard to the names of the deceased, however, this should be the official duty of the Bulgarian state. I hope that, between first and second readings, you will further develop your position on the need for the names of the deceased to be restored in a professional manner, without the need to collect applications from the heirs, because this possibility exists in the current Law, so you will not change anything. I assure you that one of your support for such an approach, with the compromise that the importers of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are making, will be a strong sign that the forty-third Parliament can generate democratic solutions and outline a common value field for the various political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u41	Mrs. Manolova's manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u42	Mrs. President, you did not give me the opportunity to make my reply to Ms. Karayancheva's speech and you watched quietly how colleagues Ivanov and Lazarov abused their right to a reply [[Replications by MPs Stanislav Ivanov and Dimitar Lazarov]] because they did not object to what Mrs Karayancheva said, but made mini speeches in the context of the reply procedure. In this way, I cannot answer them because I also have to abuse the procedure for personal explanation, but I would like to pay attention at least to the data which was incorrect, incorrect and falsely interpreted by the parliamentary platform. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the issue of electoral migration does not concern only small towns and small villages at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u43	Not only!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u44	This disease has spread to the big cities as well. The media made dozens of reports from small municipalities with 1,000 population, but somehow missed a report on Plovdiv. Plovdiv is not from 100 inhabitants. In Plovdiv, newly settled before April 25th, new voters are 6972 with 2500 more than the same period last year, which means that someone has decided to buy in advance even the elections in Plovdiv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u45	Mrs. Manolova, you said that in your statement. I don't see what it's like to be here the way it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u46	So the vote is really important. The raising of the emotional degree, I think, has another objective of dissuading MPs who would otherwise wisely vote for the bills of stubbornness to vote against. That's why this party fight started in the gym. [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Please, Ms. Karayancheva, do not give in to provocations, but really support texts that you are convinced should be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u47	Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski has the floor to speak. Then Mr. Jablyanov. We're taking turns. [[(Replication by National Representative Dimitar Lazarov: Personal explanation!]] Colleagues, the debate is on. I've given Mr. Zelenogorski his word.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u48	Some abuse the way they conduct things.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to thank, on behalf of the Reformation Block, colleagues from the Patriotic Front, colleagues from GERB and other parliamentary groups, colleagues from BSP who will support our bill. We support Mrs. Maya Manolova's Bill. The two bills are in the same direction, with the emphasis of our bill being placed on reducing the border, on the possibility of adding people with a desire for a temporary address at a certain address. At the same time, we also introduce a requirement that, if there are people with temporary address in hotels, shelters or other outlets, the procedure be renewed every four months, because, in our opinion, if these are people who have gone to work in a resort in the mountains or in some locality on the Black Sea, the seasons are usually within about four months. Unfortunately, except in the small municipalities we were talking about, probably in some large municipalities, I hope now that after the checks this will become clear.. there are such deviations, but there are also such deviations in serious resort settlements that swell sensitively. It is probably also related to the upcoming local elections. We would not in any way want to strain the atmosphere or indicate which political force uses electoral tourism in one direction or another. We would just like there to be clear rules, they to be followed and the necessary control to be carried out by the municipalities and the state, so that we can really move towards clearing the process. I would say that this is a small contribution, I hope, essential, in eliminating electoral tourism, because an effective democracy in a Member State of the European Union could hardly allow such things. It seems unthinkable to me that in an old democracy in the European Union it is possible to think of such a practice, let alone to realize it and to move people from one place to another with a single idea to ensure the success of elections. I hope that between first and second reading the texts will be refined. I am convinced that all of us and the Bulgarian society need a clear Civil Registration Act. We had talks with colleagues who are already in control, including the Ministry of Interior. Unfortunately, the things found in this control are quite serious and dramatic. We have a lot of background checks, but I'll just give you a few examples. In the municipality of Treklyano, a small municipality has increased by 30% people who want to live there within a few months. In the municipality of Gorna Malina, by 20%; in the municipality of Gramada in the case of 2000 residents, in no time a temporary address has requested 596 people, which is an increase of 25%. Problems in Makresh, Boynitsa, Dimovo, Novo village, Ruzhintsi. We've explored several areas. I'm sure if we start examining others, we'll find out the same thing. In these small municipalities, it turns out that people who want to receive a temporary address in them compared to the same period last year have increased by 300%, i.e. three times. We want to put an end to this, and I am convinced that we will all show the necessary wisdom and state-of-the-art thinking, because effective democracy requires clear and precise procedures, compliance with the law and, in any case, the necessary control to be as strengthened as possible. In this sense, we support the ideas of fellow Member Manolova and fellow Members who supported this bill to increase the fines for officials who have allowed such things. Finally, I will end up with the so-called "service license" - is it possible to implement it after the changes in the Law on Civil Registration. I think it's natural that the answer is... and it is not even necessary to write such things in the bills, but we have done it anyway. If you are illegally registered and are not aware of both you and an official, the requirement to register this address, obviously this registration is illegal, contrary to the Law and should not cause any real consequence. It seems quite odd to me that at one address they are registered at 70, 80, 100 people, given that we are talking about several dozen square meters, not to mention different barns, barns and any other business buildings. I'm finishing up here. I hope a more serious majority will support these bills, quickly make the changes between first and second readings, they will enter parliament so that much earlier before the local elections can be voted on and give the administration a chance to do its job to ensure fair and fair elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u50	Any lines to Mr. Zelenogorski? Mrs. Manolova. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u51	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Zelenogorski, you are expected to slip along the plane set by the Regional Ministry. I would like to protect all MPs from going in this direction through an absolute selective list of municipalities and areas where there is resettlement and abuse of new voters. First, the direction and reference presented by the Regional Ministry on the official website is neither complete nor correct, which is also visible from the answer of the Minister of Parliamentary Affairs. For example, as areas of mass migration in my opinion, the districts of Pleven, Plovdiv, Sofia region, Haskovo, in which the migration is in no smaller sizes than those mentioned Montana, Vidin, Kyustendil and Pernik. Secondly, an analysis of a specific municipality in which there is a serious resettlement of voters shows ultimately conclusions that are absolutely different from those initially assumed. I give an example of the municipality of Treklyano, where I will even correct you by not 30%, but 30 times the number of newly registered voters for the elections has increased. Since this is a municipality of my constituency, I know practically every person there, I want to ask you a question: why, according to you, in a municipality where BSP has won absolutely all elections since 1990, the mayor has chosen it on the first round, regardless of the national conjuncture our result is over 50%, why do you think in this municipality where BSP has no problem winning any elections, the mayor is from BSP, currently has 30 times more [[the President signals that time has run out]] newly registered voters from the same period last year? For the simple reason that some other candidates and party plants want to change the result.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u53	The opposite is probably true for municipalities in which GERB is strong and new voters are registered, or SDS and voters are registered. I suggest you don't bump into this plane, because it will lead us to false results.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u54	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. Any other lines? Mr. Zelenogorski for the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I assure you that I and as President of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government will do my best to have a full reference for the whole country and I will in no way try to abuse it in one direction or another. It is obvious that there are such practices. To tell you the truth, mentioning the UDF and the Reformation Block is absurd, because in no way have we been involved and would not be involved in such practices. But, you are right, there are large cities in which there are such concerns and we, in order to avoid these concerns, must quickly vote on the Law at second reading, enter into force, implement the necessary control and illuminate all these processes to make it clear to the public that there has been a problem, we are trying to solve it quickly, then see if there is another problem related to the integrity of the elections in order to try to solve it, too, because 25 years after the beginning of the new Bulgarian democracy to talk about integrity in the implementation of elections is simply absurd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Zelenogorski. For a statement there is the popular representative Valeri Jablyanov. Here you are, dear Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members. The conversation seemed to go in one direction that wasn't necessary. It is hardly necessary to convince ourselves that the Law on Civil Registration is not a law governing how to vote and who to win the elections, with such an impression was left by the debate, but it is a law how citizens in a country to belong to the state and that it can find them at a certain address, when it needs them, to give them a subpoena, to pay their taxes. That is, the Civil Registration Act primarily aims to create order in the state. And here, a little note, it doesn't matter whether the state is democratic or not even democratic. Every self-respecting state brings order to how citizens register, to what address, how they answer to the state, where they can find them for taxes, or for any other matter. It seems to me that the most unpleasant thing about the situation we are in is that we are going to change this law under the pressure of circumstances again. I have no doubt that perhaps in a month or even a year, we will return to this law again. Not for anything else, but because the objective circumstances, the movement of the population, migration, the transfer of large groups of people between the continents will require us to return to this law again. Because that's not the law of who you are, a village or a city mayor, who decided to repeat his mandate or to reassign it. Thinking about it like that, we're not getting anywhere. I have no doubt that at the moment there is a good desire to bring order, because disorder sees it now what it looks like. It doesn't matter who recorded who in the Orlandos, in Kirkovo or elsewhere. It doesn't matter who recorded it. The point is, we're looking at the consequences right now. And my personal request, to my colleagues at BSP, is that we put the party matter aside right now. The civil registration law is necessary for the tax services, the police, it is necessary for the Ministry of Defence. How will a mobilization take place? Can you imagine at a moment if you had to do this thing? Therefore, we do not make an election law, we do not add to the Election Code and we should not approach the amendments to the Civil Registration Act with this idea. Here I would like to draw attention to two things: the lack of detail in the definition of the notions.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What does that mean in practice? I remember that this debate was held a year ago, maybe a year and more when we discussed the Election Code and how seclusion was determined. And we came to some pointless logical structures then to explain whether he was sedentary or sedentary and how long he lived. Therefore, perhaps in future changes, we should really clearly define who is the permanent and which is the current address, what deadlines and how they change, how they are reflected in the documents. Where is the current address currently reflected, excuse me, colleagues, except in the registry of the Gravity? Where does it affect? What if there is a discrepancy between this register and the register of personal documents where the permanent address is recorded? How are the two registers verified and updated? These are serious questions. We will not solve them with the current amendments. The current amendments are paradoxical, not because of anything else, but because we are making amendments to comply with the Law to force those who have broken it to be so good as to respect it. I do not want to inform you that our debate, because it is being closely monitored by those who will participate in the elections, regardless of which political power, in many places all the documents have already been taken to comply with the amendments that we propose. Do not underestimate the Bulgarian society. People are flexible, they know what changes we're gonna make and they're gonna adapt what they're doing to what we're doing. The results will not be much more than what we are doing, but rather it is a demonstration of the desire of the legislative body of the Republic to bring order to civil registration. I think there's nothing wrong with that. I believe that the proposals that are being made in both our project and in the draft of colleagues from the Reformation Block will not lead to a significant improvement of the situation. I'm not saying this because I'm a pessimist, but because of the reasons I've listed so far. And that is why I call, in a calmer period of our work, to return to the Civil Registration Act, not for any other reason, but because it is an issue which puts legislation to the test in many countries of the European Union, it is not because of the elections, but because of the growing migration of the population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! Mr. Zablyanov, yes, it is. The law on civil registration is used by the NRA and a number of other bodies, but it is also used by the CEC, at the time when before the elections they begin to form the electoral lists and on the basis of these electoral lists then the vote takes place. It is this particular problem that we are trying to solve here today. The problem is when six months before the elections there is a requirement for seclusion, and in the last six months there have been 20% more voters registered, such as in the municipality of Gorna Malina sia, and these people have not lived there, no one knows them and will not live there, and suddenly some people who appear out of nowhere, come to elections, vote and then disappear again and return to where they are from, this is a problem of the state, a problem of the Law. And if we can tighten this law and tighten control by predicting sanctions for people who are responsible for following the law, I think we should do everything we can, because ultimately the elections are a democratic process and any attempts at small manipulations and retail numbers and official winning elections must be blocked by us here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u60	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Any other lines to the speech of the MP Valeri Zablyanov? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u61	Dear Mr. Delchev, I do not take your speech as a line because I fully agree with him. I just want to highlight something that may not have become clear during my speech. When I said we didn't make any changes to the election law, I didn't say it didn't matter. I'm saying that civil registration is a process that does not specifically concern elections. We somehow, as if, seeking to respond to our interests, which will arise in a party line at the end of the autumn, are trying to think about civil registration as a registration of voters. Civil registration is not just a voter registration. Civil registration is the order in the country. That is what this is about, and when it is there, there will be no problem about the elections. Everything we are talking about right now will be unnecessary, and each of us will know how much we have received, without making efforts, without carrying bags and without dealing with other similar technologies, which, as we can see at the end of the day, do not give as a total result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the bills in the order of their entry. First, I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration, No 454-01-28, submitted by Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u63	They voted 164 MPs: for 103, against 35, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. Revoting Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Some of the colleagues failed to vote because they entered the Chamber at the last minute, and it is important to see who voted for this Bill proposed by the DPS. I hope that last week's round you proposed to us, Madam President, for delaying the vote this week is not the reason to support such a bill, because I will tell you what DPS wants to do not rename the deceased, but their feudals and mayors of the country to rename the current Bulgarian-Mohammedans administratively. [[Loud noise and lines in DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u65	That's a statement on the ground!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u66	Don't cry!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u67	Revoting! They voted 171 MPs: for 104, against 40, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration, No 454-01-55, submitted by Ilija Iliev and a group of MPs. Vote 176 MPs: 35 against 105, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 454-01-90, submitted by the National Representative Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. Vote 159 MPs: 145, against 3, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration, No 554-01-106, tabled by Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs. Vote 157 MPs: 142 against 5, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 502-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers. We are voting on the Law of the Council of Ministers. Vote 156 MPs: for 127, against none, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. Revoting Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u68	Madam President, I ask you to re-vote the newly voted Draft of the Council of Ministers. I guess the BSP colleagues got confused and didn't realize that by consensus we accepted all the submitted bills. I'm asking for a re-vote because there have been a lot of votes from my fellow Members against you. Let's stop populism and support all the bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u69	It's a re-vote. They voted 137 MPs: 133, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S BANK. Importers - Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. A report of the Committee on Budget and Finance has come in, which will introduce us to Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u70	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a bill amending the Bulgarian Law National Bank, No 554-01-111, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 5 June 2015 At a meeting held on 11 June 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the bill mentioned. The meeting was attended by Biserka Vancheva, leading legal consultant at the Bulgarian National Bank. The bill was presented by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The current provision of art. 14, para. 2 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank provides that upon early termination the powers of a member of the Management Board of the Bulgarian National Bank should be elected in its place, respectively appoint another person for the remainder of the term of office. Upon acceptance of the proposed amendment to cancel art. 14, para. 2 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank, in any event the members of the Governing Council of the Bulgarian National Bank will be elected with a term of six years, as is the general rule of art. 12, para. 4 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. In your current editorial article. 14, para. 2 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank is incompatible with art. 14.2 of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, which is a Protocol to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and is part of the primary law of the European Union. That provision requires a minimum duration of the term of office of 5 years, which, when applied to art. 14, para. 2 cannot be respected. The proposed amendment of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank aimed at eliminating its non-compliance with art. 14.2 of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank has been consulted by the European Central Bank in 2010, for which a public opinion has been issued by the ECB CN/2010/25, but the legislative amendments agreed with the European Central Bank have not been submitted at the time. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:............................... 17 MPs..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, the Draft Amendment Act on the Bulgarian National Bank, No 554-01-111, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 5 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u71	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. On behalf of the importers? I won't. I'm opening the debate. Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches. Here you are.. the People's Representative Rumen Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let us apply two or three basic criteria for decision-making on this important issue. As with all laws, the first question is whether what we propose is in line with the European directives, with the practices of the European Central Bank, with which our Central Bank has a high degree of coordination in its actions. The answer is yes, it is in line with the European Union directives, it is in line with the policies and recommendations of the European Central Bank. The proposed changes to the texts correspond to the practices of the European Union in which we are a member. Secondly, from the point of view of the interests of Bulgaria's banking system, we all know that last summer we experienced difficult moments, including the collapse of trust in banking supervision and other state institutions, because some of the representatives of this supervision had obviously behaved badly and allowed a breakthrough in the supervisory functions of the Central Bank. This led to a reduction of the trust of Bulgarian citizens and institutions in the banking supervision, which most of all requires that we do everything possible to facilitate the expected changes by the Bulgarian public, by the business and the Bulgarian banking system, so that in the coming weeks the personnel changes can be accelerated and that the banking supervision can organize the so-called stress tests for the Bulgarian banking system required by the European Commission and the European Central Bank. Furthermore, in terms of the formation of teamwork in the management of BNB, we also need to support the changes made, as it will not be serious to expect that any colleague would take over the management of the Central Bank in a month and would undergo a personnel stress test because such a mechanism would put its professionalism at risk. Therefore, I believe that we should support the proposed texts because they are in the interest of the stability of the Bulgarian banking system, restoring trust in the banking system and the normal functioning of the banking system as one of the essential, important mechanisms in the Bulgarian economy. Dear colleagues, from BSP left Bulgaria we recommend to the other colleagues to support these changes as they will help restore trust in the banking system of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u73	Thank you, Professor. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I close the debates and put to the vote a bill amending the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank, No 554-01-111, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 5 June 2015. The Budget Committee proposes to support unanimously the First Voting Bill. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u74	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. Since the bill is supported by a hundred percent of the MPs, there are no proposals made, I suggest that you put to the vote this same Bill and for a second vote, according to art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u75	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mrs. Stoyanova for admission of the bill until the second vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Mrs. Stoyanova, please come to propose the report for the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE amending the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 para. Two is FINAL DISCLOSURE § 2. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u77	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the name of the Law, § 1, the name Vote 85 MPs: 84 against 1, no abstentions. The name of the Law, § 1, the name of the Final provision and § 2 are adopted in a second vote. We continue with the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE FAMILY HELP LAW FOR CHILDREN. They are: Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014; Stefan Kenov and a group of MPs on 20 November 2014; the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2015; Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs on 13 May 2015. The report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy will introduce us to the President of the Commission Dr. Hassan Ademov. Here you are, Mr. Ademov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 454-01-11, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting, held on 14 January 2015, examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aids for Children Act with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. The bill was presented by Mr. Desislav Chukolov of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Attack. The importers shall offer in art. 3 of the Family Aid Act for Children, which defines persons and families entitled to family benefits for children, to introduce an age threshold of 18 years for receiving family benefits in pregnancy, childbirth and child rearing. The importers stress that with the introduction of the requirement that family aid should only be granted to minors, the bill aims to limit the phenomenon of children giving birth to children, as well as to prevent certain groups of society from having access to family aid for financial and economic benefit from the social assistance system. By reducing the number of underage parents, the integration of marginalized communities will help reduce the number of births in multi-member families without education and income that cannot provide the needs of their children and improve the quality of life of these families. It will also improve the demographic picture in the country. Following a discussion and discussion, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: With results:....... 3 votes.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u80	Next. ♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 454-01-49, submitted by Stefan Kenov and a group of MPs on 20 November 2014. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting held on 14 January 2015, discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for children with importers Stefan Kenov and a group of MPs. The bill was presented by the MP Stefan Kenov from the parliamentary group of the party. The importers shall offer in art. 7, para. 1 of the Law, which lays down the conditions for granting monthly aid to a child until the completion of secondary education, but not more than 20 years of age, to remove the income criterion laid down in the provision of art. 4 of the Children's Family Aid Act. The second proposal of the importer shall be in art. 7, para. 4 t. 1 to regulate a higher amount of aid for the second and third children in the family. § 3 proposes that the Law should enter into force from 1 January 2015. After the discussion and voting, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee with results:...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The third one. ♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 502-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2015. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting held on 20 May 2015 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children with the Importer Council of the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister for Social and Demographic Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. The proposed changes aim at improving the effectiveness and focus of family support by introducing measures to promote responsible parenting, introducing higher aid intensity to a third child and achieving greater social justice in providing family assistance. The new moments in the Bill are defined in the following main directions: a definition of the concept of "useful assistance" is proposed as "funds in money and/or in kind, which help raise children in a family environment by parents or by carers and introduces the use of the concept of "helps in kind" instead of the concept of "social investment" in 2006. The main functions of the executive bodies shall be regulated and the right of free access to the National database is provided for. Family aid shall be systematised by determining on one-off and monthly and on aid granted in cash and/or in kind. The grounds for granting aid in kind are extended, and as of now, the existing "no care for the child and no use of the aid for the intended purpose, no assistance is added in implementing protection measures within the meaning of the Child Protection Act and all cases of child benefit from underage mothers. It is mandatory to take measures for protection in a family environment against minors and mothers who are treated as children at risk. The conditions for granting family assistance are extended by introducing requirements that the child is not accommodated for farming outside the family, as well as the entitled persons and children to live permanently in the country. A single aid is introduced in carrying out adoption in the country, without a lucrative test, and with a size not greater than the amount of aid in the birth of the first child. It is proposed that one-off birth benefits of the first, second and third children are higher than aid for the fourth and subsequent child. A total amount of monthly support for raising a child shall also be determined until secondary education is completed for the family, depending on the number of children for which it is obtained. The introduction of an expanded definition of a family is proposed, a definition of a single parent who raises his children alone is introduced. It is proposed that the monthly support for raising a child be terminated until secondary education is completed in all cases where the child for which it is obtained becomes a parent. It is envisaged that under certain conditions, if a minor parent continues to attend a regular school, he shall be entitled to receive lump sum aid corresponding to the amount of aid terminated. It is also regulated to return some of the aids received for childbirth, for raising twins, for raising a child from a mother-student and for adopting a child in the event that, until the age of 2 years, the child is placed outside the family, but only because of the guilty behaviour of the parent or the person who raises the child. With regard to the granting of one-off aid to student mothers to be paid in two equal parts, additional conditions are proposed - mothers should be recorded in a regular form of training at the date of birth of the child, not provided for and not received compensation for pregnancy, birth and child rearing under the Social Security Code. It is also intended to end the monthly support for raising a child until the completion of secondary education in irregular school visits or pre-school forms, which can be granted again not earlier than one year after its termination. A hypothesis for the recovery of the one-time assistance for students enrolled in the first grade is introduced in cases of irregular school attendance. It is also proposed the introduction of a monthly deprivation of aid to those who have not been given any good faith, but for a period of not more than one year. After a discussion, after the discussion and the vote with results were concluded, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy proposed to the National Assembly to support a first vote Draft amendment and supplement to the Family Aids Act for Children with the Importer of the Council of Ministers. And the latest report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Childrenq 554-01-88, submitted by Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov and a group of MPs on 13 May: On 20 May 2015, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Officer at a regular meeting held on 20 May 2015 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aids Act for children submitted by Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov and a group of MPs on 13 May 2015. The bill was presented by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front. According to importers, the proposed changes aim at improving the terms and conditions for granting family aid in order to provide better and targeted support for children in a family environment according to the principles laid down in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Child Protection Act. In the main focus of the measures proposed in the bill is the quest to prevent the phenomenon of children giving birth to children and the promotion of responsible parenting. One of the proposed changes suggests that the body that develops, coordinates and conducts state policy in the field of family aid for children should be the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is also intended to apply measures for protection in a family environment to pregnant women or mothers under the provisions of art. 23 of the Child Protection Act. For their part, receiving family benefits for children shall be bound by the performance of the duties of the parents or persons caring for the child under the provisions of art. 8 of the Law on the Protection of the Child, as well as the condition of the age of the parents. According to the introduction of a requirement for 18 years of age, the right of family assistance is envisaged to have: adult pregnant women - Bulgarian citizens; the families of the elderly Bulgarian citizens - for the children who are raised in the country; the families in which one of the parents is an adult Bulgarian citizen - for the children with Bulgarian citizenship who are raised in the country; the families of relatives, relatives or foster families of senior Bulgarian citizens - for the children who are accommodated under art. 26 of the Child Protection Act; adult pregnant women; foreign nationals; and families of adult foreign nationals who permanently reside and raise their children in the country if such aid is provided for in another law or in an international treaty to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country. The importers consider that the proposal to introduce an age threshold for obtaining family assistance for children is in line with Directive 2011/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the fight against sexual violence and sexual exploitation of children, as well as with child pornography, which was to be transposed by the Member States until 18 December 2013. A significant change in the established model of support for families with children is contained in the proposal to limit the receipt of family benefits to a third child including, and if twins or triplets are born after the second child, which, according to the proposed motives of the importers, promotes the development of the three-year model in Bulgaria. It is also envisaged that the concept of social investment implemented in 2006 should be replaced by the notion of property needed, which is defined as:.Inequential form of family support for raising children at the expense of the state budget provided as goods. After the end of the discussion and voting with results:......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly not to support the First Voting Draft amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 554-01-88, submitted by Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. The reports of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports will introduce us to the people's representative Ivan Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u82	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for children, No 454-01-11, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs On 27 October 2014, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No At its regular meeting on 21 January 2015, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aids Act for Children, No 454-01-11, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27.10.2014. The meeting was attended by Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Yanita Manolova, Deputy Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency, Bistra Zografova, State Expert at the Child Protection Agency, Georgi Bogdanov, Executive Director of the National Network for Children and other experts. National Representative Ivan Dimitrov presented the Bill. The members of the Commission were also acquainted with the written opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the State Agency for Child Protection, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and the NGO. All the opinions submitted reject the proposals in the Bill, stressing that they violate art. Art. 6 and art. 47 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Dimitar Shishkov, Petar Bekov, Dragomir Prodanov, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Agency for Child Protection and the NGO. During the discussion everyone united around the understanding that the birth of children from underage children is a deepening problem in Bulgarian society, which should be limited, but this cannot be achieved by discriminatory and sanctioning measures that directly undermine children's rights. After the discussion was completed and a vote was held with results: the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Family Aid for Children, No 454-01-11, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27.10.2014. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the The Family Aid Act for Children No 454-01-49, submitted by the MP Stefan Kenov and a group of MPs on 20 November 2014. At its regular meeting on 21 January 2015, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 454-01-49, submitted by the National Representative Stefan Kenov and a group of MPs on 20.11.2014. The meeting was attended by Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Yanita Manolova, Deputy Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency, Bistra Zografova, State Expert at the Child Protection Agency, Georgi Bogdanov, Executive Director of the National Network for Children and other experts. People's representative Stefan Kenov presented the Draft, stressing that the aim of the proposed amendments is that every Bulgarian child should receive children's supplements, regardless of the income of the parents, to encourage responsible parenting, as well as to stimulate birth rates with the perception of a two-year and trident model as a means of limiting negative demographic trends in the country. In this regard, importers shall propose in art. 7 of the Family Aid Act for children to remove the income criterion laid down in the provision of art. 4 of the same Law. The second proposal of the importer is in the same provision to regulate a higher amount of aid for the second and third children in the family. Paragraph 3 proposes that the Law should enter into force from 1 January 2015. The members of the Commission were also aware of the written opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the State Agency for Child Protection and the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. The opinions of the Agency for the Protection of the Child and the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria support in principle the philosophy of the proposal as a measure in the interests of children, but both institutions stress that its application is related to an assessment of the financial effect as well as the possibilities of the state budget for 2015 to secure it. After the discussion was completed and a vote was held with results:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Cholakov. Next dock.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u84	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the The Family Aid Act for Children No 502-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2015. At its regular meeting held on 27 May 2015, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed at the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 502-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2015. The bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin. According to the importer, the main motive of the proposed amendments and additions is to improve the effectiveness and purposefulness of family support, and the objectives set are to promote responsible parenting, greater social justice in providing family aid, as well as stronger support measures to third children. In order to promote responsible parenting, it is envisaged to systematise family aid by setting it at one-off and monthly and being provided in cash and/or in kind. The concept of help in kind shall be introduced. Another measure of equality in the provision of family assistance for children is the change of the definition of family for the purposes of the law, and the definition of a family is included in the definition of a joint parent without a civil marriage. During the discussion the MPs supported the philosophy of the Bill, stressing that the envisaged measures fully cover the objectives set in it to promote responsible parenting and curb abuse. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Family Aid for Children, No 502-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2015. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Children's Family Aid Act, No 554-01-88, imported by Dimitar Bayraktarov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 13 May 2015. At its regular meeting held on 27 May 2015, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed at first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 554-01-88, submitted by Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs on 13 May 2015. The bill was presented by Mr. Bayraktarov. According to the importer, the proposed changes lay down the main provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as the Law on the Protection of the Child. A significant change is binding the receipt of family benefits for children with the condition of adult age by the parents, as well as the fulfilment of their duties under Art. 8 of the Child Protection Act. The importers consider that these measures are in line with Directive 2011/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011. on combating sexual violence and the sexual exploitation of children, as well as child pornography, and can have a significant effect on overcoming the problem. It is intended that underage pregnant women or mothers will be subject to family protection measures under the provisions of art. 23 of the Child Protection Act. The critical remarks expressed are that the proposed changes create prerequisites for violation of citizens' rights and the introduction of a discriminatory approach in the legislative approach, contradict the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as a number of provisions of the Family Code. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results, the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports proposes that the National Assembly should not support the draft amendment and supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children, No 554-01-88, submitted by Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs on 13 May 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u85	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. We will now hear the reports of the Committee on Education and Science on two of the bills. They will be introduced to us by Mrs. Galya Zaharieva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u86	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Family Aid Act for Children, No 502-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2015. At its regular meeting on 3 June 2015, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children. The meeting was attended by: Lazara Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Krasimir Valchev, Secretary General of the Ministry of Education and Science, Elena Kremenlieva, Director of the Department of Social Studies, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Kamelia Nikolova, Director of the General Directorate of Child Rights at the State Agency for Child Protection, representatives of NGOs. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Deputy Minister Lazar Lazarov. According to the importer, the Bill sets three main objectives: improving the effectiveness of family assistance by stimulating and promoting responsible parenting, increasing the intensity of family support for a third child, which is in line with the government programme to be equal, regardless of the child's order, increasing social justice by changing the support of female mothers students in order to limit abuse in this area. The following discussion discussed the possibility that social benefits for children provided in kind can be distributed through educational institutions in order to improve the effectiveness of support and to keep children and students in kindergartens and schools. After the discussion was concluded and the results were taken:......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children No 554-01-88, submitted by the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs on 13 May 2015: At the same meeting, held on 3 June 2015, the Committee on Education and Science examined the bill submitted by colleague Dimitar Bajraktarov. The Committee on Education and Science received opinions from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the State Agency for Child Protection, the Center for Interethnic Dialogue and Tolerance, which do not support the bill, as well as comments and remarks from the National Network for Children and the Movement of Bulgarian Mothers. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov. The proposed changes in the law aim at providing better and targeted support to children. Limited persons entitled to family aid are introduced to be adult Bulgarian citizens, as well as to fulfil their obligations to care for children in accordance with the Child Protection Act. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs expressed their opinion that the proposed changes would lead to discrimination on the grounds of age for the birth of the child, as well as limiting the number of children in a family to be supported. Following the end of the discussion and the vote held with a result:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u87	We're about to hear from the importers. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Volen Siderov will speak first, as their bill is first at the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing amendments to the Family Aid Act for children who are in sync with not only the normal laws of nature, but also the Constitution and the Penal Code. You just heard the reports from the three committees, in which, to my great shock, the Child Protection Agency has spoken against our proposal. And what is our proposal? It is as follows: the right to family benefits have only 18 women, Bulgarian citizens, also the families of Bulgarian citizens, in which both parents are 18 years old for children who are raised in the country, the families in which one of the parents is 18 years old. This applies to children with Bulgarian citizenship who are raised in the country. That is, we want something very simple and very natural about mothers who are having children to be 18 years of age. At the moment you know that there are a lot of cases of birth of children from 12-year-old girls. And I am truly amazed at the opinion of the Agency for Child Protection, which has spoken against our proposal and referred to a member of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child as regards the supporting role of the State in helping parents and other children responsible for raising the child. I'm sorry, but who is responsible for raising a child born of a 12-year-old girl? Given that the Penal Code implies and sanctioned sexual relations with children from 14 years of age, they are necessarily punishable. How, then, is a mother who gave birth to 12 years old encouraged by the Agency for Child Protection? In fact, a child who gave birth as a result of an unknown relationship [[Elevator bell dings]] But it's not right for 12 to 13 to have 14-year-old children anyway. And this is considered normal by the State Agency for Child Protection, it is considered normal, as we see, by most parties from the ruling coalition and the committees are rejected without motives. The motives are lacking, but our reasonable proposal for child support to be given only to adult mothers is rejected. Many talk these days about problems with domestic or gypsy, or Roma crime, whatever we call it, it doesn't matter, there is a lot of talk and I listened on different media how commentators discuss this very issue that this is almost becoming a business in these communities. We have now the opportunity to end this vicious practice and thus to carry out real protection for the child, because, again, I am telling you, I will repeat it and I think there is no reasonable person, I do not know who would come out of this tribune to defend the thesis that 12-year-old girls should have children. Let someone who has voted against or abstained from the Commission, it is the same as coming out and defending this thesis. Let him say here on the stand, let him tell the media that 12-year-old girls should have children. Let us put an end to this vice in the Bulgarian society and thus show that we really care for the integration of these communities, which we call not. If we continue to encourage them to give birth to children at 12-13, integration cannot in any way take place. Because children who give birth to children can't be responsible for their upbringing. At the age of 12, I think there are enough parents here, no one can agree that you can be a responsible parent to raise a child. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we propose that you vote for the House, we propose that you accept these amendments and thus restore an injustice to the Bulgarian legislation, which enables in practice to break the law. Once again, there are texts in the Penal Code that sanction sexual relations with minors. How, then, do we view it as normal for minors to have children? You know, to give birth to them, for past sexual relations. So both logic and common sense suggest that we support this proposal and thus bring order to the demographics of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention, in the debates we will continue with other arguments. Thank you. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u89	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. We will now hear the second bill with importers Mr. Stefan Kenov and a group of MPs. Here you go, Mr. Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, our idea of amending the Family Aid Act for children is slightly different from the previous Member of the National Assembly. The idea comes from there.. Currently Bulgaria is in a demographic disaster. According to internal data and international data, mainly the CIA, who are involved in researching demographics around the world, we are one of the fastest disappearing nations in the world. After all, the Family Aid Act for children, purely historically, began its action in 2001. Until then in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian state were observed the so-called Children's Supplements. Children's supplements were replaced as an incentive measure in 2001, and by this Law they became social aid. At a time when the Bulgarian state needs the Bulgarian families to have more children, to develop, it is essential that the National Assembly, the whole state takes care of measures to promote birth rates. Many of us can say that 30 or 50 leva. are not something that can stimulate a family, but this is a view of the state, the necessary attention in which the state through the Republican budget lends its hand to the people who have decided to give birth and raise their children in Bulgaria. What people and what families are receiving family benefits under this Law today? These are the parents of 800,000 Bulgarian children whose income is low. The parents of 300,000, 400,000 Bulgarian children do not receive children's supplements because the average income of their families is slightly higher than that of the families they receive. For me there is a huge injustice because it is those parents who do not receive children's supplements, who do not receive social assistance under the Family Aid Act for children, who make their contribution to the Republican budget through their taxes. The issue is neither political nor can be colored as left, right, nationalistic and so on. In addition to this Bill, I can, with a pure heart, support the Law of fellow Members of the Patriotic Front, because their idea is actually the same, instead of offering monthly funds, to make tax relief. To a much greater extent, the issue has also been developed in the Draft Law of the Council of Ministers proposed by the Minister of Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Mr. Kalfin. The second thing we propose is that the bonus he has for a second child should be necessary for a third child, or for the real Bulgarian state to directly stimulate the tridette model. You know we have a negative growth right now. A Bulgarian couple at an age in which they can reproduce has about 1.6 children, which is below the minimum necessary, even for the preservation of the nation's numbers. So according to what the other bills have also heard, the imposition of the tridette model is inevitable. I will not ask you to explicitly support this bill that we have made. It was an important step for me to start the conversation, to start the debate that this Law after so many years needs a change, that it really needs to be sought to stimulate the birth rate and to do this in different mechanisms, and at the moment it is the easiest one. Please support at least one of the bills so that it can reach second reading. I am sure that with my colleague Bajraktarov and the group of MPs, and with the other parliamentary groups we can reach in the Commission a compromise option to be supported by everyone, so that every Bulgarian family who pays taxes that raises their children, educates them and educates them in the Republic of Bulgaria, has the full opportunity to feel equal with other families who do not have enough income to support themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u91	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. There is no representative of the Council of Ministers to present the third bill. We will now hear a presentation of the bill of Mr. Bayraktarov and a group of MPs. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection and Family Aid for Children submitted by the Group of the Patriotic Front is in fact the first draft on this serious and important topic, which I dare say, is first subject to protection of the rights of the child, is subordinate to Euro-Atlantic values, and thirdly is subject to two main elements, which have been spoken for a long time in Bulgarian society. In fact, these two main elements are healthy family environment and responsible parenting. What, however, dictated the drafting of this Bill and the search for serious expert assistance from both European lawyers and Bulgarian lawyers, so that the bill could be maximum legal support? It is a public secret that in Bulgaria we have seen for years an extremely unceremonious and serious drain of social funds. But that's not the scariest part. The scariest part is when the draining of these funds is exactly children. And something even scarier when this occasion for draining social funds creates an extremely unpleasant and dangerous phenomenon with which Bulgaria is starting to become famous throughout the world. [[Reply: "Which funds are being drained? "]] And this is the phenomenon of children giving birth to children. It is for this reason that we have created a bill which is bound first by the Convention on the Protection of the Child, which has been ratified by the Bulgarian State. More than that, even in art. 1 of this Bill we first mention the authority that is obliged to conduct state policy in this direction because until now such a body has not been identified in the Bulgarian legislation. This body is not someone else but, naturally, the Council of Ministers. He is the body that needs to organise and conduct this policy. Why, though, is the bill bound by the Convention on Child Protection? During the debates, the general opinion of all experts, of all the institutions that had drawn up opinions, was that the child had rights. It's a fact that no one can deny on any line. Yeah, the kid's a straight-up guy. Here are a few important things, because the draft we have drawn up is not only subject to the European Convention on the Protection and Protection of the Rights of the Child, but it is also subject to Directive 2011/92 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and this Directive was adopted in December 2011 and Bulgaria should have transposed the texts of this Directive back in 2013. Colleagues, notice, today we are 2015, but unknown why the directive has not been transposed into Bulgarian law. But let me brief you on why we have subjected the Bill to this European Directive. Because this European Directive is about combating sexual violence and the sexual exploitation of children. And what does sexual exploitation of children mean? Under the directive, sexual violence and the sexual exploitation of children, including child pornography, constitute serious violations of the fundamental rights of children. So far, current legislation on family aid for children was a hidden form of violation of children's rights, stimulating sexual exploitation with children. Colleagues, when I present this Bill to you today, I ask you: which of you will give me a Bulgarian law, a Bulgarian legal rule that allows sex with children? You won't find one. Moreover, to be correct with you and to be able to make your informed decision, in art. 2 of the same Directive there is an extremely important definition to which we have subjected our Law... the age for expressing consent to sexual acts. Age for expressing consent to sexual activity! Of course, no one will argue that under the Bulgarian law, under the Convention for the Protection of the Rights of the Child, every person under the age of 18 is a child. It's not just a child, it's, first of all, an incompetent person. Many children can't even make decisions, and very often they are misled. The most serious crime involved in the directive is the abuse of the trust of the child. Under this Directive, when sexual acts are carried out with children under the age of sexual consent, note the directive requires the most severe punishment for eight years in prison. Eight years in prison! I ask all those opponents who were very easy to talk about discrimination, what are you stimulating? Sexual exploitation with children?! The phenomenon of children giving birth to children?! Or do we have to fight this cruel problem that is escalating more and more in the Bulgarian state? Yes, in order not to be blamed, we have very accurately and clearly bound the Family Aid Act for children with the other active Bulgarian Child Protection Act. This is exactly what I'm talking about. 8 The wording for a responsible family is precisely and clearly regulated. Moreover, so that these children can not be children as we have seen and have shown us fellow journalists in not one or two reports.................. 23 of the Child Protection Act. Why did we tie the Law to art. Art. 8 and art. 23? Because these two articles of the Child Protection Act make it clear to us that no child can choose his parents. It's not guilty that someone lied to his mother-child to give birth to a child. Clearly, a 12-year-old kid who can play with dolls doesn't have the skills to raise a child. Should we turn a blind eye to that?! We can't be idle! We therefore bind the Family Aids Act to the Child Protection Act by allowing the Social Assistance Directorate to take care of the education of this infant child who bore a child; to teach him how to raise a child; to enable him to continue his education as provided for in the Law. Guys, is that a bad thing? Is this to be called "discrimination"? I don't agree! In the course of the debate, of course, we will hear many such talks, but this is the right way. The right way, because if I had to make a comparison, [[the President signals that time has run out]] with the bill of colleague Kenov, is it not discrimination to be harmed by social status over 400,000 children? Of course we can say it's discrimination. Thanks, guys. I hope that you will respond responsibly and support the Bill, which has indeed been done very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u93	The bill of the Council of Ministers will be presented after the break by Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Kalfin. Before announcing the holiday, honourable Members, each year on the third Sunday of June, millions of people in dozens of countries mark Father's Day. Despite cultural, religious and social differences, they are united by the desire to mark the important role that the father, grandfather, uncle and all children's men in the family circle have for their full development. At the initiative of Mr. Karadzhov of the Reformation Block in the space at the northern entrance of the National Assembly, an exhibition will now be opened, where I hope to learn more about the Day, the campaign and the importance of the fathers. All MPs are invited to the opening of the exhibition in the northern lobby. I'm announcing a 30-minute recess until 12.05. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u94	Honourable Members, we are continuing the plenary session. Please, the Quaestors, invite your fellow Members to the Chamber. We are left to hear the opinion of an importer on the Draft Law of the Council of Ministers, which is why there is also the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you go, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! What are the amendments to the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children who have been tabled by the Council of Ministers? He has two main objectives. The first objective is to improve incentives for the so-called responsible parenting and to use this help that is given to parents to raise children or to those who raise children to actually reach them to the children and not deviate for other reasons. Secondly, we are proposing measures that will allow to limit certain abuses that we have seen from the practice in recent years. In practice, we tighten the regime so that child support can actually go to those who need it most and those who meet the requirements of the law. The main purpose of family aid is, of course, raising children in a family environment. What are the measures we foresee? Regarding responsible parenting, we are talking here about the specific scope and subject matter of the law. We propose that the child should not be placed outside the family as a protection measure under the Child Protection Act, on the possibilities outside a specialized institution. There's an opportunity for foster families, adoptive parents and so on. It's normal to get them for a child they've accepted as a raise. Secondly, we are obliged that, if, within two years of birth, it is placed outside the family for parental care, parents who have received child care should owe it back to the State, which means that when responsible parenting is stimulated, the family should take care of the child and, after receiving the aid, not be taken out of its home or, if that happens, then the funds are due back. We are expanding the grounds for granting aid in kind. The new grounds are not to assist in the implementation of child protection measures and all cases of receipt of monthly support from underage mothers for children until one year of age and for children until secondary school is completed. This means that when underage parents come into question shortly ago and when presenting the other bills when underage parents receive aid, and we cannot stop child support when the parent is underage, then the parents of the underage parent will not receive child support. Of course, we also give an incentive if the underage mother completes her secondary education, she will receive those funds that did not receive the grandparents of the newborn child as an incentive for her birth at an early age and then continued and completed her secondary education. We foresee termination of monthly support for raising a child until secondary education is completed in all cases where the child for whom the assistance is received becomes a parent. Here again this statement.. when parents receive monthly child supplements for children and their child becomes a parent, then there is no reason, according to the changes in the Law, the grandparents to receive child benefits. After all, parents are responsible for their underage children. I hope that this measure will give more incentive and more opportunities to require these parents not to allow the early pregnancy and birth of children under age. We suggest that when a student who is enrolled in the first grade receives one single help and the child does not attend a regular school, this help should be required back from the parents. We propose that the cessation of monthly support for raising a child until secondary education is completed when it is terminated for three consecutive months or six months in the course of the school year to be terminated for one year. In practice, this tightens the requirements for sending children to school. I hope you'll agree that it's normal when a child doesn't attend classes for six months that he can't finish school. So when a parent has not sent his child for six months or three consecutive months, then his monthly child support will also be suspended. The condition for carrying out all mandatory immunizations and preventive examinations for the child is introduced as a condition for obtaining monthly supplements. In implementing a priority set out in the government's programme for a higher intensity of support for a third child, the Bill provides that one-off birth aids of the first, second and third children will be higher than the next children. One of the most significant changes in the Law is related to the determination of a total amount of monthly aid under art. 7 of the Family Assistance Act for Children, depending on the number of children for which it is obtained. This is a change compared to the current practice when an amount is granted for the first, second, third, fourth child. Now we're talking family with one, two, three or more children. This eliminates discrimination at least in definitions between children raised in the family. We also introduce a definition of the family. These are not only parents who have entered into a civil marriage, but also parents who actually live together, as well as single parents. With this, we eliminate the current discrimination of parents who have married and whose incomes are combined when calculating the income test whether to receive child support. Then, when there are parents who recognize their child who live together without marriage, they will already be under the same conditions as those who have married. For the sake of equality and greater justice, we introduce a single aid without a lucrative test when establishing in the country. Next, I have already mentioned that we are changing the definition and introducing the definition of a family, including a single parent. We make changes or propose changes to the one-time care aid for a child by a mother student, offering the condition that the mother is enrolled as a student in regular form of training at the date of birth, not being provided and not receiving compensation for pregnancy, birth and raising of a child under the Social Security Code, such as the assistance currently being BGN 2880 is not received once, but half at birth and half after recording the next semester. It has also become known in the media that for the five years in which this text works to assist female mothers, avalanches have increased the number and unfortunately a large part of them after birth and after receiving this help, which is nearly 3000 BGN, do not continue their education, which is considered one of the ways to drain funds. We introduce a definition of the concept of family aid, regulate the main functions of executive bodies, systematize family aid by setting one-off and monthly and being provided in cash or in kind. We are changing the concept introduced in 2006, where social investments are referred to as aid granted in kind. We are putting in place a penalty for deprivation of monthly family aid to those who have received them in bad faith. We introduce different fixes of deadlines, declarations, changes in terms and so on. Two more provisions that we accept as underage parents. One is that for underage parents, child support will be received in kind so that they can reach the child directly and the change I mentioned that the grandparents of the child or the parents of the young parents will not receive any more help. We propose that the Law should enter into force in two parts: from 1 July perhaps, depending on the admission to parliament, if necessary, we will change this date a little bit, but before the new session of the universities will enter into force the order to pay the aid for student mothers, and the main text of the Law to enter from the beginning of next year, respectively provided for by the State Budget Act. On some of the measures that have been proposed, I would just like to remind the MPs, as there is a discussion ahead that monthly aid for children and one-off aid is determined together with the State Budget Act. They are defined annually, do not enter into this Law, which rather gives the mechanisms, not the sizes and amounts that the family receives. So this is not the place to talk about how high children's supplements are, single, multiple for first, for second, for third child. These are decisions taken together with decisions under the State Budget Act for next year. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u96	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, Members of Parliament. Are there any colleagues who would like to speak on the bills? Here you go, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u97	Here you go, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In relation to the amendments presented to the Family Aid Act for children, we believe that the amendments to the Law for amendment and supplement of the Family Aid Act for children are directly directed to a particular community, which makes them unconstitutional according to art. Art. 6, Art. Art. 47, Art. 51 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thus, the proposed changes concern the poorest and socially backward strata of our society. In the stated motives of colleagues Volen Siderov and Dimitar Bajraktarov there is no economic logic to help the budget or to expect a higher social perspective. On the contrary, to deprive the poorest social strata of society of the minimum and only about 35 leva. Children's allowances is a prerequisite for a significant increase in the number of young people who would leave the country, going to other countries with far more encouraging social policy, such as Germany, Denmark, Britain and so on. Based on world practice in developed social and economic countries, namely when they were in crisis, the logical and proven approach is to take from the wealthy and the richest in the form of taxes, taxes, excise duties and others, while giving to the poor and the poorest by pouring more money into the social system to help the poorest. Promote responsible parenting. What promotes the responsibility of the extremely poor parent, after this proposal would take away the last and only 35 leva. to a child? How do you become a more responsible parent without a single penny of help from the state? For example, we can point to Western Europe, Germany, where the aid of a child is 184 euros per month, plus 140 euros parental allowance for a child, whether it is a minor or an adult mother, if the parents have income below the social minimum or a total of 324 euros per month for a child or a total of about 632 BGN. Bulgarian money, which is 18 times more than in Bulgaria. I consider it incorrect to amend art. 7, para. 1 monthly child support to be provided provided that the family and child live permanently in the country. This wording is incorrect in our view because how would be defined cases where children or parents travel abroad during summer or winter vacations for one, two or three months, or temporary residence of parents who are in seasonal work or some kind of training, and the requirement in some European countries is that the resident be registered for more than one month. For such reasons, we believe that social inspectors would experience huge difficulties in formulating and implementing art. 7, para. 1. Monthly assistance shall be terminated when the child for whom the assistance is received becomes a parent. We define this proposal as discriminatory, affecting a certain strata of Bulgarian society and unconstitutional according to art. Art. 6, Art. Art. 47, Art. 51 of the Constitution and contrary to European policy, the Convention on the Protection of Minorities and the European Charter on Human Rights. The practice in a number of European countries does not violate the rights of minors to receive aid. On the contrary, I will quote an example from Germany. Monthly aid for the first and second children is 184 euros, for the third child is increased to 190 euros, for each subsequent one it becomes even higher or 215 euros, and since 2008 to date it has increased by 20%. In other words, in view of the increasing trend of life in Western Europe, child benefits are increasing, with more than three children becoming about 15% higher, while in this case the proposals are in absolute contradiction with the well-established practice in Europe. Germany's Federal Labour Office officially grants to minors benefits for themselves, for the first and second children of 184 euros, for the third child this compensation is 190 euros, for the fourth and each subsequent 215 euros, and if the mother is single, she receives an additional 133 euros per month per child, and if the child is 5 years old.. 180 euros per month, with the maintenance of single parents until the age of 12 years of age of the child. Initially, underage mothers are not allowed to raise a child. That's why the Federal Bureau of Labour has special care for them, but they can request temporary school release if there's no other way to raise the child. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Since the beginning of 2009 in Germany, grandparents are also entitled to leave. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u99	Please be quiet in the hall. Mr. Bayraktarov, don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u100	We quote the practice in Western Europe and I think it is normal to have such a comparison. If their children give birth to minors or during school or training, in this case they may declare to their employer time for the so-called grandmotherhood. The Federal Ministry of Family, Men, Women and Youth provides additional funds for socially weak parents with income less than 900 euros for housing plus 140 euros per month child allowance. All this plus 184 euros a month for a child. According to the Federal Children's Aid Act of Germany, all this covers the average children's needs in a month. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] This is important statistics, colleagues. In addition, the Federal Child Aid Act of 1 January 2011 proposes the right to education compensation for all children. These include: day-to-day outings from school and kindergarten; multi-day trips from school and kindergarten; 100 euros per year for school needs; travel expenses for students; adequate school assistance; lunch provision at school, kindergarten or study hall. Also aid for participation in the social and cultural life of the community. Here we compare how much the social system in general cares to help children and their adaptation and socialization in general to the living environment. We believe that in our social system and in the Family Aids Act for children, and in the Pre-school and School Education Act, similar practices should be laid down and for the following year a budget for such initiatives should be provided. We would also suggest a change, according to practice in most European countries, the threshold for receiving monthly child support rather than graduating from secondary school, but not more than 20 years old, to change until the completion of secondary or higher education, but not more than 25 years old, i.e. by 5 years to increase the threshold, as is the practice in most European countries. We believe that this will create a prerequisite for promoting and increasing the number of young people graduating from secondary and higher education. The proposed changes would, in our view, create preliminary psychological stress in potential parents precisely because of this lack of feeling of protection and support from the state among the young generation in Bulgaria and this would lead to a significant reduction in birth rates. It makes no sense for a European country's social system to discriminate against a certain part of society. The main presumption of any social policy is to care for life, health, security, calmness, equality of all citizens, as ordered by the Constitution in art. 6: All people are born free and equal in dignity and rights. Well, if this is what we call responsible parenting, you would hardly encourage me to become a parent in Bulgaria! We do not, in principle, support or tolerate the birth of children from underage mothers, but we consider it wrong, when there are such cases, to condemn them, discriminated against and abandoned by the care of the state, because this leads to their even greater isolation in society. The statistics for 2013-2014 of the Social Ministry are as follows: registered mothers under the age of 16 - 1132 across the country. With seven million people, there's hardly any need for a new law for 1100 mothers. 16- to 18-year-olds, 3832. From these data we see that the number of underage mothers in the country is not great and is not worrying about the overall social policy in the country. In addition, data on the number of juvenile mothers is concentrated mainly in several regions in Bulgaria "Plovdiv, Sliven and Burgas." This is precisely why we believe that the proposed change is unnecessary, and the efforts and work of the experts should be focused mainly on formulating concrete proposals for the creation of at least one or two schools and kindergartens in specific areas where the concentration of minors and the abandoned by the school process is observed. We also propose that mobile centres should be created in the neighborhoods with mixed populations to conduct a health and educational explanatory campaign and to appoint young, educated Roma to them. This, in our view, would contribute only within 2-3 years of visible results or a reduction in the number of juvenile mothers by more than 70%. In conclusion, we propose to establish a working group of all parliamentary parties, together with the Social Ministry, to develop criteria and policy for preventive measures and actions of a health and educational nature, to minimise the number of minors in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u101	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u102	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Iliev, first of all I would like to tell you that according to the latest UN data, Bulgaria is in the first five of the number of children born from children - a practice that is inherent in the poorest countries of Africa and Asia. When you talk about 35 leva. Let us not forget that under the Family Aid Act, 17 types of aid are received for children. And today in Bulgaria there are 18-year-old mothers who have three children and receive more than 2 thousand. lv. a month's aid from the state, without taking up a gram of work. When you say that with the proposal of "Attack" is violated the Constitution, Mr. Iliev, this is absolutely false. Article 6 is very clear and precise. The discrimination you are talking about is also an argument that we cannot accept, because if you have read our proposal, you will see that we are offering to pay only child support to parents who have reached 18 years of age without defining their ethnic characteristics or origins. When we talk about child support payments, we are talking about all Bulgarians, Gypsies, Turks, Jews, all communities living in Bulgaria, so there is nothing to use this word for discrimination. Right now you're trying to get away with this fake argument. Here you used a sum of how many thousands of people received aid under the Family Aid Act for children. Here you are, from Ataka we have asked for an official answer how much the state spends on these family aids for children. For 2015, the underage parents you are talking about will take nearly 570 million out of the budget. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u104	You're talking nonsense! All children, not just minors!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u105	Here's the official answer. Then explain to me how 4,000 people get 570 million. lv. For a year? Let's imagine how much these people get a month. Apart from that, I can still see nearly 50 million for single-handed pregnancy, for single-handed childbirth. Almost 50 million more. lv. from the budget, i.e. the end is around 620. 30 million, which come out of the pocket of the Bulgarian taxpayer to legitimize the insanity of children having children and someone turning this into a business. You gave us an example of how social she was with Germany. Mr. Iliev, let me remind you what taxes are in Germany and there the business pays. In this regard, why didn't you support the proposal of "Attack" to increase taxes for the Bulgarian business, for the oligarchs to have more money for the social sphere? Why do we have to spend that 630 million? lv. for children who give birth to children who have turned this into a business and not give this money to the Bulgarian pensioner who has worked for 30 years?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u106	Mr. Todorov, please, you make a statement on the substance, take the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u107	I'm considering it. That's what I want to graduate with, colleagues. What we are proposing at Ataka is precisely and clearly that a parent does not have 18 years of age not to receive child support, thus not to burden the budget, to stop the insanity of children having children, to come out of this humiliating statistic in which we find ourselves, the top 5 in the world. In the world!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u108	Please navigate towards completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u109	That's what I wanted to tell you so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u110	Thank you. Second line, Mr. Veselinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I absolutely cannot agree with my colleague Iliev's statement for several reasons. First of all, a referee on the topic of social assistance in Germany is perhaps nice to be exported to the slums in order to properly guide users of social aid where to navigate. However, as a result of their proper orientation, we are talking about problems in the Schengen area and claims of certain of our partners in the European Union regarding the behaviour of our Roma. I must point out that, as a result of this fine social policy, Germany is talking about a revision of the multicultural model, as it is already giving there, in this overdeveloped and cultural-homogeneous state, its negative results. However, we are talking about Bulgaria and we need to solve Bulgarian problems. Every policy must be aimed at the objectives and the expected results. At the moment we have a boom of birth rates in the marginal layers of birth, primarily aimed at draining social funds, towards making birth into a profession, in some form of parasitism on the social organism of the state, which no normal country can afford. Yes, there really should be restrictions in every policy, and there should be incentives. Everything that my colleague says about health care in these areas and so on, about the extra efforts in education, is true. However, we need to start from the lack of incentive for this condemned from every point of view phenomenon children give birth to children. This formula has been repeated hundreds of times here, however, it is really difficult to explain what we are when we are first on this indicator in Europe, far before the second. In this regard, my call is to support the draft laws of both the Council of Ministers and the Patriotic Front, which solve the problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u112	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Third line, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u113	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! I am provoked by the enthusiasm with which every time we try to solve Bulgaria's Roma problem, someone comes out here and starts telling us what it was like in Europe. I have just made a whole memorial, a table with the fact that, for a first and second child in Germany, 184 euros are given for a third one, 190 euros. We heard in summary, of course, and in Mr. Iliev's interpretation of several federal laws, we kind of have to learn from them. There is a great historical injustice here. I would especially like to remind the DPS party that once, quite recently, there were many, many Gypsies in Western Europe, or Roma, if you prefer, much more than they were in the Balkans. But the Western societies that you are quoting as an example have always solved their Roma problem with extremely radical technologies. For example, loading the Roma population on ships and landing them somewhere in the Caribbean. In Bob Marley's blood, Mr. Iliev, there's as much Negro as there's gypsy blood. Between 1933 and 1945 the Roma population in Western Europe fell sharply. The process, as I recall, was called the Porimos, and you must know what that means. Thus the Roma problem of Western Europe, if you allow me to serve with the slang of this increasingly distant era, was finally resolved. You do realize that once they've decided that they've made a final decision, they wouldn't want to make it a second time now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u114	Mrs. Tasheva, take the time, please. It's been two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u115	A few more sentences. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Which is why we're looking at mass deportations, splintering gypsy catatoons, hygienicizing and disinfecting the place with fire. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just for a moment, I'm graduating. While in the process "Poraymos" in Germany destroyed their Roma population, in Bulgaria, 1934 Roma published their own magazine "Tebrier" which means education. So they're not the ones who have to serve us as an example.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u116	You have an opportunity in speaking mode to explain all this. You've got plenty of time on the band limit. Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. A hole, please, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague, I would like to ask you, when you are using figures and data that you are referring to from the National Assembly's stands, to do an inspection, because for 2015 we have 570 million by budget. lv. for all nine kinds of aid. These are not aids for underage mothers or whatever, this is the budget for all kinds of aid. This is how when false data is given in society, with radically different numbers, it motivates hatred and negative sentiments in society. About what the coworker said. Colleague, the fact that you mentioned was characteristic of the 19th century. It's the 21st. Apparently, if in a previous life in the 19th century you lived in that time, you miss it. Please come to your senses, it's the 21st century! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u118	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov, for a personal explanation. Your name was mentioned in the speech of the MP Iliya Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take a personal explanation for several reasons and mention my name in the gentleman's statement. The first reason is that the gentleman obviously confused the Bulgarian National Assembly with the Bundestag. The second reason is the unjustified suggestion in the statement of racism, of discrimination. Moreover, we have seen an enviable knowledge of aid in Germany. Perhaps this gentleman applies this scheme well and certainly directs certain groups to Germany to benefit from these aids?! However, misses another small detail, colleagues, I do not know which groups he is talking about, but the same ones have become an excuse for Bulgaria to be tarnished in all the world media. These groups, which he's probably talking about, have pitched tents, tents and ghettos in the Bolognese Forest, in parks in Germany. Then they returned them to us these same groups here, and not only here, but carried them to all the world media to denigrate Bulgaria. So I took a personal explanation, because apparently some gentlemen are taught only to speculate and the worst by putting emphasis on ethnic basis. Then do not wonder why, putting the emphasis on ethnic basis in certain areas of Bulgaria began to erupt riots precisely on ethnic basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u120	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Delchev, you wanted a statement by procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! On the basis of art. 61, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure request a recess of 30 minutes on behalf of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u122	You have no right. It hasn't been an hour. [[Noise and lines. Details between the President Tsetska Tsacheva and the National Representative Dimitar Delchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u123	Any other MPs for a statement? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we are discussing three bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u125	Four.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u126	Yes, along with the Council of Ministers. The debate so far is being conducted lively between bill importers and one of the parliamentary groups that opposes them. I think the big parties should not stay away from the debate, which seems somewhat uncomfortable at all times. I think if he's allowed to polarize in the way he's done, we won't find enough convincing solutions from him. Firstly, I think that some of the submitted bills raise legitimate questions, but we need to clarify the prerequisites well enough to get to solutions that can contribute to solving existing problems, a reason to submit the bills. First of all, we believe that to a much greater extent we should socialise the debate, not ethnicize it. I do not deny that he has ethnic projections, but I think that if we further sharpen him as an ethnic problem, we will miss the main content and direction in which we can achieve successful solutions. Secondly, we need to know whether the participants in the debate accept the principle of responsible parenting, because we cannot just talk about the rights of children, but talk about stimulating the upbringing of children when this is accompanied by responsible parenting and not just the biological fact of childbirth. If there is an agreement on this, I think this will also lead us rationally to finding solutions. The third starting point is that much of the questions raised will not be sufficiently resolved only with the proposed measures if we do not discuss the subject more widely and we do not conclude that it is necessary to change taxation and to introduce family income tax. As you well know, family income taxation in any case implies a transition to progressive taxation. Since these essential issues are not raised, therefore the debate is stuck and the decisions proposed, even if they are adopted, are sporadic, because here the financial expressions are not the main ones. I agree with the fact that the adoption of these measures will not have a significant financial effect on the budget, but I think we should be guided by what is the principle of the decision and not whether the measure covers a wider or narrower circle of persons. From the point of view of the budget, it will not bring significant budgetary savings effects, and on the other hand, it is not impossible if certain costs are also made. I propose that in the further discussion, if the bills or some of them are adopted at first reading, perhaps that of the Patriotic Front is closer to the idea, not to connect assistance to the completion of the age, but to establish the rule that a person who has given birth to a child has already acquired civil emancipation and cannot be treated as a child to receive his parents' benefits because he is a minor. I think that should be said clearly! For example, in the field of family relations, the age is 18 years, but under certain circumstances,... with the permission of the competent authorities, marriage can also be concluded at the age of 16. Then these individuals acquire full capacity and are already treated as parents and not as children. This must be clearly established. I say again: not so much the fact of age, because it is formal, but it may be that a person can give birth before the age of 18, which not only biologically but also socially permissible, but it must be able to raise its child. Again, in any case, regardless of age, parents of a parent cannot receive support for raising children.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u127	You can't do that now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u128	Well, again, we need to confirm that here. This circumstance is clear. In addition, another fact goes around that sexual relations with a minor are punishable. I ask because it doesn't matter here whether there is an agreement of either side or both, how many cases are wanted, because it is not so difficult to do, and to sanction such persons? This is irresponsible in terms of minors. Particularly with the accelerated acceleration, they have relevant attractions and attitudes, but others who must be responsible for their development and behaviour must bear this responsibility. In addition, there are many cases where, although the father is known, there is deliberately no marriage in order to fall into a more appropriate category of social assistance. This, especially among the Gypsy population, is a well - known father, even in some cases taking care of the woman who gave birth to the child and the child itself, but deliberately do not marry in order to benefit from the respective opportunities. In my opinion, if we are aware of all these problems and encourage responsible parenting, we can take this step on the subject. With regard to Mr. Kenov's Bill, I think we should not force ourselves to accept that every single family will benefit from childbirth support, because in the end it will be unfair, because the total mass of funds that are allocated for such assistance means that we will be forced to lower the amount of aid. I suggest that the available income be raised every year so that more parents can be raised, and now I think that there are about 70 or over 70% of them receiving support, that is to say that we can achieve an even higher percentage,
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u129	Eight hundred thousand children.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u130	Yeah, like an absolute number, but I say them as a percentage. But, agree, let us also address the questions to ourselves... Should we, with the salaries we receive, receive these thirty levs for raising a child? There are other people in Bulgaria who receive salaries of several thousand leva. For me it is best for the state to concentrate its policy on those who need assistance and not on the principle: every child is Bulgarian and therefore give to those who are millionaires the state to give several tens of leva support. This, first, is irrational; second, it is hypocritical. True social justice and economic rationality suggest that we expand the circle of those who benefit from State aid, but not to the extent that we damage those who need assistance, at the expense of a clearance, that they will all receive an amount that you well know is far from reaching for the raising of a child. And the last question we need to think about is where is the formal limit to what we call responsible parenting. I do not think that a person with average income or family can afford to raise more than two or three children, because if someone has multiple children, he should be wealthy enough to raise them. Is it because is it possible for anyone to think about feeding, about dressing, about the education of an countless number of children? That is, we need to create a culture that already implies both in education and in living conditions, and for work to find what is optimal for the development of the Bulgarian nation, again I say. This, of course, also requires the actions of other institutions, not only of the family, but, again, these are real questions that people are talking about. And here the quest for some excessive political correctness in speech, or bringing the debate to extreme limits, in both cases, is harmful. We are facing severe demographic problems, severe social problems and the subject concerned is only a small fragment of this topic. That is why I propose to the Social Ministry, the Government and the National Assembly to put this topic in the much wider framework of social and demographic policy and let this debate and decisions on it at least be a small contribution in order to come up with much more ambitious solutions which today place only a small part of the topic in a somewhat controversial way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u131	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Before the speeches, on the occasion of the request of the MPs from the group of the Reformation Block for interruption, according to art. 61, para. 2, last sentence, the Interval between two interruptions may not be less than one hour. After the break at 11:35, the work was resumed at 12.05, that is, no earlier than 13.05. 61, para. 1, t. 2, the third sentence that the meeting cannot be interrupted earlier than one hour after its start and later than one hour before the closing of the working time. And since the working hours, according to our Rules, will be completed at 2:00 p.m., there is no way to respect the request of colleagues from the Reformation Block to interrupt the work of the National Assembly. A line to Mr. Stoilov? Here you go, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u132	Thank you, Madam President. I'm glad I heard a lot of logical things from my colleague Stoilov. However, in relation to the issue that you have addressed, about sexual activity, of course, this is a very serious topic. In my opinion, this is a very separate topic from aid, from aid for children and so on, because if we go quite logically, if there is to be serious monitoring of sexual activity among young people, does this mean that we should put a police officer in every gynecological office and where abortions are made, to be convicted, to be prosecuted and to have criminal proceedings against them? In our opinion, there is much to be done on this subject, but it is quite separate from what we are commenting on at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u133	Second line? Mr. Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u134	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stoilov, I do not think it is hypocrisy or anything else that we have proposed that every Bulgarian family should receive this family's help. Perhaps you remember the period much better than I do until 2001, when every Bulgarian child in every Bulgarian family was entitled to such an incentive. I regret that the debate on the amendment of this Law has become an opportunity to sanction a certain group of society, to impose such a sanction on them, for giving birth at an earlier age. For me, the idea of this Law should be another is encouraging Bulgarian citizens, the Bulgarian nation to reproduce and give birth to more children. I'm sorry we brought this debate to this point, but I would urge you to consider the rest of it. Yeah, it's not good to be born in a very early childhood. There are administrative authorities, there is a judicial system to deal with crimes against minors. Let us focus on this Law as a tool for promoting birth rates in Bulgaria. Not only me, but I think you all remember when these were really child benefits and received from all Bulgarian children without regard to their parents' incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u135	Third line? Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u136	Since Mr. Stoilov's statement began with the fact that the big parties should take positions, I am absolutely in agreement with this and I was delighted with this statement, only that I did not see a clear position. In Mr. Stoilov's ten-minute speech, I did not see a clear position on how exactly the group of BSP left Bulgaria to vote on the submitted proposals. That's not the answer I heard. However, we have witnessed an internal logical contradiction, Mr. Stoilov. You said the birthing mothers' age was a formality. Excuse me, then why, as one of the members, do I know that you have participated in the drafting of the Constitution, the main Law, which now operates in the Republic of Bulgaria, why does it say that only persons over 18 have the right to vote? Why didn't you bet a vote to have a 12-year-old? You must have had something in mind. And as for the responsibility you speak of, liability by law does not apply. There's no way. Children and adolescents can be taught responsibility, and now when they become parents, only if they teach faith in school. However, you, after a term of office, rejected this opportunity, did not give this opportunity, and now you are still against it. In the Commission, your representatives have spoken against and abstained from our proposals. It's about not paying underage mothers child benefits. Why? Explain this to make it clear what your position is as one of the major parties in this House. I expect from GERB to hear an opinion, position, do they accept our proposal and the proposal of the Patriotic Front, which is largely covered by our views, that is, the demand to have a limit, to have an age at which parents are recognized as parents and to pay them allowances. Everything else is a game, a Jesuit game and speculation with the subject, but it does not give opportunities. We as legislators can set this limit. Responsibility, moral orders are a question of upbringing, and education, as I said, is a matter of belief and other subjects to be introduced, for which we also hold. As for stimulating and saying two words, it is also an issue on which we can think. We have ideas. We have, for example, written such an idea when receiving parental education, or at least one of them, to sharply stimulate the allowances to be uploaded. This already means that we will stimulate the birth of more children, but in educated parents, because responsibility is also linked to education. If you can't read and write, who will teach you responsibility?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u137	A hole, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary! I think the lines have given us an opportunity to clarify the positions. Mr. Iliev, yes, the subject of sexual activity, sexual upbringing has its own meaning, but it also matters to the subject under discussion. And why not assign the Agency for Child Protection, among other activities, how effective it is to monitor for all births at an unacceptable age and, if necessary, to alert the authorities to carry out checks? There's nothing wrong with that. Regarding Mr. Genov's line. I would support it if there was an initiative to propose at the latest from the beginning of the next budget year to significantly increase the amount as income per person from the family of 350 BGN. and to be made at 450 leva. or with appropriate estimates. This will have a much greater effect, I assure you, and not just to raise the slogan "Every child with help." Because what are we going to do with these 35 or 50 levs by giving them to a wealthy family, provided that we thus support both the poorest and the richest in the same way?! Would you raise a child with 35 or 50 levs to say that it would stimulate families to have children? So let's go the other way. It is much fairer and more economically rational to raise this income in which to practically cover almost all the needy families, except for a few percent who will not perceive this as an incentive, nor do they need such modest assistance. Of course, from then on, an increase in the absolute amount of support funds. The third measure I have spoken about is the introduction of the principle of family income taxation. Then a significant social impact can indeed be achieved. And regarding Mr. Siderov's line. I mentioned in my speech that perhaps the Law of the Patriotic Front mostly covers the subject and if it is supported in principle, which I think is possible, then clarification can be made. But I gave you the example of the 18-year-old, not that it is not suitable for this age as a foundation, but if a person has given birth between 16 and 18 years of age, when this has happened in a fully acceptable way I'm telling you to be a little closer to life and not set such absolute limits. I do not question your thesis as a guide, but I say that life is more diverse and we need to be closer to it in order to reflect all socially justified cases where legislation must provide support for responsible parenting. The theme of faith is a separate topic. That's why I don't want to mess with her. It can contribute, but you are talking about faith, and the question will immediately be asked whether this should be an opportunity for training on selected religions by children. You know that different religions have conceptual views on the issue of family and so on. Finally, I think there are other secular opportunities to acquire upbringing. So I deliberately didn't open this subject. I think it's a little limited your approach to her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u139	There's a word for it, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u140	Thank you, Madam President. I want to thank my colleague Yanaki Stoilov. For me, you are a respected lawyer, first of all, and thank you for being very specific in the philosophy of the Law of the Patriotic Front. You're absolutely right that today we have no right to look at things in black and white hairs. That's the wrong approach. There is no reason why in our Bill there is not a single word to qualify people, children, mothers on some ethnic level. The first philosophy is for an authority and that is precisely why we are introducing for the first time an authority to conduct a state policy. Because it is our responsibility to create conditions for the children of Bulgaria to be not just citizens of this country, but worthy, educated members of this society. And you very rightly noted what is the point of stimulating some random birth of children who then become marginal groups of people who are uneducated, creating criminal groups?! We have no right to create conditions and even to think of an incentive for such marginal groups. We have to counteract this thing in any way we can. That's why we're betting on this three-year model. And I am the father of three children, and I absolutely agree with you, Mr. Stoilov. Thirty-five leva is not even enough for one child's diapers in half a month. It's not even enough! Any normal person who, at least in a little while, has made an effort to understand this philosophy should know that there is no economic and budgetary effect to be sought here. Here we are looking for, first of all, state policy, second of all, the creation of an educated society, a society that will be useful in the labour market tomorrow, will be useful for business, for the state. I absolutely agree with you that family taxation must be introduced. As you have experienced, so have we experienced in this direction. I am convinced that, sooner or later, Members of Parliament will understand that this is the right approach. I just want to pay attention to a few important things. We can't just turn a blind eye to the fact that for years we have witnessed the draining of social funds. We can't turn a blind eye to the sexual exploitation of children. Yes, you have affected an opportunity that gives the Family Code. I'll allow myself to correct you a little bit, that when a person who is not a minor receives the right and is given permission by the district court, first of all, to marry, he does not get the right to full power. It receives a partial capacity which is expressed in being able to sign and enter into a civil marriage. That's as far as his ability goes. That is why I have supported in the Commission the Law of the Council of Ministers because today I will not allow myself to enter into speculation there are good things that, together with the Law of the Patriotic Front as a united bill, can make a really modern, well-functioning Family Aid Act for children. I would recommend that Mr. Kalfin take a closer look at the opportunities for giving aid to students. Somehow you know that everyone can go to Bulgaria today and sign up as a student, even at a private university, and as such receive little help. You know that, and I am making a correct clarification. It is good to think in this direction. I would advise you, if we should think together about the so-called "helps in kind" that you have bet in your Bill and aid in the form of needed items. At first glance, a lot of people will think there's no difference, but believe me, there is a huge difference. Over the years, we have seen not one or two cases of abuse of aid, which so far took the form of a social investment. Guys, remember, we've had a lot of cases that have been broadcast in the media about how infants were given pickles and green beans in the form of aids. No one could explain the pickles that would help the child. It is for this reason that we used the world practice in the preparation of our Bill, which I do not claim to be perfect in any way. If Jesus Christ stands here today, we may find something to charge him with. However, the need for things is the right one, because that is why we are binding the Bill and the Child Protection Act. I won't talk much today. [[Elevator bell dings]] I will simply invite fellow MPs to support the Patriotic Front Bill, to support the Council of Ministers' bill. Personally, I will also support the Law of the Party "Attack". I had to defend their bill in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, even though I said that's where the work needs to be done. In a complex as a joint bill all disabilities can be cleared. We will also support our colleague Kenov's bill. However, it gives us the opportunity to debate precisely on the subject of family and income taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u141	- What's the line? There aren't any. To speak, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u142	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ageing population and low birth rates in Europe and Bulgaria make more and more significant policies and measures that create and implement governments and parliaments in individual countries to support parents and children. I welcome the efforts of the Council of Ministers and Members of the National Assembly to bring improvements to the legislative framework which regulates support for children and families in Bulgaria, although my views in this direction differ with the views of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. These views do not include, for example, the freezing of 14 social payments, including the money for raising children from the second year of maternity, freezing the level of child benefits and so on. My expectations for the Minister were rather that his first steps would be in the direction of encouraging measures for raising birth rates and from here the first steps to overcome the demographic problem and improve the demographic picture of Bulgaria, whether it be financial incentives or other adequate proposals in this direction. The first step is the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children, in which, of course, there is nothing wrong, all the more so that this Bill attempts to solve a problem of support in Bulgaria, which has a strong public response. It is no secret that raising children has become a major source of income in part of minority groups, and even things have reached the point that children begin to give birth to children to provide income. Undoubtedly, the Bulgarian social support system needs a number of structural and legislative changes that will help improve both public services and optimize public spending. Very serious is the pen to pay monthly child support until their secondary education is completed. The 2015 budget provides, if I am not mistaken, for around 400 million. BGN, without bringing any adequate results. The proposal of the Council of Ministers for amendments to the Family Aid Act for children declares objectives such as improving the effectiveness and better focus of family support, supporting responsible parenting and encouraging parents to provide enough good and adequate care for children. These are all noble goals, and on top of that, they're up-to-date. I would like to see that these objectives are part of a comprehensive vision if you would be a whole philosophy of family policy in Bulgaria; in the context of tackling the demographic crisis, combating poverty and social exclusion. I miss the overall vision of family politics in the country, and if you want it to be right, neoliberal or any other, but to have it to have a discussion so that we can move forward to improving the welfare of families and children. The bill of the Council of Ministers and the others cannot in any way claim to give such a vision. I cannot help but point out that there are no positive measures and the proposed measures are rather, if I may say so, of a criminal nature, and this is contrary to the basic idea of social assistance. If we follow this basic idea, the measures should be more supportive. The proposed measures have positive elements, but they would hardly have a significant effect on child welfare, for example, and others would even harm it. It is obvious that the objectives of the Bill are not having an effect on child welfare, but rather a direct path for abusers. In other words, the use of the stick and not the carrot is chosen, although I think the other approach would be more effective. Colleagues, so you don't get the impression that I'm just criticizing, I'm also going to say a few positive things about the Council of Ministers' Bill. In it I see proposals, much of which have been our proposals back in time, which for one reason or another have not been realized. I would say that in the proposals I see serious intentions in order to promote responsible parenting, in support of raising the child in a family environment, and in particular to achieve greater social justice in determining and providing family assistance. I also see positively in the proposal to extend the grounds for granting aid in kind and services when this determines the social worker and which guarantees that they will benefit the child, and not as is the practice at the moment, to benefit from other needs in the family or outside the child. I also positively appreciate the more specific approach provided for in the support of underage mothers and compulsory measures for protection in a family environment under the Child Protection Act and the intervention of the Agency for Child Protection. I also find it positive that the texts for the recovery of aid received improperly under this Law as a new step in the good undertaking that we had introduced in 2006 when family aid was bound by a visit to a school that worked, but subsequently a search for loopholes to overcome this restriction began. Returning aid is absolutely impossible as a process in my opinion, and there is no way to guarantee this return given the status that the families who received these aid illegally have. What are we going to get these parents when they are fully supported by welfare? Taking into account the current situation, the dynamics in public relations, the public sensitivity on this topic in recent times and the need to give an adequate response to the new challenges, in principle, I support the idea of changing and reorganising certain situations in the Family Aid Act for children, and that is precisely with the reasons set out in the Bill. I will support the Bill at first reading with the clear awareness that this is not the best proposal, and I will support it with a little disappointment. When I listened at the beginning of February to the minister of press conferences and other appearances, I decided that something revolutionary and radically changed the system, and it turned out that these were basically cosmetic and palliative changes with unclear results, including whether it would have a financial effect, even though it was not pursued with this Bill. Without commenting on the rest of the bills, I will say that they are getting away with my views on solving the problems they are dealing with. I see some contradictions in them with the Constitution, with the Family Code, with the Child Protection Act. Not to say that there are also some unacceptable and extreme proposals such as limiting aid to families with more than three children. I therefore refrain from expressing my support for them. I also do not think that with the current debate we will exhaust the theme of policies and measures in support of families, parents and children, at least because all changes projects do not cover the whole problem and, as I have already said, do not present a comprehensive vision for family policy in Bulgaria, as we need at a time of demographic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u143	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Ademov. Extend group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, there are four laws to amend and supplement the Family Aid Act for children. I would like to thank all my fellow Members that this discussion on this extremely hot and important topic relating to family aid for children is taking place calmly, which means that we have all realised the importance of these bills. My fellow Members, first of all, I would like to begin with the fact that all nine directions and all aid under this law are financed exclusively and solely at the expense of the state budget. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u145	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u146	One large part, namely four of these directions, has an income criterion, and the rest do not have such requirements. What I would like to point out is that the starting point for solving the family aid issue for children is several documents. First of all, the United Nations Convention, which has been ratified by the Grand National Assembly. Other legal documents are the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, where the rights of the mother woman are visualized. The responsibilities that the state has towards the mother woman. Dear colleagues, I would like to start with the first Bill, and it is with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. It proposes to introduce an age threshold for receiving family benefits for children in pregnancy, childbirth and child rearing up to one year. Colleagues, we must not confuse one-off aid, monthly aid and aid under state social security. Because when we make an amalgam of all these aids, then we get the number that Mr. Todorov was talking about just now. These benefits don't come every month. These are aids which are different in nature, different on their grounds and different on access to this support. I mean, underage and underage mothers are nearly 5,000 out of all 800,000 children or 600,000 families who receive this support. Now, suddenly, to concentrate on this group of Bulgarian citizens, in my opinion, is not correct enough, because we need to look at the problem of family support in a comprehensive way. I also want to say a few things that relate to the Constitution and Mr. Yanaki Stoilov knows her very well. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 of this Constitution is said that family, motherhood and children are under the protection of the state. Support is conditioned by the presence of a child in the family, not by age. Because if we rely on the argument age, that means we are entering the field of discriminatory texts, because the supporter is the child, not the mother. The basic right of the child is to this support. The age criterion is already entering the field of discriminatory texts. I would like to say that for 2014 1329 are underage mothers who have received support under this law. The underage mothers are 4233. I would like to make it clear here that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is categorically against the phenomenon of children giving birth to children. We do not believe that this phenomenon can be resolved through discriminatory and sanctioning measures, which are proposed in the Law of a political party "Attack" and on the Patriotic Front. These are categorically discriminatory measures that we cannot support. Regarding the bill of colleague Stefan Kenov. Dear Mr. Kenov, 600 thousand families in Bulgaria are receiving the so-called benefits. There must be a distinction between aid. For 800,000 children of nearly 1 million. And 200,000. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. And 300,000. Children in Bulgaria 800 thousand are those who receive monthly aid; 330 thousand are the families with one child who receive such support; 216 thousand are the families with two children; 29 thousand, notice, are the families with three children. And those for whom the project of the Patriotic Front says that they are not entitled, on their view, to monthly benefits with 4 and over 4 children, are only 12 thousand of these 600 thousand families. Only 12 thousand families in Bulgaria have 4 and more children. In the 2015 budget, I would like to repeat what colleague Iliev said, 570 million. lv. are allocated to all types of family support for children. Of that 570 million. About 400 million. are for monthly child support only. If we want to accept Mr. Kenov's proposal, which removes such a criterion, then we need to find another 250 million to meet that requirement. Regarding the draft of the Council of Ministers, I would like to say that there are several positive measures that we will support, but in general, emphasis is placed on the sanctioning and disciplinary measures, and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms supports the measures that are linked to assistance in the earliest childhood, so that poverty and social exclusion are not transmitted from generation to generation, so that poverty, poverty and illiteracy can not be transmitted from generation to generation, because this is the basis of the fact that these Bulgarian citizens subsequently become outcasts of the labour market and rely solely on state support. That is, early childhood intervention through education and covering of all Bulgarian citizens in different forms of pre-school and school education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. - What's the line? Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u148	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! My line to Dr. Ademov is this. According to the phenomenon, children give birth to children. You disagree with our concept, with our thesis. You're a liberal, you have another philosophy and so on. The point is that you do not say how to solve this phenomenon, and it exists and needs to be solved. Since I'm not making a statement, but just a line, I'll tell you this. Once you confess the existence of social nomadism, such as the gypsies in Bulgaria, and on this issue there is a lot written, there is no way only with the carrot to force them to start changing this social nomadism in order to integrate into society. I don't know a European country where gypsies are more or less integrated and I haven't heard from a gypsy, unless he's educated, he wants to be integrated. They just don't want to, and it's part of their value system, no matter what you criticize me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u149	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Second line again from the same parliamentary group
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u150	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Ademov, you said that the proposal of the Ataka, which makes a proposal that parents who are not over 18 years old, should not receive benefits under the Family Aid Act for children... You called this discrimination. In this regard, would you answer me discrimination that the 16-year-old Bulgarian does not have the right to vote? Do we discriminate against him? In this regard, would you still answer me a 14-year-old who wants to drive a car, but legally, he has no right to be 18 years old? Are these people discriminated against in the way of your logic? When you say that you are against sanctioning measures, let us remove the Penal Code and there are no sanctions! Against whom discrimination? This is where you use art. 6 of the Constitution, which speaks absolutely nothing of our proposal and it does not contradict. If it contradicts, please come out, tell me what exactly... read art. 6 of the Constitution, and tell me which one. There's no such thing. Then, when you talk about the fact that these aids are made for children, under the Family Aid Act for children, this is absolutely false every month, Mr. Ademov. Article 2 I am reading to you, para. 7: Monthly benefits for raising a child until one year of age. Article 2, para. 6: Monthly benefits for a child until secondary education is completed, but not more than 20 years of age. And who, however, receives this aid of 620 million per year for 2015 is said very clearly art. 4: Law of Family Aid under art. 2, para. 1, 6-8 have families and pregnant women with an average monthly income of a family member for the previous 12 months not lower than the income determined for the purpose of the State Budget Act. I mean, the ones who are unemployed. Because when a family has a total income of about 500 leva. It shall not be entitled to these 10 types of aid per month. So, please, do not speculate on the facts and circumstances, there is nothing discriminatory about the proposal that makes "Attack." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u151	Third line? Here you are, Mr. Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u152	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs! Mr. Ademov, let me disagree with your thesis, because you say that you do not agree and strongly do not support the idea of children giving birth to children. You said there were 5,000 cases like this. Even if it is 500, the truth is that these cases violate the Bulgarian legislation. There can be no discrimination when the Bulgarian legislation is violated. So in this respect, with your proposal, you are in fact stimulating cases where a number of Bulgarian laws are being violated, not least, even in the Constitution, are written. So in this regard, Mr. Ademov, you are going to protect the children who give birth to 12 new children. That's what you're doing right now! Twelve years. Mr. Ademov, let us not forget that I have worked among such groups and there are indeed many cases. I've been in Stolipinovo for six years, I've been in every house, and there's really a lot of cases, I've been a psychologist there when 12 years old girls give birth to children. Those are facts. So in this regard, we should not stimulate this particular disability for me of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u153	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. For the doppelganger, the People's Representative Hasan Ademov. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Thanks for the lines. I will allow myself to read exactly the constitutional texts. That's what they say. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, according to which family, motherhood and children are under the protection of the state and society. Article 47, para. 2, according to which the mother woman enjoys the special protection of the state. Article 6, para. 2, according to which all citizens are equal before the law and no restrictions on their rights and privileges are allowed, including by age. What other constitutional evidence do you want to accept what we speak from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? We say what's written in the Constitution! And I ask you to comply with these constitutional texts. Next, dear Mr. Alexandrov, please don't confuse discrimination with the limitations in the other laws you speak of! Age discrimination cannot be accepted. Next, we agreed that these measures were not aimed at just one ethnicity. These measures are aimed at the support of Bulgarian citizens. They have no idea of being targeted... Because you direct the discussion in this direction to limit the rights based on the age principle the main one you offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u155	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Please come in for a procedure. I would just like to inform the people's representation that only the national representative from the ABC Mrs. Mariana Todorova has signed up for a speech at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u156	Mr. Chairman, given that the proposed and the draft laws under point 1. 3 on the agenda of the National Assembly are of extreme public importance, I propose that the working hours for today's meeting be extended to the voting of the bills under point. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u157	A counteroffer? Is there an offer back from the gym? I can't see. We're listening, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm making a reverse proposal. I believe that what my colleague Bajraktarov proposed is not appropriate, so I ask you to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u159	Dear Members of Parliament, I am voting on the procedural proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov to extend the working hours in today's meeting until the final exhaustion of this item on the agenda and the vote on the four proposed bills. Please, vote mode. I also wait for MP Georgi Bojinov to vote so that there is no reason to ask for a revoting, but the patience of the Presidency is not endless. Please! [[Radio.]] They voted 112 MPs: 28 against 31, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I give the floor to the MP Mariana Todorova. Here you go, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will speak very briefly so that there is a chance that the debate will be completed in time and that we will vote on these bills. I am in favour of the Law of the Council of Ministers, as it is not politically consistent, there are no elements of politicisation or ethnisation as there are in some other laws. The goal is really encouraging responsible parenting. Responsible parenting has been spoken for a long time, it has even been turned into a political cliche, but only now do we see that it materializes by taking several measures. We also welcome that social justice is sought in providing social assistance, because these are definitely not popular measures and it takes political will and courage to take them. It is clearly defined the help of social assistance and assistance in kind. It is apparent that in-kind assistance is provided only under certain conditions when there is no care for the child when they are not used as intended and when the mother is underage. We are obliged to create the legal framework for this, but how the responsible institutions choose the aid and distribute it is their responsibility, and not the legislation. I also saw an argument not to give aid in kind to underage mothers, because so they will not learn to manage a budget and learn social responsibility. However, this Law does not have an educational purpose, but to protect the interests of the child as far as possible and not to become an instrument for receiving more social benefits. I would like to stress that in the Law, the actual target group and the center is the child, not its parents. There is no suspension of aid for children, and there is a suspension of child support if they stop going to school; there is replacement of aid in kind, but there is no suspension of aid definitively, but only in the event of non-compliance with certain conditions. The termination is also clearly regulated: when the child does not attend three consecutive months of school or a total of six months. This makes sense because it means that it is excluded from the educational process and has not received quality education. That when underage mothers become parents, their parents' benefits are stopped, it makes perfect sense. Notice, they return when they return to school and graduate from secondary school. The fact is from statistics that most mothers who have become premature parents never graduate. It's actually an incentive for these mothers to go back to school. The aid is stopped when parents do not reside in the country, as it is not appropriate if they do not live here permanently, to be users of the social system. It is important that assistance for student mothers is also regulated because there are many abuses. The aim is to stimulate teaching mothers, not those who are self-recorded in the higher education system, only to benefit from these benefits. Something also very important, which has not been addressed here, although it must find a legal dimension in other laws, this is the redefining of the concept of family and that actual cohabitation is also considered a family. In fact, for years, family benefits were calculated only by the income of mothers if they did not marry the father. However, you know that to date such couples are about 53% of the Bulgarian society. It is also important that the trident model is encouraged and that the aid for the three children is equal. We consider this project very well balanced, defending the interests of the child, non-discriminatory, because we see that the subject is not only underage mothers, but also families in actual cohabitation and students' mothers a complex of measures that will be a first step in solving some problems. Otherwise, we do need a more global policy of inclusion, of education, but this does not prevent concrete measures from being taken through this Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. - What's the line? I won't. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? Mr. Slavov, here's the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group, we appreciate that the debate was meaningful. All parliamentary groups have expressed positions on the bills. We find it appropriate, in view of the time, to propose an end to the speeches and a vote on the bills. [[Loud noise and lines: "No can do! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u163	The present proposal cannot be made when considering and adopting a Law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u164	Thank you. Then I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, are there any who wish to speak? [[Noise and lines.]] I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. We're moving on to a voting procedure. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to enter the Chamber. We are voting on the four bills in the order of their submission. I put to the vote at the first reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Family Aid for Children, No 454-01-11, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. They voted 135 MPs: 21, Against 28, abstention 86. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote at first reading Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 554-01-88, submitted by the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs on 13 May 2015. Please vote. They voted 142 MPs: 57, against 18, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u166	Dear Mr. President, I would like a revoting procedure by addressing colleagues from GERB, support the bill, because I, as I have told you, united the bill with the Law of the Council of Ministers will enable a better workable bill to be made and, most importantly, it will be working. So a little effort is needed. I'm turning around to really support this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u167	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. I submit a draft amendment and supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children, No 554-01-88, submitted by Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs on 13 May 2015. Please vote. They voted 141 MPs: 61, against 18, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote at first reading Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 454-01-49, submitted by the National Representative Stefan Kenov and a group of MPs on 20 November 2014. Please vote. They voted 141 MPs: 32, against 11, abstention 98. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote at first reading Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 502-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2015. Please vote. 140 MPs voted: 115, against 21, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, due to the closing of the time provided for a National Assembly meeting, I am closing today's session. Tomorrow, Thursday, the meeting starts at 9:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-17.u168	We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
