ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Messages. On 4 March 2015, the National Assembly received: - Report on the level of implementation of the policies and programmes carried out and the cost of their implementation to the Ministry of Environment and Water as at 31 December 2014; and - Report on the implementation of the programming budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2014. The reports are made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Today we are continuing with the theme of the forests that we started yesterday. The subject is serious enough, so there are a number of bills on it. Point five is: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR FIRE. The importers were Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014; Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs on 18 November 2014; Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs on 12 February 2015 and again Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 24 February 2015. The reports of the Committee on Agriculture and Food will introduce us to her President Rumen Hristov. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will present to your attention two reports. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on two amendments to the Forest Act - No 454-01-15, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014, and No 454-01-45, submitted by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs on 18 November 2014. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 28 January 2015, discussing two amendments to the Law on Forests No 454-01-15, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014, and No 454-01-45, submitted by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs on 18 November 2014. The Commission's work was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: Georgi Kostov Deputy Minister, and Diana Fileva Chief Legal Consult at the Department of Administrative and Legal Service and by the Forestry Executive Agency: Toni Krastev Executive Director, Krasimir Kamenov Deputy Executive Director, Valentin Chambov Head of the Department of Trade Companies and State Participation and Daniela Angelova General Legal Consult at the Department of Legal Administration and Human Resources. Representatives of non-governmental and branch organizations were also present. The first Bill was presented by the MP Nikolay Alexandrov. The bill proposes that the property used to commit a breach and that the property subject to the infringement be taken away for the benefit of the State, regardless of whose ownership they are, whether they were used against the will of their owner and whether their value corresponds to the nature and severity of the administrative infringement. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food does not support the bill. In the subsequent discussion it was noted that the administrative penal provisions in the Forest Law are applicable only in cases where the act does not constitute a crime within the meaning of the Penal Code. The proposed provision is contrary to the principle of proportionality in determining the penalty for the infringement committed and would result in an unjustified withdrawal of property. Furthermore, the measure would not have achieved the declared effect of limiting illegal logging as it is virtually not applicable. The second bill was presented by the MP Svetla Bachvarova. The following changes are proposed: With regard to inventory and planning of forest areas, it is proposed that forestry plans are made for all forestry areas... state, municipal or private property, no matter what their size is. For the state forests, the development of plans will be mandatory at the same time as the inventory of forest areas. For forest areas private property planning will be financed by the state budget. It is proposed that within the limits of the servers of hydromeliorative facilities the areas should be managed as a forest and that wood shall be prohibited from being absorbed from them. The lists of individuals entitled to purchase wood will be drawn up by the Member States of the European Union and not by the mayors of the respective settlements. The procedures for the conclusion of long-term timber mining and sale contracts are intended to be carried out separately for each state forestry and state hunting farm, and for the sale of technological wood exceptionally can be carried out in state enterprises. Exports of raw wood of certain wood types and sizes and wild fungi will be possible by order of the Minister, but only exceptionally and for not more than 3 months. The possibility for tenants or tenants to request the introduction of restrictions or prohibitions on access to the rented or leased areas in state and municipal forests shall be cancelled. Requirements shall be introduced with regard to goods carrying wood and other non-woody forest products, including to be fitted with correct GPS tracking devices. The areas of activity of state enterprises are proposed to be determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Minimum internship requirements are introduced for foresters. The prohibition on the use of raw wood in certain categories of biomass energy production is lifted. In parallel, the Renewable Energy Act introduces restrictions on the use of raw timber in the production of electricity at a preferential price. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food does not support the Bill. In the subsequent discussion some of the proposals were supported in principle, with respect to others there were a number of reservations. A disagreement was expressed regarding the change of order for the production of forestry plans in relation to the introduction of a required internship for forestry practitioners, the ban on the export of raw timber and, in relation to the proposal, the lists of natural persons entitled to purchase wood to be drawn up by the Social Assistance Officers. With regard to the restriction on the use of raw wood in the production of electricity at a preferential price, it was noted that the proposal should be discussed with the leading office and the discussion should be held in the Energy Commission. The introduction of requirements for timber carriers met principled support, but it was stressed that there was a change in the regulatory framework that would provide comprehensive control thanks to electronic transport tickets. Following the debates held: 1. With 4 votes for the Council, 10 votes against the Law on Forests, No 454-01-15, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. 2. The Committee on Agriculture and Food proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Forest Act, No 454-01-45, submitted by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs on 18 November 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u3	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Please also read the second report, which also relates to the other two submitted bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on two bills amending and supplementing the Forest Act, No 554-01-31, submitted by the National Representative Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs on 12 February 2015, and No 554-01-39, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs On 24 February 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 26 February 2015, which continued the discussion initiated at the meeting held on 24 February, on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, No 554-01-31, submitted by the National Representative Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs on 12 February 2015, and examined the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, No 554-01-39, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 24 February 2015. The Commission's work was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: Virginia Hubcheva At the beginning of the meeting, the people's representative Rumen Hristov said he has filed a declaration of conflict of interest and will not participate in the vote. The Law of the People's Representative Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs introduces an explicit ban on exports of raw wood to countries outside the European Union and enables the National Assembly, by its decision in parallel with the Minister of Agriculture and Food, to temporarily prohibit exports of raw wood and wild mushrooms. With the Law of the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs are proposed to remove the possibility that the ban on the export of raw timber and wild mushrooms, which the Minister of Agriculture and Food may require, should be only temporary. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food supports the Bill submitted by the National Representative Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, and according to the Law of the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs there is no opinion received. In the discussions held, the MPs in general agreed that the draft decision prohibiting exports and dispatches of raw timber, around which the Commission has united and intends to propose to the National Assembly, reflects the changes proposed in the two laws. Furthermore, the imposition of permanent restrictions without being accompanied by additional legislative and organisational measures to improve control and limit illegal activities in forest areas could have unpredictable consequences for the whole sector. In this regard, the Members of the National Assembly decided to undertake more comprehensive legislative changes as soon as possible. Following the debates held: 1. With 1 vote for the Council, 2 votes against the Law on Forests, No 554-01-31, submitted by the National Representative Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs on 12 February 2015. 2. With 1 vote for the European Parliament, 2 votes against the EU and 13 votes abstentioned, the Committee on Agriculture and Food suggests that the National Assembly should not adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Forest Act, No 554-01-39, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 24 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u5	Thank you, Mr. Christov. We continue with the next report of the Labour Committee, social and demographic policy, which will be presented by the National Representative Mr. Ademov. I just want to remind you that according to art. 77, para. 3 reports outside the lead can be presented in a summary and I ask you to take this opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe under the Law amending and supplementing the Forest Act, No 454-01-45, submitted by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and a group of Members of the National Assembly The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting held on 28 January 2015 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Forests Act submitted by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Agency for Social Assistance, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The bill was presented by the MP Georgi Gokov. According to importers, the aim of the bill is to create prerequisites for optimizing forest management and removing a number of shortcomings arising in the course of its implementation. The importers argue that the proposed changes will not have a direct and/or indirect impact on the state budget. In the field of competence of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy falls the proposed § 4 to amend art. 111, para. 5 of the Forest Act. Importers believe that this will ensure that firewood is obtained from socially deprived by determining their scope by the competent services. It is proposed that the Member States of the European Union should draw up lists of natural persons who are entitled to purchase wood from the forestry territories instead of the current provision according to which the lists are drawn up by the mayors of the municipalities or by the director of the respective territorial division of the state undertaking or educational-experiential forestry, depending on the ownership of the forest territory. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: 3 votes, 1 vote against...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly not to support the First Voting Draft for amendment and supplement of the Forest Act, No 454-01-45, submitted by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. We move on to the next report, which is from the Energy Commission. Is there a representative of the Energy Commission? I see the people's representative Mr. Dobrev is not in the room. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov. The report is short enough, but it can be done in summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe of the Energy Commission At its meeting on 22 January 2015, the Energy Commission discussed the Law amending and supplementing the Forest Act. The meeting was attended by Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, Nikolay Nalbantov, Director of the Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development. The bill for amendment and supplement of the Forest Act was presented by the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov. The proposed bill aims to introduce a restriction on the use of raw wood in the production of electricity at a preferential price. The Ministry of Energy does not support the proposed amendments and additions. The envisaged changes will not limit but will stimulate the use of such wood, will also make control ineffective and this control will lead to complex relationships between the entities involved in production processes and preferential energy buying. The Forest Act prohibits the production of electricity from logs, and the proposed Law provides for the ban to be abolished and to apply only to sale at a preferential price. As a result of the vote, the Energy Committee proposed to the National Assembly by 4 votes for a vote, without the opposition and 10 votes for abstention, not to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Forest Act, No 454-01-45, submitted by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs on 18 November 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u9	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. The next report belongs to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Forest Act, No 454-01-15, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. At its meeting held on 21 January 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the above Draft Law. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Ilian Todorov. The proposed amendment aims to end the vicious practice of circumventing the Law by persons engaged in illegal logging using foreign property in the conduct of the infringement in order not to be taken away for the benefit of the State. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Yavor Notev and Emil Dimitrov. In support of the bill Mr. Yavor Notev noted that the consequences of illegal logging are visible to nature, they also influence the occurrence of natural disasters. The aim is to overcome the way to circumvent confiscation, which has become mass practice. Mr. Emil Dimitrov drew attention to the possibility of committing similar crimes by using different types of vehicles. After a vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 4 votes in favour, 3 votes in opposition and 9 votes in abstention proposed to the National Assembly not to support the Law amending and supplementing the Forest Act, No 454-01-15, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We continue with the speeches and argumentation of the bills on behalf of the importers. In chronological order, I'll give you an opportunity if you want. Law amending and supplementing the Forest Act No 454-01-15, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. Is anyone willing to introduce the Bill? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will present the two drafts on behalf of the Political Party. With the first in our Draft Law submitted on 27 October 2014, we aim to actually prevent illegal logging by means of other people's property, as we have quite often witnessed this. At least such cases have been told to us at our local meetings that when illegal logging is carried out, it is usually said: you see, the perpetrators of the act borrowed some belongings of third parties, and they did not know about it. In the same way, in the forests, it has happened that, including property owners, illegal logging in their places, their lands, and when the Forests Agency found such a case, they would say: We didn't know about it, and that wood would be restored to them for example, which they would already sell, as the cut wood itself would not be otherwise realised if it was in large quantities. It is in this regard that we have proposed a change in the Law, with which we aim to introduce a measure on the withdrawal of the object of the act, that is, wood itself, and the tools with which it has been carried out, mostly motor cutters and vehicles, with which the wood is carried from the logging to the primary station. We have presented this to several committees - we have not, in our view, met the necessary attention to approach it - to give significant attention to the problem. Yeah, we've already had a Moratorium on timber exports since one day, but that, my colleagues, won't solve the problem. Solving the problem goes through higher sanctions, as well as hindering the conduct of the acts. In our nation's psychology, such an obstruction of doing the deed occurs when one who does the deed or one who helps him in one way or another knows that he will lose too much if the perpetrator himself is captured. If we do not take quite other measures from those currently operating in our legislation, we will leave the situation as it is right now. Do you think we'll stop the illegal logging? No, we won't, but we have to start fighting this. Our other bill is contained in the same sentence in art. 126, para. 6 the word "temporarily" to fall. This brings us to the following version of the text: The Minister of Agriculture and Food by order may prohibit the export of raw wood from certain wood species and/or sizes as well as wild mushrooms. In this way we want to help a GERB minister chosen by you in this House to be able to do his work more effectively. If the Moratorium, which is for three months, does not work either the Forest Executive Agency and the Minister see that the necessary results have not been achieved, do not go through the plenary and the Minister may, by his order, extend this action and continue the Moratorium until real efficiency is achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u13	That is, the Moratorium will be unlimited.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u14	It will not be timeless. This will be on the order of the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u15	Thank you. We continue chronologically with the next Bill submitted by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs. You're welcome to argue the bill on behalf of the importers. You have the floor, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do not know why in such cases the Minister of Agriculture and Food is not present at least. The questions are important and we should also hear the opinion of the Ministry. The report of the leading Commission in one sentence states that the Ministry does not support the bill without any arguments. I do not know if such arguments have been given in the discussion in the specialized Commission. I will not fully represent the content of the bill that we have tabled, as this has been done by the Committee on Agriculture and Foods, and I will draw attention only to what I think is currently the most interested and, in part, has already been the subject of a discussion and a decision. The bill we are submitting on behalf of BSP left Bulgaria is in line with our election commitments. Even during the campaign for the early parliamentary elections, we said we would react to the situation in the Bulgarian forest, in which the logging is growing more and more, including illegal, and most often in areas where there are forest plans, but their implementation in a number of places far exceeds the quantities and the way the timber is extracted and processed. This was also done in the Pazardzhishki region, as this topic is sensitive in the Rhodopes, especially in these municipalities, where much of the timber extraction is concentrated and which should help to increase employment and create added value through the extraction of this valuable natural resource. I will draw attention to how we see the protection of the Bulgarian forest and the increase of control in the forest sector. This can be improved by obtaining real-time information about the movement of the means of transport with which the cut-off trees are carried, by placing GPS systems so that we do not witness, and a few days ago we saw a truck carrying timber, whose drivers sometimes disappear and it turns out that there are no people who have performed this extraction or carry out this shipment. We propose the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Agriculture and Food, to set the boundaries of the state-owned forestry enterprises and on the much discussed subject of introducing a ban on the change in art. 126 in the Forests Act, for the export of raw timber. We propose the most radical solution to the issue by introducing an exemption procedure for a period of up to three months during the year to allow the export of such material and, in principle, a ban on exports of raw wood. This is very important and this is a major problem of the whole Bulgarian economy. And here I'm using the case to say that it's not just about the woods. Bulgaria has a number of fossils. Take a lot of careers where valuable materials are extracted. They, instead of being processed, are often exported to large blocks of such particular fields and this is not included as a requirement for concessionaires. I say this because if we do not change this policy of barbaric exploitation and destruction of nature, we will not have after years what to obtain, but unemployment will also increase and our economy will increasingly be primitiveized, so that the case of forests is part of the topic, but it is an occasion to look much more seriously at a number of laws, including that of useful fossils, so that in Bulgaria the most rational use of natural wealth and as much as possible to process, which creates added value, employment and income for people. These are our main proposals. I also use the case here to put the legal issue of frequent recourse to the moratorium as a means of delaying the resolution of a matter. The Moratorium is essentially a suspension of the law, that is to say a declaration of some period during which existing legal provisions will not operate. The question arises because this is part of the subject of the operation of the law in time and the question of the rule of law, is the use of the moratorium acceptable as a means of suspending the legislation in force? There are probably life situations that also impose such solutions, but they are usually applied in transitions from one legal system to another, from one political regime to another, when there is a significant difference in the principles and norms of the legislative systems in force, and we are in a regime that should give the legislative process in its renewal, we resort to such means. And now it will probably serve as a basis for rejecting the Bill because yesterday the National Assembly with the general support introduced this moratorium. Again, we are proposing a solution which, in my opinion, was a good enough basis for discussion and for seeking legislative change through the procedure of two readings, and not a one-time delay in the question with the expectation that in three months a solution will be proposed that overcomes the current problems. We are also here to provide free access to the forests. A number of tenants and tenants take advantage of the opportunity not to even allow owners of the property and thus make it difficult to use them as pastures or to use the fruit from the forest. There are illegal baits for catching animals and they are inserted into such enclosed spaces, which violates the possibility of hunting activities by the mass members of the hunting associations, and so the richest resource of the forests is actually introduced into such enclosed, separate territories. We offer to drop the opportunity in the woods to make enclosures. Such an exception is now possible with regard to game farms, where they should be breeded, kept wild animals and thus improve the population in the Bulgarian forests. These are the main proposals contained in our bill, along with the fact that within the limits of the waitouts of hydromeliorative facilities, the areas to be managed as forest and to prohibit the absorption of wood from them. I think our bill, whether supported or rejected today, has played a large part. I use to say that the role of the opposition is, apart from being a constructive factor in the legislative process, which we prove through this proposal, is also to give impetus to decisions by the government. This was one of the first drafts in this topic, which I allow myself to say settles a number of open issues, unlike many other initiatives that have been implemented here. We thus think that we have also put pressure on several parliamentary groups after us to propose at least a temporary solution to the issue until a permanent set-up is found to improve the situation in the forest sector. And since we recently celebrated Bulgaria's national holiday, although it is too hyperbolised to make such a comparison, this bill of ours played the role of a small April uprising in terms of the forest issue [[(Radio, calls from GERB: "Eee! ") A replica from GERB: "Maybe of the October Revolution! ")]] Because without it, you didn't have yesterday. I'm talking about the majority or at least the majority leaders, you wouldn't have accepted these decisions. That is why we have given this direction and this impetus, and today you can support the Bill. If you do not, we will have to have this discussion after the end of the three months and then again we will ask the question: and what happens after these three months, will the barbaric use of the Bulgarian forest stop? Will Bulgarian nature be enriched? Will Bulgaria's economy develop in the interests of Bulgarian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u17	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. You're all set up right at the right time. There remains another bill to be presented to a group of MPs headed by Mr. Delchev. Who will present the bill? Mr. Delchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The reformation bloc submitted a bill providing for an indefinite ban on exports of raw wood, on the one hand. Secondly, we provide for an opportunity for the National Assembly to decide on a moratorium in a case where this is not done by the Minister of Agriculture and Food. We believe that, on the one hand, this is a better legal technique, because the imposition of a solution, of moratoriums in a way that prohibits the action of a law, in principle legal technique has not been cleared. We also believe that this can resolve the matter in a relatively lasting way. However, yesterday, the Reformation bloc supported the Decision, which was also supported by the other parliamentary groups, introducing a three-month moratorium on timber exports. We supported him because the problem is there. Colleagues, the outrage in the forest that has been happening for decades is a national problem. According to data from various NGOs per year, hundreds of thousands of cubic meters, and some claim to be millions of cubic meters per year, are illegally cut into the Bulgarian forests. Personally, as a member of the Sofia region, I receive monthly reports of violations, of crimes committed in the forests above Samokov, in the forests above Botevgrad, of serious violations that exist both in Ihtiman and in the Srednogorie, and in particular in Koprivshtitsa. Colleagues, if we do not take effective action to stop these crimes today-tomorrow this will become a disaster. This problem will lead to the fact that entire ecosystems in Bulgarian territory will be changed forever. The forest, my colleagues, is a Bulgarian national wealth and because over the past 25 years many national treasures have been stolen in the most mafia way, we from the Reformation bloc strongly state that we will not allow this fate to share the Bulgarian forest, and therefore we are very happy that this debate has been taken so seriously and we will propose concrete legislative measures in the Forest Act. The ban on the export of raw wood in itself will not solve the problem of illegal logging, and we are aware of that, but it is a signal. The truth is that to a large extent the problems in forests are caused either by inactions or by criminal ties between local authorities, between control bodies that must control the situation in forests and between, of course, intruders. If you do not make changes as soon as possible, this thing will continue. Here I would like to highlight the work of the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor's Office. Colleagues, if all these rumors about closed eyes by law enforcement, inaction by the prosecution, failure to take action continue and prove to be true, and law enforcement authorities do not take action with regard to the situation in the forests, whatever action they are taking by the forest administration, by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food would be absolutely ineffective, as in the end, if there is no one to keep criminals, if there is no one to take away the property and the means they have used to illegally cut trees, we simply pay taxes for the authorities without absolutely any meaning. We therefore believe that improving coordination between the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, the prosecution, on the one hand, and the forest administration, on the other hand, will ensure mutual control between these two institutions that must control the forests and will improve the situation in the forest. The timeless moratorium we have tabled is on the ground that it is not really clear what time the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the police need to deal with this problem. We believe that the three-month period may be insufficient. In the Bulgarian forest, a comprehensive revision of both the state and the municipal and the private fund must be made in order to be clear to what extent and how deep the illegal logging has reached, because there are currently different data, but there are no concrete and definitive data. After all, a number of new legislative changes need to be made, the administration tightening the controls, and this thing will take time. Therefore, if, after the expiry of this three-month moratorium, we do not see a result, we will propose that it be done with an indefinite duration. Dear Members of Parliament, at the end of my speech I would like to express my sincere hope that yesterday and today we are taking the first steps in the fight against one of the biggest problems and in saving one of Bulgaria's greatest treasures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u19	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate on the four laws. I will only remind you of the time without the extensions that each parliamentary group has: GERB 30 minutes; BSP left Bulgaria Please come in for a statement. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In my speech, I will make some objections to the Commission's reports which have been submitted and the objections which, respectively, have been made in the discussions and in the Committee on Agriculture and Food, and also the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Energy Commission on this bill. We adopted a moratorium yesterday anyway. He had and had to give within three months the legal basis for changing bad corruption practices in forests, mostly related to illegal logging. This is on the surface, but at the same time the Forest Act needs significantly more drastic changes due to the fact that its adoption in 2011 and, notice, the lack of Rules on Law Enforcement and the requirement that only regulations be those that will regulate public relations in the forestry sector create more problems than solves any problem. Therefore, the proposals we are now making are a continuation of the Forty-second National Assembly when there was a change in the Forest Law. He was with an act of the Council of Ministers. I would like to remind you that there was a serious resistance then, which is why the objectives that we had pointed out for the change in this Law were not achieved and with the proposal that we are now making, we are taking the next step in our views on what needs to be changed in the forest sector and how it should be managed effectively. Firstly, as regards the objection that we propose only to develop forestry plans. In the Committee on Agriculture and Food, this issue has been discussed. We have almost taken the bread of the small forestry workers who make the programmes. Excuse me, however, the lack of plans at all for the forest territory creates prerequisites for us to have absolutely no vision of what we expect from this territory as a whole. Yesterday it was also said that inventory is coming. Since 2011, we have no inventory regulations. I think there will not be, because again we have the terrible resistance that this thing will happen in the Bulgarian forest and my vision is that in the coming months such a regulation will not come out of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. What we are proposing here is that we do not know what we are doing in the forest, we have absolutely no real idea, given the fact that we already have different owners. The state is the main owner of the Forest Fund, but we have municipal forests, we also have private forests, and it is precisely necessary that this picture be complete as far as forestry plans are concerned. An objection was also made to the Law that the Social Assistance Agency should grant the circle of persons entitled to harvest timber accordingly. However, this mixes, at least as the Commission report has been presented, two things. First, we are only talking about changing this article of the Law, which concerns the possibility of extraction carried out by individuals who buy standing wood on the root for personal use. We don't cancel the mayors' right to make lists and to have a proper order and way that still works. It is well-finished, well-motivated, working mechanism is the mayors to carry out this activity, i.e. the delivery of timber. But when it comes to the possibility of extracting from individuals, we want another corrective, that is, the Social Assistance Agency to provide the list of persons who can carry out this activity. Otherwise, it is a wide open door that enables almost everyone to take advantage of it out of control because there is no control in the woods. This has already been explained several times by all the control that is marked, for what is exported, for what is being processed, for what is being transported. We're also going back to the topic of transportation. Perhaps this is the only sector in Bulgaria in which there is absolutely no control over what is being transported and how to manage this process, and without it, no matter how many forest guards are being appointed, no matter how many mobile teams there are, there is no way that will happen because it is a forest. It's not a closed room where we'll do total control. The requirement is whether they will be GPS devices, but the question is that the Forest Executive Agency should take the trouble to develop information systems and products that will enable it to control the movement of the means of transport at any time and thus have enough clear information about what is happening in the Bulgarian forests. Colleagues, preparing on the subject, I must tell you that I have met five or six opinions on how illegal logging is in Bulgaria. It starts at 1 million, 2 million. 400, 4 million, 5 million. It's data coming out of the non-governmental sector. Perhaps the observations they have made continuously for many years create a prerequisite for having the feeling that the control authorities do not know what is happening in the Bulgarian forest and do not really know how much illegal logging is. What we propose does not represent any expense for the companies that will do so, but will create reasons for really having the opportunity to follow and control the processes. Mr. Stoilov's statement also said that there were a number of problems in the conduct of auctions and the conclusion of timber contracts held by the enterprises. Every year, the system is different because we do not have any imperative in the Law. This is produced by state-owned enterprises under art. 163 or may be carried out by state forest farms and state hunting holdings. This year the auctions are centralized. The following year can become local with the opportunity to participate local companies and to have control. This omission in the Law creates a problem. The claim is that in the Law there are many texts that do not create rules, but create constant exceptions and administration according to what is the political direction and the task given to it can react differently. Long-term contracts are also an opportunity to control who marks, who cuts and respectively what is the amount of wood that comes out of the undertaking concerned. Colleagues, there was a State Forest Agency until 2009. This State Forest Agency was at the Council of Ministers and as an independent office it had much more opportunities to manage the forest sector precisely in the interests of and including the Bulgarian society. In any case, in 2010, it became the Executive Agency with very limited functions and with the possibility at the level of the Minister of Agriculture to determine, including the boundaries and territories they may have or which they acquire. We propose to raise the level to decide on this because there are many unexplained decisions. Everyone in this Chamber may be aware of what strange solutions there are with regard to forest areas and which holding to whom is oriented according to any interests. Serious criticism has been given to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the possibility and the requirement that persons engaged in forestry should have at least two years of experience. Sorry, colleagues, forestry, as described in the Law, is a very complex and responsible event. What are we doing? We finish with some kind of course or finish higher education of the banks and at the same time these same people are appointed and started working on complex events that follow their actions and actions. Therefore, the two years of internship are something that everywhere should be a norm that creates opportunities and prerequisites to really have qualified personnel and they should know what they are engaged in forestry. Including the Law adopted in the previous Parliament on dual training system creates prerequisites for the implementation of or particular attention to activities which may be carried out in connection with the fulfilment of these requirements of the Law. I would very much like this issue to be reconsidered, too, because unqualified personnel who enter the forest sector immediately after completion, create and may create problems. Finally, I would also like to address the proposal or report of the Energy Commission, which categorically rejects the proposal by forwarding us to the Forests Act, where there is a ban. We do not change the Forest Act in this part, but we want to take the necessary steps to control how electricity is produced from wood. There is no definition of biomass, there is no one to control what biomass is and whether biomass is used for electricity production. Such a clause in the Law is missing at all. How do we determine? Therefore, the Forest Act should also be examined in this direction, but we do not offer what the Energy Commission has written in its arguments that, you see, we are allowing almost the production of wood electricity, from logs. This thesis or this opinion of the Commission is very puzzling, but again we are going back to the issue of the..................................................................................... There's no control! The control implemented by the Forest Executive Agency is insufficient, underfunded and will not create the rules that we all want in the forestry sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Are there lines? I won't. Before I gave the floor to Mr. Simeonov, there was a proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Food to be admitted to the Chamber representatives of the executive power who could take part in the debates on the four laws. It's an eng. Mrs. Magdalena Dakova, Executive Director at the Department of Administrative and Legal Service at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Please vote on admission into the Chamber. Vote 108 MPs: 96 against 5, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I ask the honourable representatives of the executive power to take their seats in this Chamber. The word is Mr. Simeonov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will take account of the two laws: 01-15 of Ataka, related to the change of art. 273, and the proposal of BSP LB presented by Mr. Stoilov. According to the first draft bill, we had a quick discussion of the attack. The opinion of the lawyers is that the penalties proposed to limit illegal logging and, above all, to export such wood from the areas where this logging is carried out are such is the opinion of the lawyers as it enables to confiscate vehicles worth many times the value of illegally cut wood. There must be a very serious reason in this legal argument, but I personally do not share it. The entire history of mankind has shown that results have been achieved in respect of compliance with the law in each country, only when, above all, sanctions are disproportionate to the wrongdoing committed. I can give many examples from both Bulgarian and world history. I think that in the case of this outrageous devastation, the destruction of the Bulgarian forest we should allow certain measures in this direction. In this regard, I call, first and foremost, on my fellow Members from the Patriotic Front at first reading to support the Bill, and also on other Members, and between first and second reading, changes have been made in this direction so that it is impossible to confiscate vehicles which have been subject to unlawful withdrawal, in other words stolen. This can be established by the relevant legal measures. Not to mention the current current article. 273 has a well formulated thesis and argumentation in this direction. In other words, this bill should, in my opinion, be adopted because we should impose quite serious measures, I would say directly repressive measures against the destroyers of the Bulgarian forest and those who export from the areas of illegal logging. That's my call. With regard to the BSP bill, I will allow myself to express a not very competent legal opinion, but I think I would be supported by a large part of the lawyers that the imposition of a moratorium which the National Assembly carried out yesterday is not, in fact, a suspension of the Law, as was said not only in the statement of Mr. Stoilov, but also by some other MPs, as the current Law allows the imposition of a moratorium and the suspension of exports by a decision of the Minister, in this case it is a legal norm. So it cannot be speculated that this is almost a suspension of the Law. Sorry, we don't agree on that. It would also disagree with Mr. Stoilov's thesis that they were almost the first to challenge the other bills. Mr. Stoilov, I think this is a heavy party megalomania. What do you want, to deprive us of our legislative initiative, the right to legislative initiative? I don't agree with that approach. Who put in a bill at what point is one question? I want to remind you, I don't know your program, but in our program on the Patriotic Front, we have set, if necessary, a moratorium on logging and timber exports. I don't know your program, but I am simply informing you that in our long before you submit your bill, we have pledged this obligation to our constituents. And finally, I think it's ridiculous the analogy you make with historical events in the April Uprising case. Yes, I understand that you may want to suggest that the Bulgarian forest is tortured and suffers from repression of the Turks, but there is no such thing. The repression of the DPS circles suffers from the hoops of DPS companies that feed this illegal party economically. So watch out for the historical analogies! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u23	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? Personal explanation? I won't. Mrs. Nino has the floor to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u24	Dear Mr. President and colleagues, I would like to give you another argument to support the proposals we are making from BSP left Bulgaria for amendments to the Forest Act. This argument is the direct link between forest cutting and natural disasters and floods. We have a position of the Ministry of Agriculture in the face of Deputy Minister Kostov, who claims that between the cutting of the forest and the subsequent floods there is no direct link. You remember that after BSP left Bulgaria signaled to the Prime Minister here about illegal dams, he called a meeting of the Council of Ministers, invited the Prosecutor General and started actions to address these problems. As a result of these actions, the Prosecutor General and, in particular, the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office carried out checks, requested expert opinions and submitted a report. Colleagues, in this report I have, the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office points to six reasons for the floods in Bulgaria. And that's who one of them is. The Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office shall also find, in other inquiries, and in other expert opinions given in connection with the investigations before the Prosecutor's Office, that forest cutting leads to serious problems in disaster situations and accidents, in rains and in snow melting, inability to retain water, resulting in these catastrophes. During the meeting of the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister orders that a bill of amendments to the Forest Act be drawn up and submitted to parliament by the end of December. The executive did not submit such a bill and did not prepare such a bill. The Prime Minister says in this shorthand: "Please give the Law. We enter parliament and say: here are the recommendations of the prosecution to change it, to untie our hands, to do our job. I believe the opposition will support us. Moreover, to both the Prime Minister and to you, colleagues: we will not only support you, we have done your work, because there is no bill from the executive and the ruling majority to this day. We tabled these changes which were discussed at the Council of Ministers and which were recommended by the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office to remove at least one of the causes of the floods and the subsequent tragedies in many Bulgarian families. That is why our appeal today to all of you is: let us support these bills, which have been tabled by three or four parliamentary groups, so that we do not waste time; between first and second reading to unite them, let us also give you your notes, suggestions for changes, amendments, so that, in the end, with joint efforts and consent, we bring out a good legislative product, a common Forest Law, with which to resolve this issue once and for all, to limit the uncontrolled logging, to strengthen control, to prohibit exports, to one of the reasons leading to this uncontrolled logging, because this is one of the topics on which we need to seek national agreement. The logging of the forest as it is happening at the moment, in the years back in which it happened, leads to a loss for the Bulgarian nature, but we are already witnessing terrible cataclysms and natural disasters, which have flooded half of Bulgaria, have affected millions of Bulgarian families, ultimately led to human tragedies, for which we are responsible here as a beginning of the chain of actions - legislative changes follow the control in order to finally have the effect that we all strive for. So once again, please: support all the bills with the intention to change them, improve them between first and second readings and come up with a sensible solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Slavov has the floor to speak, then Mr. Zhelev. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would appeal to my fellow Members to support the bill tabled by the Reformation Block, and between the two readings can be supplemented these things that they consider important and which will be in the direction of the objectives that the Bill sets itself. In fact, I take the floor for something more important that I want to say, and why I do not think that the left-wing bill can be supported. I don't know if you've noticed, fellow Members, but if you look at the Crossing and Final Provisions, actually half of the Bill represents an amendment to the Renewable Energy Act. I have no claim to be a great expert on forests, but I do know something about energy. I remember how there's-there's not two weeks, we've adopted the changes to the Energy Act. Here I now see an experience through the Transitional and Final Provisions of this Law to restore a number of preferences that the National Assembly has decided to drop so that this deficit can be sanitized in NEK, which is accumulated. This is § 15 of their Bill. If you open it, you will see how the preferences for water power plants are restored up to 10 megawatts, how the preferences for renewables that use biomass and so on and so on. Here, for me, the logical question is what is common in practice between the Forests Act and the Renewable Energy Act, except, perhaps, some lobbying interests, I don't know how else to explain it. But in order not to question the good intentions of the BSP colleagues, I also have no doubt, perhaps a little, I would suggest simply that our bill be supported and then they bring between the two readings the things that really apply to the Forest Law, and the other which really does not belong here simply to drop out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u27	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Is there anyone who wants a line? I can't see. The People's Representative Rumen Zhelev has the floor for speech. Here you go, Mr. Zhelev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Recently in the studios and pages of electronic and printed media, and hence in the couloirs of the parliament and in the plenary are intensively commented the Bulgarian forest and the way it is managed. Finally, the Bulgarian forest entered the focus of public attention. It's been a long time since that happened. This is the largest national resource our country has available, and it is renewable. The Bulgarian forest occupies 37% of the country's territory, 41 thousand. kv. km. The lessist is 33.5 " one of Europe's largest. 33.4% of Bulgaria's territory falls within the Natura 2000 network. From the forest territories, this percentage goes up to 60. Only wood, which is currently around 700 million. dense cubic, at current market prices is worth more than 50 billion. lv. Adding to that the climate-determining, mid-forming, water-regulating, soil-forming, anti-erosion, and whatever other roles the forest holds and performs, it makes it an invaluable national resource that has no price because it donates life. The forest provides other than air for breathing, drinking water, and warmth, and sustenance for many people. There are hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people who empathize and take their bread from the forest in Bulgaria. Bulgaria is also the second or third, not yet quite specified, a country in Europe, the richest in biodiversity. I'm saying all this data to understand once again how important the matter is that we're working and working with today. Many speeches have been heard from here, many assessments have been given, I am very happy with the fact that a large part of society is asking questions. In my opinion, however, a large part of these same people who are not really aware of the forestry profession, and, as I have said before me, it is a rather complex profession, allowing themselves not only to ask questions but to give assessments and to deliver sentences. Even today from this tribune sounded words like barbaric, mindless and so on, but they're just suggestions that still have to be proved. The problems in the forests are many, as are many problems in all other spheres of our public life. Can anyone point to a sphere of public life where everything is fine? How could a person bring order to this huge territory that I told you about just now, even more so, that the forestry college was largely abandoned to fight the problems in the forests itself and did not meet the necessary support from either the authorities of the Ministry of Interior or the authorities of the prosecution, for which there are hundreds of thousands of examples, and they are documented. The forestry college is left alone to fight forest fires, because as a forestryman by profession I know how few outsiders help and there are only forest workers and firefighters. All of a sudden we all started to give off wild screams and screams about how kind the Bulgarian forest is to us. Yeah, she's supposed to be nice to us. Because before there was black and coloured metallurgy before there was an industry, before there was the Internet, and whatever else you wanted, there was a forest, and in it people found sustenance, protection. That's why we have to protect her no matter what. Why won't we support the submitted bills? Not because there is no rational thinking in them, but because we want to avoid what happens with many other laws. Recently, once again, we have amended and completed the Law on the Management and Use of Agricultural Land, adopted for the first time 1991 and until today changed over 70 times, on average four times a year, patch to patch. This suggests that the legal texts are not well considered, rushed and have to change every three or four months. How do you deal with such laws? We all admire countries that have 100- and 200-year-old laws. It is difficult to apply in practice. From the memorandum we voted on yesterday and which in itself...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u29	Moratorium!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u30	Moratorium, excuse me, lapsus. The most important conclusion I was going to say yesterday is that it is obliged the executive authority in the face of the Ministry of Agriculture to take the necessary legislative initiatives, which will, of course, add the efforts of all MPs to amend the Forests Act, which will be more complex to cope with the conservation of forest resources. There's a lot of trouble in the woods. Some of them I'd like to share with you now. First of all, I'm gonna start with some kind of self-criticism about the conservativeity of the system. Any logging, even the best brought out by the most competent forester, to the non-forest can look like lawless, uncontrollable and barbaric, because each crop looks like a battlefield, and there is nothing beautiful about a fallen corpse. But there's no other way. This is done all over the world, even in rich and highly developed countries such as Switzerland, Germany, Austria. The College has not done enough, almost nothing, so as to translate into an understandable language to society the essence of its work. An example of this is the same countries that I have listed, where educational activity is started for the necessary activities in the forests since kindergarten. We're having a hard time accepting someone else's opinion. Only since February this year at the University of Lesotechnics has the discipline been introduced, which has been taught for decades in Western Europe. Not knowing the exact parameters, it has already come up about them, it is also a fact, but the Regulation on the inventory of forests will be a fact because it is in a very advanced stage, Professor. Bachvarova, and the working group is working very hard and is at the end of its preparation. So far, there have also been data, but they have been taken out of the Lesodesign projects that are being worked in a ten-year period, and this has made the data from them inaccurate, as in those ten years the parameters have changed. Inventory is only the main log. Biodiversity and non-woody forest products are appreciated. It was said that forestry was a job for competent people. Years ago, there were several forest technicians who produced highly qualified mid-tech technicians. Currently over 30 schools in the country produce illiterates with diplomas. They hold a diploma for completed secondary education with a specialty of engineering and third degree qualification, which is the requirement of the law for starting a job. It's even gotten to the point that there's been a lot of professional courses lately, and this diploma only gets you within two months. Who needs this and how will young people then feel stimulated to study four or five years in Velingrad when they can get their hands on the same document in just two months? The level of competence is staggeringly low. It's about the poorly developed road network in the woods. Currently, there are no more than 7-7.5 km of roads per hectare in Bulgaria, of which no more than 4 km is actually used. The minimum required by all regulations of world forestry science is at least 15 km per hectare, compared in Germany is 30-35. It just came up, Professor. Bachvarova, for admission of individuals into the woods. This is also unacceptable under the current law. In the forest you can enter, you can only perform logging by the rightful persons. However, in many places and in many areas under the pressure of political forces, logging by local population is allowed by a tariff of root because we serve the interests of the local electorate, and this is in violation of the Forest Act and the Rules of Health and Safety in Forests and there are members who provide for a fine. Of course, you don't have to, because there's an umbrella. Forests don't work hard enough with specialized forest equipment. This is also a problem that needs to be dealt with. We've all seen what the roads from the heavy trucks look like. Trio, Vietnamese and so on. A very good technique with wide balloon tyres has already been developed. In order not to express myself in figures that no one will ever understand, I will tell you that the pressure such a tyre on such a truck is exerting on the wood and the growth is less than the pressure a cyclist is exerting, that is, passing and the growth is rising. We just have to start bringing them in. There's good faith in it, working on it. We have a slow rate of imposing world recognised forest standards proving the ecological, socially responsible and cost-effective use of forest resources. Imperfect system of wood tracking from the temporary warehouse in the forest to the final client, thank God, and that is the case. An online system with electronic carriers, terminals, barcodes, plastic chips and a system based in the Forest Executive Agency is introduced, which I very much hope will put an end to the transportation of wood with a single ticket several courses, which in short distances is a fact. If we manage to minimize the involvement of politicians in the forestry work, I think that working in forests will improve significantly. It is no secret to anyone that at the moment the Director of the Forest in many places can neither appoint nor fire even one forester because he is working on an indication superior. In other words, it's not the forestry laws that work, it's the political laws. True, everything is a policy in this life, but let it still be within some acceptable minimum. I want to debunk a myth that I often listen to. Everyone familiar with forestry practice knows how untenable the claim is: cutting, not afforestation. If a forester has done his job properly, there is no need for afforestation. If he has brought out the right sightings and re-entrys, pay attention to the words, the forest is self-renewing with great force. Afforestation is an expensive forestry event that should only be needed where there is no chance of the forest reinventing itself. Swiss forestrymen, and this is one of the leading forestry schools, claim that patience is cheaper than afforestation, and if you have money and you have no patience, go afforestation, not to mention how much more sustainable natural forests are than artificially imported forests. Indeed, in Bulgaria there was a period of time during which it was heavily afforested, but this was subsequently the excessive vandalist and irresponsible logging that is taking place in Bulgaria, but not nowadays. These days, the forest is growing. It may sound like heresy to you, but that's the true fact that her condition is improving. In many places there are terrible views, in many places there are apocalyptic paintings, but this is local. Globally for the country, and with that I started the first words that I told you that the Bulgarian forest is eventually increasing, despite all its showers, although it is abandoned at random and has not met the necessary support from society. That is why I am glad that this debate is beginning, and now we are just starting. The other false statement is about the sanitary chopping everywhere. Sanitary logging is not studied at the University of Lesotechnics. They're an investigation, God forbid it comes to that. If it's gotten that far to have sanitary choppers, then someone hasn't done their job yet. If you haven't brought out the necessary sightings, then there's a snowfall, a windmill, a glacier, something that's being observed at the moment, and it's already coming to the removal of sanitary choppers to remove the consequences of the damage caused by biotic and abiotic factors. I think I'll stop lecturing on forestry. I want to tell you a few more data, because I think it's important. The growth of the forest in Bulgaria is about 14 million. It's a dense cube. In an annual plan they are cut down, with all the allegations of legal and illegal logging, I told you that those of the order of 2 million are greatly exaggerated and cannot be obtained in practice. Understand, it can't be done in practice. It would be very easy for me to become a part of the common choir and start blabbering. Very easy, but very unfair and incorrect. These suggestions are incorrect, and we are bringing to society concerns that have been greatly increased. Of that seven or eight million. Cubic wood per year over 3 million. Full-bodied cubicle goes for heating. It's an immense luxury. There is no country in Europe And it's also that we pollute the atmosphere, because the wood is pegged as a result of photosynthesis carbon, which goes back to heat the sky and increase the greenhouse effect. This is a direction where we have to think and work. When we talk about energy efficiency programmes, this is one of those which helps the population to be equipped with heating appliances, whose utility rate is more than 85%. This has been done in many European countries. In this way we will also save many forests, because one family, if they are now needed, as said Mr. Bayraktarov, 8 or 10 spatial cubic, then it will need three and the wood will go for processing and remain available because each tree is a carbon warehouse. This is how modern countries fight global warming. Burning it, we bring it back into the atmosphere because the only known process in which oxygen is released in the atmosphere is the great natural mystery of photosynthesis, which requires light, heat, moisture and chlorophyll. Everyone else is consuming oxygen. The plants are the only ones that release it. Finally, let's go back to the Law. At this stage, we do not support the proposals for a change in the Law, not because, as I said at the beginning, there is not much truth or rationality in them, but because we want to make a more conceptual and global amendment of the Law, which will cover a much wider range of forest problems. Anyone can participate in the drafting of this Law, texts will be reviewed and refined. As regards why these texts have not been adopted. The arguments were given in writing by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and we all agreed with them. I call on at this stage not to adopt these laws, to wait for the duration of the moratorium and to make a change to the Forests Act adopted for the first time in 2011 and changed once or twice so that this change can withstand a longer period of time. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u31	Thank you, Mr. Zhelev. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, please welcome the people representative Stefan Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The issue of the forests of Bulgaria has become one of the most controversial and scandalous TV cases in recent weeks. Everything started from my electoral district, where a mayor made strong criticisms of forestry as a whole, the work of several forestry farms and this topic became a flapper of all morning blocks and shows. Land was being cut down and accused of pointless logging, criminal logging, wood-stealing, and eventually many of these territories and pictures that were being displayed were struck by snow or other natural disasters. As my colleague Eng said. Rumen Zhelev: The Bulgarian forest is still growing. Undeservedly all of us, as part of the Bulgarian society, blamed the Bulgarian forestry workers during these weeks and why not years. We sewed up the term "gore mafia" to them, accused them of stealing, while at the same time the state did not pay any attention to these people, they let them work on an insane working day over the years, no overtime was paid, during certain years they were missing for months of work clothes to work with. After all, we have one problem today and this is the control of the forest fund, not only in the state, but in the municipal and private forest fund. The forest territories of state ownership are protected and guarded by the Forest Executive Agency. The system, which has been implemented by state forest enterprises and control by the Forest Executive Agency, may be only my opinion in this House, but it is ineffective for me. This way of managing the country's forests is ineffective. Why do I think that is? First of all, the lack of enough human resources. You can't send two forest guards with one Lada Niva to capture a gang of 15-16 wagons with two men on a wagon in the woods. They're not supermen or superheroes. Years ago, when the cooperation between the Ministry of Interior and National Forest Management was really fruitful, the State Forest Agency during the different periods, and when these two forest guards came in with two trucks with gendarmes, the picture looked radically different. I dare say that today there is no such thing and there is no cooperation between the control in the forests and the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. Perhaps you should consider prioritizing security in the forest fund. Its place as the Executive Forest Agency in the Ministry of Agriculture is an ineffective way of management. Why not approach the option of the Executive Agency returning as the State Agency to the Council of Ministers? If you all believe that this is a priority, we should not accept yesterday with a huge majority of Moratorium for export, provided that exports are not the problem of the Bulgarian forest. We export 16% of the timber, of which to the Republic of Turkey, which is the biggest problem according to the National Assembly, we export wood from beech, gaff and low quality coniferous wood, which has no market in Bulgaria. Or we export our junk, which we cannot sell on the Bulgarian market, and at the same time we limit it during a period when it is the only livelihood of logging companies and state forest enterprises. I voted against it yesterday, but today I will vote for it mainly for the BSP Bill left Bulgaria. Why? Because this is the first thing that really has measures in terms of increasing control. Because in the end, we need to talk about control, about protecting state forest territories, not banning for three months, delaying and entering into the same hypothesis as we were with regard to the pension system between first and second reading of the State Budget Act for this year. We postponed a problem with the pension system to resolve it by March 31st. And what do you get? By March 31, we will have nothing ready to vote. We will not even have anything ready to discuss in Parliament, because what will happen at the meetings of my esteemed Minister Kalfin is a big talk. Everyone speaks out, and in the end, nothing constructive will come of it. This will also happen with the legislation during the Moratorium three months are extremely insufficient, but this time should not be slept away. I am opposed to some of BSP LB's proposals regarding the Forest Act, and it is in their part that wood for the local population should receive only the socially weak. The Bulgarian people are poor enough. State and municipal forest enterprises have a secure market for firewood, with their activities supplying the local population. I express my principled position in favour of the first reading of the Bill submitted by Mr. Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs. We reserve the opportunity to submit proposals between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u33	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. Anyone for a line? I can't see. Mr. Rumen Hristov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I will remind you of what I read in the reports on the four bills. The Commission's decision is rational in all four bills. However, at the debates in the Committee on Agriculture, which within less than a month were three related to the development of forests, the problems in forests and the forestry sector, we decided that we would go to a complex amendment of the Forest Act. I would just remind you that yesterday, with the decision to impose a Moratorium on the export of wood, we included to the Ministry of Agriculture the obligation within this three-month period to propose legal changes to the Forest Act and changes to the regulations. It is no coincidence that the Committee on Agriculture is looking at how it was voted there, all the parliamentary groups voted, did not support the four bills with the idea that in the general bill we are waiting for by the Ministry of Agriculture and by the proposals of a group of MPs from the parliamentary groups, we will make a complete change in the Law on Forests. In this sense, I think that the Members of the National Assembly should listen to the opinion. Of course, it is their right whether or not they will listen to the specialists and look for a comprehensive change of the Law on Forests. As a matter of fact, the Ministry of Agriculture, within a few months, is working very actively, working actively and separate parliamentary groups, so that these rational things can be included in the general bill that we are about to look at in the near future, and actually meet the expectations of society. Tensions regarding what is happening in the forests are increased, public interest is increased, but with yesterday's decision to impose Moratorium I think things have calmed down. Once again, let us listen to the decision of the specialised committee, namely the Committee on Agriculture and Food, which recommends that the four bills be not supported at first reading in order to develop a common one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Ivan Stankov. [[Mister President Boyko Borisov enters the Chamber.]] Good afternoon, Prime Minister. [[National Representative Ivan Stankov spoke with President Dimitar Glauchev.]] Prime Minister, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have always thought that when there are important things to say or to comment on something important concerning the whole country, all of us, it is right to do in Parliament and in Parliament's stands. With all due respect! Yesterday was an important day because not every day the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation comes to Bulgaria. These are things that have been planned for 3-4 months. Not every day comes the president of a country important in a strategic plan for energy independence, for the diversification of Bulgaria. I have always said that for the stability in Bulgaria in these few months, especially until the local elections, after the repeated scrolling of service governments with other governments, it is vital that this calmness be held. Therefore, I have always been very respectful and grateful to the opposition and to those who supported us for one reason or another. Therefore, I have always most tolerantly thanked my colleagues from BSP and DPS, and, of course, the four parties who support us for any action that was important. I have believed that stability in the sphere of security, trust and non-return of the state at a time when police, suspicions of listening to many governments so far, which were strongly suspected that it was done by my Minister Tsvetanov, previously by General Tsvetanov. Atanasov, more than anyone before, when there is such balance in the services, it brings more security and more peace. It was surprising to me at a time when, at the invitation of DANS and Pisantchev, the director of the FBI came, on that day, at 10:00 p.m., before the lunch he gave him at the DANS, to ask for his resignation before the meeting at 15:00 p.m. at the Minister of Interior to speak at all on this topic, on that day. Because, I repeat, the correct thing was for us to send a letter and postpone Mr. Comi's invitation and arrival. In front of their colleagues, I have always said that politicians, the prime minister, the ministers are responsible for the services and what they do. From now on, there's an organ called the D.A., who investigates if someone breaks the law. That is why it was a big surprise for me just yesterday that Minister Vuchkov would act in this way "demonstrally gave me a resignation, which I have delayed for about five seconds until I wrote "Yes!" I believe this is an extremely incorrect act to me and to the government yesterday. As you can see, today in the media, there is no emphasis on what we have achieved with the director of the FBI or President Aliyev. The subject was completely removed from Mr. Vuchkov's act. With all due respect to him! He's worked perfectly comfortably these three months and I've told him: when you give me enough motive and in the time we're government, arguments. In the state's current situation, there are neither sacred cows, nor names, nor individuals who can endanger stability. What does it mean for the person of Vuchkov or of Pisantchev or of Lazarov to remain in a position, to shake the state or to become a political crisis? I am addressing my friends and partners in the bilateral coalition from the Preparatory Block and for what our colleagues from the Patriotic Front and ABB support: it is incorrect to GERB that you in the important votes were not in the Chamber and created the feeling that DPS supports GERB. I'm a right man, and I've thanked them every time those moments were state-owned. It's a political culture to me, it's to appreciate when someone helped you through a difficult time. Dear colleagues, if the flat tax had not passed, if what Mr. Mikov had taken, then I think that BSP proposed that the flat tax should fall, GERB would not have remained in the government. You would've been homecoming long ago, you wouldn't be here! What kind of insolence is it to put this on me like a brooch and let the DPS come out like some backstage player who holds me, holds me, and what can't he manipulate me with?! What do you mean?! The preliminary estrangement of the law, which BSP was kind enough to remake in the last term, resulting in project infrastructures being locked up. If the alienation procedures were not adopted, no GERB programme in the construction would have happened, no infrastructure project. Moreover, we were going to return the money for Struma and Maritsa. If we, the four parties supporting the government, were in the Chamber, what difference does it make how the DPS would vote? None! Zero! Only they voted, they helped us, and, come on, backstage came back! Wasn't it the same on the other extremely important votes?! Exactly the same! Suddenly there is some new maneuver that Borisov protects Pisantchev and Lazarov not because of stability, but because he is dependent. Colleagues, one year I was not only investigated by the faience, by the tiles at home, my trees counted what my father planted, which I bought, my gutters disassembled to see if they were brass, bronze or tinted. If there was anything, they wouldn't have forgiven me at all, be assured! And there was no, believe me, such powerful services would ever come to sit with me at a table, let alone make statements or invite me from Berlin to the White House. I understand this point of support! I'm not mad at the opposition, they have their own game, they play it, they have to win as many votes as possible in the elections. Why are we doing this to each other? Why? I know I have absolutely no addiction! None at all! My only goal was this part of parliament. [[sighs left]] to be assured that there will be no more cop tricks again........................................................................................................................ and everything................................................................................................................................ It turns out that Mr. Pisanchev, for whom, by the way, the director of the FBI gave an excellent assessment, the English services... excellent assessment, turns out that by trying to do this thing for the peace of the services, I am the dependent person in the state. The question is: who rules the state, who rules Borisov?! Anyone who knows me knows I'm out of control. [[Laughter and excitement.]] That's the truth. I saw Radan Kanev last night and Peter Moskov, so I told them. I said: "Colegi, tomorrow I will go to parliament, I will ask for the resignations of Pisanchev and Lazarov, I will thank them that three months have worked loyally and respectfully, with good assessments from my partners, so that there is no doubt and chance to think about this issue. From now on, however, I ask those who have signed agreements, coalitions and everything else to be in the Chamber so that these Members do not have to exercise political and state responsibility to support us, as yesterday has happened, for example, to count as one vote! This is the instability of the government, not Pisantchev and Lazarov. They'll resign if they don't sue us if they want to, if they want to, do what they want to do. At the next Council of Ministers, I will propose it, because the situation that is currently under way outside this room is that there is a backstage. Bullshit! It just gets me off balance! Maybe the goal yesterday was to get me out of balance and go in that direction. If that's what they've calculated, they've calculated it correctly. I can't bear it. GERB could bear many things, but there is a limit that cannot be passed and this is the border at the moment. From this tribune, I want their resignations. I'm going to propose to a minister a man who will at least guarantee the peace and civil quota in the interior ministry. I'm going to make an enormous effort in no way to make sure that any more militia tricks don't go through. I hope the colleagues from BSP, DPS and Attack understand me correctly. I'm going to make an enormous effort to investigate those responsible. In any way, however, there will be no persecution or any other. It would have been wonderful if we had a political culture, now to sit down and together the parliament with the opposition, in these important places to place people really professionals who would guarantee not us, as party people and politicians, but the people that there is real professional leadership there, because they follow hard months, hard times. Every concussion in the service is disastrous. Not that they're strong, not that they're very good. In these years they have been broken down, broken down, for which we, of course, have our wines. That is certainly a fact. I will propose Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova for Interior Minister, so I hope that both GERB and reformers will appreciate the gesture that I want a civic beginning. I don't think any of the opposition would doubt that she would go into surgery on them and harass them. Don't speculate with names either, because listening to what names are offered and what is said... I hope this will stop the manipulations that many people have helpfully succumbed to. Let us hope that the people of BSP and DPS at important moments will not succumb to who will pin us with what as a comment. We'll try to make sure the country's okay. Mr. Glauchev, thank you for giving me the floor. I believe this is where I should have spoken these things. To assure you that despite the pressure of the word, I am compelled by the way everything has happened to me to do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u37	In or out?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u38	Inside or outside, any way you want, look at it. The fact is a fact! Yeah, thanks. I wasted your time. Have a good day. [[Long applause from GERB and RB, single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u39	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you again for your understanding. We are continuing with the debates on the bills. Professor Stankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman! [[The National Representatives of BSP LB stand up and speak to a group. People's representatives from the DPS are coming out of the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u41	Please be quiet in the hall! Have respect for the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u42	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! It's hard to talk after the Prime Minister, but I'll try and be very brief. I want to say a few things, I hope, essential things. [[Noise and lines.]] Indeed, the problem with Bulgarian forests is very serious, so things should be considered not in pieces, and I intend to work very seriously during these three months, during which is the moratorium, and to prepare one... [[Part of the MPs from BSP LB, standing, continuing to talk, lines and noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u43	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I realize that you are impressed with what the Prime Minister has said, but let us respect a professor, a speaker who commented on the Law that is being debated at the moment. [[Noise and lines.]] Don't comment from the spot! Please be patient and keep your attention. Mr. Bojinov, you too, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u44	Dear colleagues, during these three months we really need to work and offer a fuller and more comprehensive bill, because there are problems throughout the whole chain of industries in the forests. There are problems with forestry, we all know them; there are problems with logging, with wood processing. There are representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. I propose that as soon as possible we gather at the Ministry of Education in the Large College, to make a serious discussion and analysis, to put on the table all the problems that should be included further in the new bill. I agree with what Mr. Rumen Zhelev said about the forest rebuilding itself. However, there are such sections in Bulgaria, where in any case we should take afforestation. This is also important, and we need to keep that in mind. There are many problems with logging, and many problems with unregulated logging, so we also need to work in this direction. Something that has been underestimated so far, and for many years it has been wood processing. At the Ministry of Agriculture and Food two years ago, we had several meetings, with representatives of everyone in the chain. I have to say that even then, and at the moment, small producers are experiencing an acute need for material, not only for pine material, but also beech material is very necessary for the wood industry. There are companies in Bulgaria that I can point to specifically, such as the Middle Forest, which is facing a stop, Troyan and others. We must do everything we can to ensure the Bulgarian wood processing and from there to think about exports, because we will continue to export again. Our parliamentary group is not opposed because there are many rational elements in the proposed bills. However, we are also not for the EU at this time and at this stage, so we are going to vote with abstention. Thank you for your attention. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u45	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. Is there anyone willing to make a line? I won't. There is a floor for speech the people representative Slavcho Binev. Here you go, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the Forest Law is related to a major problem as well. As we have already said, one of the main reasons for the severe consequences of natural disasters in recent years are in the serious clearings in the forest areas, and many of them, of course, are illegal. It should not be forgotten, on the other hand, that a large part of the wood is exported to Greece and Turkey, and in most cases, it is the valuable quality wood that is declared lower quality wood that is exported to fraud schemes. No control, total negligence so far. In the internal market of round wood there is a complete disorder. There's no control whatsoever. These and many other facts show that the Bulgarian state completely neglects such a serious problem. There is no strategy, a plan to deal with these processes. I expect to unite around this problem and so, as Mr. Hristov suggested, and as the specialists said, we really need to make a joint bill, an inseparable party, because it is a common topic, a national topic in which will show who are interested and interested in national problems and who are interested in something else. I believe that the most radical measures should be supported here at the moment, as the problems with the Bulgarian forest are really big and especially with wood. Only in the countries of the third and fourth world are raw materials exported, and this is what countries feed on. As you know very well, in Germany they make Mercedes, we export scrap. The difference is in 100,000. Euros, because one of them has an intellect, and the other one has nothing. It's just raw material. For this reason, I think that we should really unite ourselves from both this vote and from the measures that will be proposed for second reading, we will find out who was interested in our national problems and who were interested in some others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u47	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Anyone for a line? I can't see. Anyone who wants to make a statement? There are no other speakers recorded. We're putting a stop to the debate on this point. Let's move on to the vote. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs to the Chamber as we are about to vote. Honourable Members, we are voting on the four legislations tabled in the order of their entry. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, No 454-01-15, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. Please vote. They voted 134 MPs: 43, against 59, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the next Draft Law amending and supplementing the Forest Act, No 454-01-45, tabled by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs on 18 November 2014. Please vote. 140 MPs voted: 36, against 62, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next vote and it is under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, No 554-01-31, submitted by the National Representative Dimitar Andreev Delchev and a group of MPs on 12 February 2015. Please vote. They voted 129 MPs: 37 against 10, abstention 82. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote today's last debate a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, No 554-01-39, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 24 February 2015. Please vote. They voted 135 MPs: 35 against 77, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u48	Mr President, honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal to extend the period between first and second readings under the Energy Efficiency Act by one week.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u49	Please vote on this procedural proposal. They voted 132 MPs: 130, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, it's 11.10. We're offering to take a break now. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. At 11.40, we'll continue our work with a t. 6 of the intended weekly programme. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u50	Dear Members of the National Assembly, we are continuing today's meeting. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. The next item on the agenda is: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROCUREMENT OF CANDIDATES FOR THE PRESENT, THE DEPARTMENT OF PRESENTS AND THE TWO MEMBERS OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS, THE PRESENTATION AND THE PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND THE HEARING OF THE CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION OF THE BUDGET AND FINLAND, AND THE PROCEEDING PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION. The report of the Budget Committee will introduce us to her chairman Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u51	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a draft decision to adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions of the marketing candidates for the Chair, Vice-Presidents and two members of the Court of Auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 18 February 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed procedural rules for holding a public procedure under art. 89 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of President, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors. The adoption of procedural rules is necessary in relation to the Act on the Court of Auditors which, in § 3 of the Transitional and Final Rules, provides within one month of the entry into force of the Law that the National Assembly elects a President, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance, with 18 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the Chair, Vice-Presidents and two members of the Court of Auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chairman, Vice-Presidents and two members of the Court of Auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Offering candidates for President, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors and submitting their documents. 1. A proposal for a candidate for President of the Court of Auditors shall be made by parliamentary groups or by Members of Parliament who are not members of a parliamentary group. The proposal shall be submitted in writing to the Committee on Budget and Finance through the President of the National Assembly within 7 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposal for candidates for Vice-Presidents shall be made by the President of the Court of Auditors. The Management Board of the Institute of Graduated Accountants, respectively the Management Board of the Institute of Internal Auditors in Bulgaria, shall propose to the President of the Court of Auditors a candidate for a member of the Court of Auditors within 5 days of the decision to elect a President. The proposal for Vice-Presidents and Members shall be submitted in writing by the President of the Court of Auditors to the Budget and Finance Committee through the President of the National Assembly within 7 days of the decision to elect a President. The proposal for a candidate for President of the Court of Auditors, Vice-Presidents and Members shall be accompanied by written reasons which justify the good professional reputation of the applicant. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) written consent of the applicant according to the model (s) of Annex 1 to the Decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher education with a minimum degree of qualification (d) a criminal record; (e) documents certifying that the applicant meets the requirements for professional experience in the field of auditing, administrative and financial law, financial control, finance or accounting for not less than 15 years; (e) a statement in the form of a template of Annex 2 to the Decision that there are no circumstances under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1, t. 2 and 3 of the Law on the Court of Auditors; (g) a proposal from the Management Board of the Institute of Graduated Accountants, respectively from the Management Board of the Institute of Internal Auditors in Bulgaria under art. 15, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors for the Members of the Court of Auditors. An extract from the minutes of the meeting of the management board concerned shall be attached to the proposal for a candidate to be a member of the Court of Auditors. II. Public disclosure of documents. The proposal, together with the documents attached to it, shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly no later than 7 days before the hearing. The publication of the proposal and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions on the applicant to the Committee on Budget and Finance not later than three days before the hearing of the applicant, including questions to be addressed to the Committee on Budget and Finance. The media may send questions to the Committee on Budget and Finance to the candidate to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Aleksandar I" No 1, Budget and Finance Committee or by e-mail of the Commission. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. The candidate's hearing. 1. Before hearing the proposed candidate, the Budget and Finance Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the applicant complies with the requirements for the post for which he is proposed. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The applicant shall be submitted by the proposer.. Within two minutes. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Personal presentation of the applicant and its concept of the activities of the Court of Auditors with a view to the position for which it is requested within 10 minutes. 5. Presentation in summary of the opinions and questions of the persons referred to in art. 89, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, if any, shall be represented within two minutes each. 6. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 10 minutes. 7. Questions from the Members of the National Assembly within two minutes. 8. The applicant's response to the questions raised by the Members of the National Assembly will be up to 10 minutes. 9. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and the relevant competent authority. 10. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 11. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 89, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing of the candidate. If several candidates for a position have been heard, the Commission shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates, to which a list of candidates participating in the hearing shall be attached, alphabetically arranged for their own names and shall submit it to the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for the respective position in the State body. IV. Election of a candidate for Chairman, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors from the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidate is present at the meeting with a decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held on the application under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The vote is clearly supposed through the voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. There are Annex 1 and Annex 2 declarations to the Decision to be filled in by the applicants. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u52	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. You have the floor to speak. Mrs. Maya Manolova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u53	Dear colleagues, and for those who are unenlightened on the subject, it is clear that the rules we are dealing with are for pulling over numbers, from a hypocritical understanding of the decency of the ruling party and the ruling majority, for the audience. Just have some rules by which we pretend to elect the members of the Court of Auditors. It is clear why this is so because the positions in the Court of Auditors are five and have long been distributed among the four parties in the ruling coalition, plus one bonus for the parliamentary group, which supports the ruling majority at decisive moments, so the Perhaps this is also the explanation that the authors of these rules have not even bothered to give them such a form of legal form, at least not in frappany violations with the parliamentary rules, and with the very specificity of the procedure of the Court of Auditors' choice, and here it is written by what other procedural rules existed in this and in the front parliaments. The authors completely ignore the fact that the structure of the Court of Auditors, according to the new law, is complex, three-step. First a President shall be elected, then on a proposal from the President, the two Vice-Presidents, then on a special procedure by two non-governmental organizations from the private business community, shall be elected both members of the Court of Auditors, but this specificity shall be absent in these rules simply because they have been made on a knee, in haste and it shall be relied on that the public has already accepted that the ruling majority has distributed its positions in the Court of Auditors so that they do not overdo it particularly in detail. I draw attention to the following specific nonsense in these procedural rules. First, there is a frank violation of the parliamentary rules which requires in the standard procedure............................................................................................ 89 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the documents of candidates for public positions elected by Parliament to be published 14 days before the hearing of the candidate concerned. The time here is conveniently made at seven days. The faster the whole procedure goes, the better. Secondly, there is no absolute requirement for the submission of a declaration of property to the President, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors. And, thirdly, although this is about a concept that will be discussed during the debate, the requirement to present a written concept, at least the President for the work of the Court of Auditors, is missing. So before analyzing these passes, I will make three concrete proposals under the rules, which I ask to be voted on separately, and I would be curious as to what the arguments would be for my proposals not to be supported by the ruling majority. The first proposal is for the addition to Section 1 of the letter.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u54	That's in t. Two?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u55	It's in point I, point I. 2 after letter "z" shall be followed by a letter "z" to read: "Declaration of the property status of the applicant, which shall be completed according to a model applicable to persons who submit declarations under the Publicity Act of the property of persons holding senior state posts." Mr. Chairman, I'll give it to you in writing. After that.................................................................... The President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors shall be appointed by the President-in-Office of the President-in-Office of the President-in-Office of the President-in-Office of the And in the second (Romanian) figure, in the first sentence, to be replaced by the number. "14" in order to comply with the requirements of the parliamentary rules, which, for the lawyers is clear, I think it is clear to Mrs. Stoyanova that she also has the rank of law, according to one interpretation of the Constitutional Court, so that we want or not, we must comply with what is written in the parliamentary regulations and voted by the same majority. Particularly important is the issue of the financial declaration of members, candidates, both for members, and for President and vice-presidents, because the argument that, once elected, they will submit a financial declaration is more than untenable. It is important that when we choose the members of the state's supreme audit authority in advance, when discussing their applications, we are aware of their property situation, as well as the possible discrepancies in it. We've already had a table of mishaps with other candidates for public office. The fact that, after the President or Vice-Presidents or Members are elected, they will submit a declaration of property to the Court of Auditors itself, in this case this argument is irrelevant because the declarations of property of the Court of Auditors will be submitted to whom? In front of the Court of Auditors. He's gonna check 'em out. Who's gonna check 'em out? The Court of Auditors. Let the audience know in advance what the property condition is, what their income is and if there are any question marks that can cause concern. Even more interesting is the issue of choice, in general the procedure for hearing, proposing, nominating, movement of the two members of the Court of Auditors. I note that these two, as adopted in the Law, will continue to carry out their private activities, i.e. they will continue to work as long as they are members of the Court of Auditors. A complex procedure was also invented for them how they were offered by two NGOs. What is lacking in these rules is the following: there is no publicity of the proposals by the two NGOs. It is assumed that the President of the Court of Auditors, who has to propose them, will literally agree with the proposals of the two NGOs, that is to say, in advance, that the President of the Court of Auditors, who will elect the ruling majority, will be one obedient, one postal pigeon, who, from point "A" What if it doesn't? If it turns out that you have chosen one President of the Court of Auditors - hidden Vukkov, who has his own opinion and is not ready to agree to any proposal of a non-governmental organisation? [[Noise and lines.]] And this Vuchkov 2 in the Court of Auditors decided that it disagreed with these proposals because they do not meet the requirements or are in conflict of interest, or there is any other reason, so for the people, for the public, for the Bulgarian citizens it should be clear what NGOs have proposed, if the President of the Court of Auditors has agreed, did he not agree what his reasons are, why some refused to submit, why he imports others. We come to the most interesting part of these procedural rules, which, honourable Members, directly corresponds to some rules which have signed the two non-governmental organisations for nomination of members of the Court of Auditors. I pay attention to you, although it is about the election of a chairman, two vice-presidents and two ordinary members, the two ordinary members are actually extraordinary for two reasons: firstly, because they will be able to work both privately and as supreme auditors. Secondly, because their votes will be decisive for the acts of the Court of Auditors. I merely recall that decisions in the Court of Auditors are taken by four out of five votes, so these two will really define some very important things, for example: which organisations will be audited, what will be the order of conducting public audits, who first, who second? They will vote on audit reports so that these two members, although they are ordinary members, are extremely important and the way in which they will be nominated by the two NGOs and then cozyly voted by the parliamentary majority is outrageous. Therefore, I pay attention to what procedural rules the two NGOs have chosen, and in order to save time, I will focus only on the procedural rules of one of the two organisations. This is the Institute of Internal Auditors in Bulgaria. What requirements do they bet on? They make a requirement that the people who will nominate, the person who will propose to be their member, have paid membership and, notice, if the member of the Court of Auditors is elected, must sign an agreement with this non-governmental organisation. In this agreement, he undertakes to work for the interests of the Institute of Internal Auditors of Bulgaria and to strengthen the internal audit, i.e. one member of the Court of Auditors, who will continue to carry out a private audit activity, consulting and another, will continue to be a member of a non-governmental organisation, undertaking that as a member of the Court of Auditors, he will work for the interests of this non-governmental organisation that has promoted him. There are other very curious moments in these rules. For example, conflict of interest, which is extremely important. When we have allowed one person to work both consulting and another activity, while being a member of the audit authority, it is very interesting what measures are being taken to prevent it from falling into a conflict of interest. That is, not to receive money from two places from the one to be audited and from the one to which he will assess how the audit was carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u56	And why do lawyers work two jobs?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u57	What does the Institute of Internal Auditors say? By the way, I congratulate them on their honest position.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u58	Just a moment, Mrs. Manolova. We are discussing the rules of the National Assembly, not the Institute of Internal Auditors. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u59	Yes, but this is extremely important for conflict of interest. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] They say the following: The candidate for a member of the Court of Auditors must not be in a situation of serious conflict of interest. That is, he may be in a situation of unserious conflict of interest. [[Laughter and excitement.]] And further down, they explain why he might be in a serious conflict of interest, quite frankly. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]] The Institute says: "It is difficult to find an ideal candidate for whom there will be no form of connectivity within the meaning of the Conflict of Interest Act. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Therefore, exceptions to the above situations are admissible in respect of applicants for whom there are single or isolated cases of such conflict. That is to say, in the event of a serious conflict of interest, in single or isolated cases of conflict, the person concerned may be proposed and Parliament may conveniently vote for a member of the Court of Auditors. [[Laughter and excitement.]] In fact, it would be funny if it wasn't tragic, because we're here choosing not some support committee to parliament to deal with the entertainment part of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] We elect members of the Court of Auditors who have to carry out an objective, independent, impartial audit, and not people who may be in conflict may not be in conflict, they can work privately, they can work in the Court of Auditors, the issue is simply to be proposed correctly, properly raised and properly voted by the ruling majority. I propose to you, honourable Members, that these procedural rules be returned to the honourable Budget Committee and to the honourable President Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, that they be revised and, in a more serious manner, proposed in plenary. It is clear that you have agreed on both the President and the Vice-Presidents and the Members, but we must still have some respect for this House, some respect for the National Assembly, some respect for the lawyers of the National Assembly, or at least those of the ruling majority, because these rules for the election of members of the Court of Auditors, this approach is insulting at least to the lawyers of the ruling majority. If not for the Bulgarian citizens and for the Bulgarian institutions, for all entities that will be subject to an audit carried out by the Court of Auditors, because what we are telling them is: we are choosing you one body that will not be independent, which will not be impartial, which is very likely to be in conflict of interest in one situation or another, so be careful how you behave towards the authorities. I am also making a procedural proposal that this point should be terminated, and Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and the Budget Committee's proposal to be returned to them for revision, with a recommendation for a more serious attitude towards the Court of Auditors' choice. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u60	- What's the line? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I do not feel offended by the proposed Draft for Rules of Procedure, on the contrary, I believe that they correspond to their immense extent entirely to the practice so far with regard to the discussion and adoption of procedural rules. I would very much like to make an analogy with the procedural rules for selecting CEC members of both quotas. By making such considerations about symmetry of, let's say, the civil quota, remember what was the problem and drama with who and how listening to the so-called Presidential quota....from the members of the CEC and what chaos it created back in time. Speaking of conflict of interest, I would also ask you to recall what happened to the independent body CEC rule and the lawyers who are members of the CEC. It wouldn't have been acceptable for lawyers to be members of the CEC. It continues to be unacceptable, as a matter of fact, but I ask you to check in the current CEC how many members have not suspended their legal rights and whether there is a conflict of interest? Because I think there's a conflict of interest. A man who judges should still comply with some standard and criteria. So I suggest, first of all, you shouldn't judge, but if you're going to sue, take the standard and criteria procedure that was under the CEC. Also remember there whether we were looking at declarations of the estate of the candidates. It only seems to me, but, again, as a form of legal discussion, how much to discuss a 7-day or 14-day term, because the norm to sit the papers uploaded to the separate website of the National Assembly on this issue... The last paragraph of art. 89 explicitly states that the National Assembly for each such choice shall adopt separate rules. But I accept your thesis that in para. 1 is set one rule, which we should probably consider as a general rule and that there is a 14-day deadline. I apologize for the time, Mr. Chairman, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u62	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Second line, Mr. Peter Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I listened very carefully to you, I even wrote down, to tell you. But I have a very big request for you. I've been thinking about saying it for a long time, and I'm still holding back, but I'm really going to do it today. I beg you very much to speak in front of Parliament, not in front of a party assembly in Kyustendil! There are people here who have opened the Law, read the rules, things are still clear. I'm gonna go one by one so I don't have to be naked. First of all, you commented on the lack of a declaration of property. It is very clear from the Law on the publicity of property that such a declaration as regards the members of the Court of Auditors, the alternates and the President shall be lodged when elected. Similar type of proposals of preliminary control, or I don't know how to do it, once upon a time Yane Yanev made them, if you remember. But he, thank God, is not in this room right now. I don't see how, if it's not in the Law, we should write it in the rules and say: give now a declaration of property. It's just not possible, you understand it yourself, it's not gonna happen. If you want to change the Law already and have similar props in the selection, you know the legislative amendment procedure. Then, for the term, it was seven days. How many times have we reduced the deadline for proposals between the two readings under a bill, or have we extended them, and do I need to recall at all?! There is no problem with the decision of the National Assembly to amend the deadline. You also understand that very well, I don't see that as a problem. Seven days isn't a short term at all. Seems like enough to me. Moreover, the aim is to choose at one point this management of the Court of Auditors, unless, of course, your goal is not to choose such leadership and to drive with the old one, because such suspicions also exist. Then, for both organizations and the Institute of Internal Auditors. Here I expected you to explain to us again about the American conspiracy how they would propose a member of the Court of Auditors. Thank God you didn't explain that to us this time. Let me tell you, on the website of the Institute of Internal Auditors, I didn't see any of the things you're talking about. At least give them to the coworkers so we can see where they're from. If you've read them in the newspaper, it's another topic. I conclude with the fact that in Section III, an audition is very detailed as to how the proposals for members and vice-presidents are heard. So there's publicity to the procedure, there's no problem with that either. You're wrong here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u64	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Manolova, I also took notes because as a joke you jumped from topic to topic, you touched on many topics. Mrs. Manolova, weren't you the wrestler for having transparency, to give a chance to NGOs, organizations working in a particular field to have their representatives in certain structures that are elected by the parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria? You were that man! Why are you denying things so strongly protected by you now? I don't get it. If you could explain it to me. Let's get back to what you said. When you talked about the two organizations, Mrs. Manolova, in Bulgaria the organizations are two, there is no third, there is no other one to be. That's pretty clear to you! Why are you speculating about this? There are two organisations that are from this sector that work and have their representatives. These two organisations are sending their representatives so that there can be the transparency that you are fighting for, which you are only fighting for in words, and we are doing it in deeds. That's the difference. You propose that the debate be terminated, that the rules be revised. Why? In order for the nine members you have chosen to continue to receive their salaries and to put political pressure on certain people. That's what you're after right now. You're in pain, not anything else. I ask you again: why did you choose 9 members, since the Court of Auditors, as far as I know, let my colleagues correct me, does four audits. About what? So that you can please the party's obedients who continue to take their big paychecks. You're saying they're going to work two jobs. How do lawyers work? They sit here in the hall, they make laws, and then they go to the courts to defend. Is that right? That's right! Please, a little more serious! Don't lower the debate so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u66	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Manolova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u67	Honourable Members, Mr. President, honourable Members, who made a reply to me! I understand that the situation is more than awkward, it is quite confusing because the rules which one of the NGOs has announced for a proposal for a member of the Court of Auditors are publicly known. I can print them for you if you want, we can download them from the website together. The situation is awkward because the organisation itself, unlike the majority MPs, cannot tell the white black and has admitted that the person concerned, who will propose, cannot be in conflict of interest. That is, the management of the Institute of Internal Auditors has been more dignified than the representatives of the majority, recognising that the candidate who will broadcast will be in a situation of conflict. And he's trying not to be serious, to be single, to be isolated. As they could, that's how they wrote it. These rules are a fact and this is the greatest and most accurate assessment of the Law that you have created and which is absurd. In fact, these organizations are no longer non-governmental, they are pro-governmental, because in practice their representatives enter one body that claims to be the supreme audit body of the Bulgarian state. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Don't do any analogies at all with the choice of CEC members because there was real competition there. For the places in the CEC were competing twice more proposals made by various NGOs. There behind them stood specific political parties, which proposed them and specific organisations that raised them. Fact! [[Heckling]] In this case, a shameful game is being played. During the Institute, proposals of the parties from the ruling majority are being put forward. One for the reformers, one for the ABB. I don't know how you distributed them exactly. I don't know why you're worried about declaring the estate of the candidates. Excuse me, there is such a requirement for a number of public positions: for Chief Inspector, for members of the Supreme Judicial Council, for various important public positions. And here we also know the answer, because one of the candidates for a high position has inexplicable things in his property state. [[Replying and shouting.]] That's yet to be made clear! However, you would prefer that post-factum, after being selected, these declarations be released to the Court of Auditors and they check themselves. If you are not worried about anything, include this requirement in public rules. That wouldn't be a precedent. This is the standard practice of the National Assembly. As for Mr. Slavov's line, I will tell you that at party meetings people come more prepared than you. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] They don't speak frank nonsense because what is written in the parliamentary regulations is an imperative 14-day term.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u68	Time, Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u69	What happens with the proposals between first and second readings is in line with the parliamentary rules. The maximum time limit for proposals may be reduced to three days and to 28 days. We have a clear deadline here that you can't break if you want it to still be a parliament, not a meeting of the ruling coalition by choice of staff. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Was the proposal you made under procedure to postpone the debate? Mrs. Manolova, is this your proposal to postpone the debate? A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The procedure proposed by colleague Manolova was to end the debates and return the Budget Commission to revise the rules that we need to adopt. There is no such procedure under our Rules. Please don't let her vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u72	Mrs. Manolova, do you want to suspend or postpone the debate? [[Heckling]] I'm checking the transcript now. There's no way I'm putting a vote to an end. Are there any other statements? I won't. Let's start with the other suggestions. The first proposal is to add letters to I, i.e. 2 of the Project Decision. The letter "s' reads as follows: "The declaration of property status of the applicant, which shall be completed according to the model annexed to the persons who submit declarations under the Publicity Act of the property of persons holding senior state posts.' The statement of the candidate for President of the Court of Auditors' activity. First, I am voting on Maya Manolova's proposal to add a new letter to I, p. 2 of the proposed Rules. In the meantime, we have consulted the stenogram and the request was for an end to the debate, so there is no way to put it to a vote. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Please suspend the vote and declare the result. Vote 92 MPs: 8 against 69, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the proposal for a letter............................................................................................. 2, a new letter.......................................................................................... 90 MPs voted: 12, against 61, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. There was another proposal in point II... the first proposal, the number. 7.. is replaced by the number. 14..................................................................................................... is replaced with the Vote 85 MPs: 12, against 55, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. Any other speeches? I won't. I close the debates and vote on the draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-Presidents and two Members of the Court of Auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, together with the attached declarations "Annex 1 and Annex 2 to the Decision." The project itself was presented by the Chairman of the Budget Commission Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. Please vote. Vote 81 MPs: 74 against 3, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. The draft procedural rules have been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY ANKET COMMISSION ON THE FACTS AND ASSISTANCES RELATED TO THE ACTION OF STATE AUTHORITIES AND Mrs. Karayancheva, please come in from the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I offer to your attention a decision to set up a Temporary Committee of inquiry to examine the facts and circumstances related to the actions of state authorities and institutions which should have exercised control and countered the draining of the Corporate Commercial Bank in the period 2009-2014. The draining of KTB, which led to its bankruptcy, is the largest financial fraud in the new history of Bulgaria. As a result, nearly 4 billion were spent. BGN, funds from the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the banks in one with additional funds and from the state budget for the payment of the protected deposits, and many depositors lost irrevocably deposited funds in this bank. In this context, it is critical to monitor the timeliness and adequacy of the actions of state institutions which should have preventive effect and not allow such robberies by taxpayers. First is the key role of Bank supervision of the Bulgarian National Bank, which should, through regular remote control and on-the-spot checks, closely monitor compliance with good financial practices and take immediate action at the first symptoms of weaknesses. And so far it is not clear whether it is individual errors of managers or systemic problems in the way supervision works. A corporate commercial bank is a public company and should therefore be closely monitored by the C.F.R. So far, it is unclear whether the C.F.R. has taken any action. The draining of more than 5 billion. lv. It should be stopped and the guilty persons should immediately be held liable by the SANS and financial intelligence. If the DANS does not have the capacity to intervene decisively in large-scale financial fraud, national security is threatened. Parliament, as a senior legislative and control institution, must commit itself to setting up a committee of inquiry to clarify the above facts and circumstances, including to determine whether legal measures are necessary to tighten control in order to prevent such affairs in the future.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u74	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. I'm opening the debate. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I firmly support the establishment of such an inquiry committee. A huge number of Bulgarian citizens and companies suffered quite serious damage due to what happened last year around this bank. Many people in Bulgaria want the truth, not some covered and wrapped in a luxury package of half-truths, but the truth, as much as it hurts. I believe that the whole discussion has not paid enough attention to a few facts that I truly hope this Temporary Commission will not pass. Firstly, we have seen that the preliminary and ongoing control in the banking and capital sector is equal to zero, neither the BNB nor the Financial Supervision Commission have done their job, not covering even the lowest quality and reliability criteria. As a result, all Bulgarian taxpayers will have to pay the money borrowed from the state for years. Secondly, none of the leaders took personal responsibility for the huge mistakes made in their work. If they do not acknowledge their mistakes, why do we not hold them accountable to the end so that these problems will never be repeated again, since the demand for responsibility also has a preventive effect? Thirdly, I expect the Temporary Commission to come up with concrete proposals for changes to the current legislation, which clearly has many imperfections. I do not think it normal in May that the bank will be in excellent condition according to the Financial Supervision Commission and the Bulgarian National Bank, and a month after that it will turn out to be, according to the two institutions, again that it is in extremely miserable condition. The Bulgarian people deserve to understand the truth, so, colleagues, I expect real results and not to throw dust in the eyes of the people of this Temporary Committee of inquiry. We're firmly behind her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Binev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are now going to vote on the draft decision. ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the establishment of a Temporary Committee of inquiry to examine the facts and circumstances relating to the actions of the State authorities and institutions which should have exercised control and countered the draining of Corporate Commercial Bank between 2009 and 2014 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He set up a temporary committee of inquiry to examine the facts and circumstances related to the actions of state bodies and institutions which should have exercised control and countered the draining of a Corporate Commercial Bank in the period 2009 - 2014. We vote on it. 1. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. Point 1 has been accepted. "2." The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 of this Regulation. 1 shall consist of Members of Parliament from all parliamentary groups and their number shall be determined on a proportionate basis. We vote on it. 2. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2. Point 2 has been accepted. Please come in for a procedure, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I suggest we postpone this. 3 for the composition of the Commission because we are not ready yet. I think the other colleagues will agree next week.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u78	A reverse opinion? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u79	I am making a reverse proposal to adopt the composition of the Commission because, as you have understood, the vote has shown the importance of having such a Commission. It's not serious to tell me you're not ready. This debate has been held for two weeks in the couloirs, so be so kind as to offer yourself a candidacy and let this Commission work as quickly as possible. At the very least, this National Assembly has made a commitment and voted on a decision to elect an international firm to track the cash flows in a Corporate Commercial Bank. We can't just hang around and disappear and the capital of KTB doesn't know where and finally we can't collect anything. It's just that this thing is not serious!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u80	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. We vote on Ms. Tsveta Karayancheva's procedural proposal to postpone the vote on this. 3 and the entire Project Decision for the next weekly programme. Vote 84 MPs: 62, against 15, abstentioned 7. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want a re-voting procedure because I think there's been a mix-up in the room. Mr. Bayraktarov, this is not about one member. It is proportionate to the principle on which it needs to be chosen, and that means that we need to move some of the colleagues in the committees, which happened this week.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u82	She's a temporary committee. What kind of shift?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u83	Look, you can't burden people like that. We need those who go in there to do their job, not just appear as figures. So I think it's okay to postpone the adoption of this. 3 for next week so that all political forces can broadcast our representatives. Representatives who will be able to do the work for which they are sent there, not waste the time of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u84	Revoting procedure. Vote 84 MPs: 66 against 9, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. We're adjourned.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u85	Honourable Members, I request silence and order in this Chamber! Honourable Members, we continue with the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CLOSED AND ARGUED FORES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA - A sequel. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The statements on the Bill have been read. I see there's a transcript of speeches from various MPs. We are continuing in debate on the submitted bill. Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, once again it is time to look at the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in removing a weakness of the Law, defending a thesis that was missed during the writing of the Law, and when in 2010-2011 we made major adjustments to it. I say again, because this particular thesis, which I hope to conclude today, at least at first reading, is on the attention of the National Assembly for the third year already in three Parliaments, for one reason or another, relating not to the law itself, but to the work of the National Assembly and its termination in forty-fourth and its second edition, we failed to reach a vote on the law. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to tell you that in the two leading committees, these are the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Foreign Policy, these changes proposed by the Council of Ministers are adopted absolutely unanimously. The question now arises as to why we must have lengthy debates in order to justify the need for the National Assembly to approve these changes at first and second readings. It's about two cases. One case is for the service of Bulgarian officers, sergeants, soldiers and civilians in NATO organisations on the territory and outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The second case is for the term of service of habilitated military personnel. I'll take a detailed attitude on the first case. This is necessary because in the public space many words, multilateral and completely false views were exposed, which almost do not obey the Bulgarian generality, Bulgarian officers, sergeants and soldiers of officers from other NATO members armies. I would like to make it clear here that we still have all the categories of Bulgarian servicemen who serve under the command of officers from other countries whose armies belong to NATO. On the other hand, our officers have been in charge for more than 10 years in such international formations, officers, sergeants, soldiers and civilians of other NATO members, including Americans. Why do we have to make changes in art. 134, para. 1 of the Defense and Armed Forces Act to remove this flaw? When the Law was written and corrected, the case for Bulgarian servicemen and civil servants to serve at NATO headquarters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria did not exist and this was not reflected in the Law. Paradoxically, but it is a fact that we now want to remove in the Law says that all these categories of Bulgarian citizens can serve in NATO headquarters but outside the country's territory. Of course, I hope that this legal omission, with the full consent of all parliamentary represented political forces, including those who attacked him outside parliament, will be removed. We want to give legal grounds to all Bulgarian servicemen and civilians, including from other ministries outside the structures of the Ministry of Defence, to be able to serve in these headquarters. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 134, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act is described in detail at present where and how the service of the Bulgarian citizens is carried out, men and women, in the structures of the Ministry of Defence, the Armed Forces, the Bulgarian Army and it is not written that they are entitled to serve in the composition of multinational formations of positions corresponding to their rank, international organisations or other international initiatives, such as is the subject of this Law. I would like to tell you that at the moment I am shutting down the empty speaking that headquarters will be created, almost combat formations of NATO in the territory of Bulgaria and at the moment there is such headquarters in Bulgaria, it is called the Center for Research, Building and Improvement of NATO's capabilities for crisis management and response to disasters. He still exists. Our soldiers and civilians served in such formations and in the crisis in Kosovo and so on. In closing my speech, I would like to call on absolutely all MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria to give the opportunity, with this change in the Law, to Bulgarian citizens from and outside the structures of the Ministry of Defence to serve in NATO formations, of which we are already 11th year members, and in the territory of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u87	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. - What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u88	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u89	Before that, let's just wait for lines. Are there any lines to Mr. Toshev's statement? I can't see. Please come in for a procedure, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I would like a 15-minute recess.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u91	Thank you. I'm calling a 15-minute recess. Honourable Members, at 1:15 p.m., we will continue the meeting. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u92	Honourable Members, we continue with the debates on the Defence and Armed Forces Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria at first reading. I have three requests from the MP Yanko Yankov, Mr. Kancho Filipov and Mr. Plamen Manushev. Mr. Iankov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Bulgaria's quality and full integration into the NATO system is a top priority related to the country's national security. From this point of view, the position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is very clear: we have always supported everything that leads to our complete integration into the collective security system. This is from the time before Bulgaria became a member of NATO. You know we were one of the main factors that insisted in this direction. Dear colleagues, our parliamentary group will support this Bill because it enables even more quality and fuller integration of both the active servicemen in the Armed Forces system and the officers of the reserve. Dear colleagues, as a matter of fact, we should note that the current Bill has a very long history. For the first time he was introduced by colleagues from GERB in the face of the MP Dobroslav Dimitrov and a group of MPs. At that time we did not actually accept it, but not because of its philosophy, but because in fact at expert level it was understood that it was possible to implement a much better and quality legal technique that would achieve the same goal. I think this bill was tabled by colleagues in November 2013. Then, by the Council of Ministers in June 2014, a bill was tabled which we in the Defence Committee unanimously adopted. Now, in fact, this is the third bill, as the second bill could not pass due to the completion of the activities of the National Assembly. This is the third bill that we definitely believe should be supported by all the parliamentary groups. Why? First of all, as I said, it allows for a more complete and quality professional realization of Bulgarian servicemen. Their realization is very necessary because so far it has been quite limited and can now be realized in systems and collective bodies to which Bulgaria is a member or country. This is a gesture to our young staff who will be able to find their full professional realization. Dear colleagues, as a matter of fact, it is important to note here, in front of all the MPs, that wherever our servicemen serve and work, they receive extremely high marks, and that they deserve it. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not dwell on this subject in detail because the colleague who spoke before me, Mr. Toshev, has developed it in detail. However, I would like to add something else that I consider important. We also receive the opportunity for effective realization of our officers from the reserve system of the Confederation of Officers from the reserve of the NATO member states "CIOR." As Chairman of the Defence Committee in the past, the National Assembly was in a difficult situation to meet these people many times and very difficult to provide them with the necessary financial resources so that they could, for example, attend a Congress of the Confederation in Paris. You know that the President of this Confederation, elected in 2014, is Bulgarian. This is a great prestige for Bulgaria, honourable Members! From this point of view, we definitely believe that the current Bill enables the Ministry of Defence to realise this interest much more freely to the officers and sergeants of the reserve in Bulgaria for their participation in international structures through the budgetary instruments that it can also manage. My fellow Members, however, there is something that we consider to be a disadvantage of the proposed bill. I have spoken with my colleagues and we will try to change this flaw between first and second readings as legal technique. It is about the term for which the Bulgarian servicemen can be appointed three years plus an extension of one year. We believe that it is not necessary to fix this in the Bill. We must allow the appointing entity to assess, in accordance with the laws currently in force or on the specific occasion of the appointment and to set the time limit for the appointment of our servicemen. Why three plus one years?! You may have to do more than that. There are extremely serious expert positions in the NATO system, for which professional mastery is required a lot of time and a lot of effort - intellectual and professional. In our view, this should be an opportunity to assess the entity carrying out the appointment. A serious plus of the Bill is the possibility that civilians in the Ministry of Defence system can find better professional and hence better material realization. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to be very talkative. The bill at this stage has advantages that deserve support. They are a plus for the Bulgarian servicemen, for Bulgaria's integration into the NATO system and therefore, I say again, our parliamentary group, so is our call to all colleagues from parliamentary groups, will support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u94	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Any lines to Mr. Iankov's statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u95	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'm glad my speech preceded this to Mr. Iankov. I also urged the whole room to vote so that no thesis would come out, you see, for agreement or lobbying. Mr. Iankov, however, I would like to challenge you with regard to your remark about the term of service. The three years plus one year extra, if it is not fixed something else in other laws, which will be served outside or here in Bulgaria, are in full compliance with basically the Diplomatic Service Act, as well as with the regulations by which our servicemen serve abroad. I hope we will also write rules that concern the service here in Bulgaria. However, if we change this period within greater limits, we will put at a disadvantage all those who have served so far who are now or possibly on other lines will serve at our overseas offices. I believe that we should discuss this in the Commission and then see how we approach this issue. With regard to the legal technique, you are right in the Forty-first National Assembly we had disputes, but in essence nothing has changed. Now the technique is ironed. I don't think lawyers in all groups have any notes on this law either. Mr. Iankov, if you make a duplicate, I would like you to state, as I say, that right now because of the fact that lobbying cannot be about any other reasons than national security, so, colleagues, we are lobbying for Bulgaria, for the national security of Bulgaria. Who else says let's go out and say it here so that we can answer all other questions on this subject that are not clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u96	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Second line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Iankov, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Toshev, it is true, I absolutely agree that under the Diplomatic Service Act, things are the same, but it is not clear further how events will develop and in fact in what international structures our servicemen will be able to serve. They may not be directly related to the Diplomatic Service Act somewhere. In fact, the point of each bill is to regulate certain public relations over a long period of time. From that point of view, I meant to discuss it. I'm saying this not in vain, and I've consulted with experts in the Department of Defense's system. From this point of view, the idea is, perhaps, just to improve the bill, not in any way to interfere with something. As for lobbying, I believe that honor and dignity for every Bulgarian officer, whether active or out of reserve, is to lobby for national security. Whether he's lobbying properly or not depends on his arguments. I believe that everything that sounds from the platform, as our arguments in this direction, has no close political dimensions, but concrete instruments and mechanisms that only and only affect Bulgarian national security as a whole, for the whole Bulgarian nation, for the whole Bulgarian people, for the whole Bulgarian territory. And this is an extremely important issue on which we will be firm, consistent and never change course.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u98	Thanks for the tunic, Mr. Iankov. We continue with the following speeches. There is a request from the MP Kancho Filipov. Here you go, Mr. Filipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u99	Mr President, honourable Members, I, too, would like to say on behalf of our parliamentary group that we will support the amendments proposed in the draft to the Defence and Armed Forces Act, because, as my fellow Members have said before me, it is indeed most normal for all of us to support changes that are in the interest of our national defence, our armed forces. And we will support it for at least three reasons that are reflected in the proposed changes. First of all, the project proposes the creation of a legal opportunity, as my colleagues have pointed out before me, an international organization on the territory of the country to be assembled with Bulgarian servicemen and civilian staff of citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. Secondly, the conditions and arrangements for the secondment of civilian personnel to and outside the territory of the country and to overseas representations shall be laid down. It is also particularly important to us that the proposed changes also specify the provision of art. 160, para. 3 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act, with a view to clarity in its application to officers in military academies and higher military schools and scientific organizations who occupy the positions of associate professor and professor and those who hold executive positions for whom habilitated persons are required. In our opinion, the proposed amendments to the Defence and Armed Forces Act are timely, necessary, appropriate. I stress once again that we will support each other. I also call on everyone in this House to support them in order to improve the conditions under which our Armed Forces work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u100	Thank you, Mr. Filipov. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Plamen Manushev wishes to make a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The colleagues who spoke before me quite thoroughly motivated the importance of this law and its urgency. I would just like to add a few words as to why it is urgent to do so and why it is important to make these amendments to the Defence and Armed Forces Act to settle a gap that was in our legislation governing our service in international military formations and organizations in our territory. Mr. Iankov told the story of this bill. It has been for several years now, but mostly making these adjustments and amendments to the Defence and Armed Forces Act imposed the creation in November 2012 of the Centre for Research, Building and Improvement of NATO's crisis management capabilities. On this issue, it is quite worked by the Ministry of Defence to build such a Center on our territory, as there is such a center in the Netherlands. There was little desire from NATO's command to build this Center, and we believe that the third mission of the Bulgarian Army, as well as NATO's third mission, the strategic concept of NATO for crisis management, is extremely important, especially in the changing nature and changing climate of the Earth, especially in the territory of Bulgaria, things that have not been seen and have not been seen for hundreds of years. So this Centre has exactly such tasks to explore, build and improve the ability to manage these crises. This Centre will be at the methodological leadership of the Union Command on Transformations in Norfolk and in this centre two countries have agreed to participate. The adoption of these amendments to the Law will enable the Centre to really work. It was created 2012 with the Order of the Council of Ministers, we are already 2015 and there are letters in which the Union Command of Transformations wants the Centre to really work, and it can work when the people who work in it are legally there on duty. This Center was officially opened last year, so the importance of this amendment to the Law and its urgency is determined mostly by everything I just told you. This bill sets out a few more things that were not regulated in our legislation and especially in the Defence and Armed Forces Act, and this is the service of civilian employees, non-state officials and employees in the Ministry of Defence on labour relations. These amendments to the Law settle matters concerning the secondment of these civilian employees to service such organizations on our territory, also their financing and their disciplinary responsibility. This was not regulated in the Law on Defence and Armed Forces and other laws concerning the work and service of citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria in international organizations and structures and overseas representations. Also in this Bill in its final provisions governs the service of employees of the Ministry of Interior, civil servants, employees of the Ministry of Interior in similar international organisations or international formations on our territory. This problem has also not been resolved, and thus in this Center for building and improving NATO's crisis management capabilities, in its composition there are and there will be representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Health. In its composition of 50 people only 27 are for the Ministry of Defence, 10 are for employees from Greece and Poland and the rest are for the other ministries and institutions in Bulgaria. This Center can only be useful not only for building these capabilities and improving NATO, but also for building and improving our country's capabilities, our institutions and the population of Bulgaria to respond to disasters, accidents and disasters. My colleagues before me were talking about CIOR. I want to tell you why it's important. Because we have experienced this shame there is also a president of CIOR, it is an inter-Union confederation of the officers from the reserve of the NATO member states. There are members and other countries in it. Taking over the presidency, we had not financially provided it and it was extremely difficult for Minister Angel Naydenov to provide funds for it. It was a great shame that the president of the Confederacy couldn't go to a Confederate Congress. That's where we were. This draft amendment in § 10, which is proposed, governs the financing of this presidency for 2015. Otherwise, believe me, it was a great shame for the first time in the history of this organisation, and it is more than 60 years, the presidency will fail for financial reasons, i.e. the failure to secure the funding from the state president, having it president. So this amendment to the Defence and Armed Forces Act is also important. I understand our group will support you. I propose that we all support this Bill, which is important for the activities of the Ministry of Defence and the other institutions in relation to the service in international organizations and formations in our territory. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u102	Thank you, Admiral Manushev, for your speech. - What's the line? I can't see. Anyone else who'd like to speak? Mr. Siderov raises his hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u103	This greeting will be heard by the Bulgarian servicemen after accepting these disgraceful amendments to the Defence and Armed Forces Act. This will be heard about the Bulgarian soldiers! There's no one to fool, no one to lie to with the sweet, honey-talking that floats out of this tribune. The six-year coalition is preparing to accept amendments by which Bulgarian soldiers on Bulgarian territory will be commanded by Turkish officers! My advice to the Bulgarian servicemen, how many of them are still left, is to start learning Turkish, as they will be commanded in Turkish. The NATO brothers will command them and tell them what to do. These repairs are being adopted quickly, urgently, fire department. I'm not going to say firefighters, because that's what Washington wants! And until when will the military minister and other representatives of the ruling six-year coalition go to the TV studios and lie that Siderov scares someone with war, and there was nothing like that?! That Siderov said that a NATO military centre would be opened here, that there would be a NATO base and that we were on the front line that was not true at all! It is a good thing that your Washington masters disprove you, and I quote: The Pentagon will use Bulgaria to deter Russia and that is what Deputy US military minister Christine Wormott said during a congressional hearing. Your Pentagon chiefs say so, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling six-seat coalition. [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] In Wormott's words, the US has already taken a number of measures, including ensuring their essential military presence in the Baltic countries, Poland, Romania and Bulgaria. Three times the presence and so on. And what does your favorite Carrie who comes here say? Not the actor Jim Carey, but John Carey, who was here recently, too. What does he say at a heated meeting and discussion at the Foreign Committee of Congress? Says the following: "Bulgaria is on the line of fire" in the relations "understand the asymmetrical war between Washington and Moscow." On the line of fire, along with some other countries I have pointed out. In conclusion, another information from the Bulgarian information resources.. I do not know if you have not seen it, NATO has a Military Communication Centre in Varna. In Varna, not Sofia! Okay, when I said that in Shabla there would be such a Center that it would coordinate NATO's enhanced military presence here, that all this is directed against Russia and that we, Bulgaria, are in plans to deter Russia, as Mrs Wormott says... What exactly are we going to stop and how are we going to stop Russia? This answer please give me when you stand here pleading for these amendments to the Law. These amendments to the Law make Bulgaria a final unsovereigned state for a long time, but most importantly, we are being made a non-compromising contractor of military orders that will serve American interests. We become a front, we are on the line of fire. That's what the D.C. chiefs tell you. That is why the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" will vote against "Attack." I call on the others to vote against you if there is still some strong thinking left in you. Because the steps you are now taking with these amendments are very, very dangerous for Bulgaria. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u104	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. You managed to bring energy into the debate. I see there's a desire for lines. Admiral Manushev, you were the first to ask for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Siderov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Only part of your speech will I make a line. If I make one all the way through your speech, I must speak for a long time. By what you have read that a Communication Center is being built near Varna, I want to give you an explanation. This is according to NATO's 2006 management plans. For the Navy it is planned to make such a centre to manage our forces at sea. Since 2006, it's not now! And right now, money has been found, and the advert on the Ministry of Defense's website is looking for supervision on how it's going to be built. This Communication Centre includes means for the management of NATO ships and Bulgarian ships, as their communication systems are identical so that they can operate on a sea of remote distances, not just along the coast. So this Center was built a long time ago. It seems to me that it is a coincidence that it should happen a lot earlier, but it is also important for the management of our warships, and for the management of... [[Relations from the Center: "And the Russians! "]] No, Russian ships are not compatible with some of their funds. But in these years, if nothing else is being built and they don't have any serious combat capabilities, they have communication tools to manage and act jointly in single battle groups or for ships to provide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u106	Thank you. Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Siderov, especially for myself, I have at least one reason more than you to consider myself more patriotic because I have taken out my bread with professional patriotism. I am an officer, Colonel of the Bulgarian Army, of the Bulgarian Army! And I would not in any way allow myself to congratulate you with "Maraba, yurush!" or with "Zdravstvstvutite," soldat!. [[Applause and laughter by GERB.]] We are in the Bulgarian Parliament! One topic that is so clear and so much time we have been talking about it for a third year already, you are turning it into cheap populism and empty talk: how Turkish officers... Yes, Turkish officers I don't know if some of your people, you certainly weren't there, but I've worked with them. They are wonderfully educated in France, in England, in America. And they're speaking a few languages except Turkish, which you know badly, and so do we. Don't politicize a topic that is very much above the party "Attack" over the party GERB and any party in Bulgaria, not only in parliament. This is our national security and our national self-awareness, and that we are on the front line yes. Here's North Africa, here's the Middle East. Unfortunately, our beautiful country has always been on the front line. At the moment, we are facing a historic choice to finally determine the right ally in our history. And here it's up to us. [[Applause from GERB.]] It's a good thing it's not just up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u108	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Third line? Mr. Siderov, you have an opportunity for the back. Dear colleagues, I just remind you that congratulations and speeches in the Bulgarian Parliament are in Bulgarian! Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u109	To Mr. Manushev first to tell him that this command center, that he will command Bulgarian ships, I see an opportunity such as one if he commands fishing vessels. This will increase the catch of horse mackerel, for sure. [[Applause by "Attacka."]] I can congratulate him, but we just don't have warships anymore. Alas, unfortunately. So once again you're trying to move away the truth, but it can't move away because it finally shines. As for Mr. Toshev for being on the front line and always being on the front line, it doesn't mean we have to make the wrong decision. You say it yourself: we must choose the right ally. I am ready to really make a broad discussion on this subject, if you want, here in Parliament. If you want, where you say we can argue if this is the right ally, whether you're going in the right direction. This is a very important topic. Understand that there is great interest in society. And I, when I speak here, express the worries of many, many Bulgarians. Have a discussion, have a public discussion. Why are you running away from this? Why don't you even want the TVs to get involved here when these topics are being discussed? Because it was routine. It's not routine! What you're preparing right now is an escalation in military tension. Bulgaria participates in this escalation. If that's why you say it's a routine thing, usually, and there's nothing wrong with it, we can argue. Don't run away from an argument. We don't have to trade... We can practice, of course, in artistic images and in irony. It's okay. The important thing is that you are going to a substantial solution, a significant step and this is done without public discussion, without a broad public discussion. And you make it look like something innocent. You didn't answer. In fact, you agreed that there would be a base in Varna, didn't you, Mr. Manushev? You agreed we were a line of fire. Then why are you denying it on TV and saying: "Siderov is lying! No, Siderov doesn't lie. You're preparing here an escalation of military tensions. That's just what you have to admit. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Any other speeches? Mr. Bayraktarov. You're going out on the stand with technical training. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u111	Rules don't forbid it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u112	It's not forbidden, as long as you don't fit in time and engage...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u113	Mr. President, since the Rules do not prohibit the use of technical means to be as precise as possible, I have to use this technical tool called a computer file. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u114	Please, on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u115	Dear colleagues, indeed this Bill is very important. However, from the mixed statements I began to get confused and to find out why I am confused, I will allow myself to read you an article from C. "Democracy" written in 1991 [[Noise and lines, calls by "Attack."]] The article has a name...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u116	Mr. Bayraktarov, if it's not relevant, I'll cut you off. I'll listen to you carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u117	There's an attitude on the subject. Mr. Chairman, don't interrupt me. [[Radio, loud noise in the hall.]] There's an exact attitude to the subject. The article is named: "Let's free Alyosha from duty!" [[Radio, laughter, MPs from "Attacka" surrounding the stands.]] The army of the Russian Federation is a guard of peace.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u118	Mr. Bayraktarov! Please, this is your final warning. Please speak on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u119	Mr. Chairman, please! That's on the subject. [[People from Ataka, standing in front of the stand, are shouting, replicating the speaker. People's representative Desislav Chukolov: Deputies from other parliamentary groups also surround the stands. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u120	Quaestors, step in!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u121	Mr. Chairman, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u122	Maraba, asker! Kosir on the Turkish Asker!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u123	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Chairman, you have no right... [[Loud noise and lines.]] You're taking away my opportunity...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-05.u124	I'm adjourned. [[Loud noise and lines.]] The meeting is adjourned! [[PHONE RINGING]]
