ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] One message: in relation to the end of the parliamentary session of the parliamentary groups, generalized materials on legislative activity and parliamentary control were provided during the last session, and the entire calendar year, including the three sessions of the National Assembly. Honourable Members, according to our weekly programme as the first point today, we should discuss and vote: PROJECT OF THE PERSONAL CHANGE DECISION IN THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. It was introduced by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 December 2015. At the beginning, I propose that we adopt a procedural decision allowing the proposed Minister of Justice Mrs. Ekaterina Mihaylova to enter the Chamber. [[Loud laughter, raging in the hall.]] I'm sorry, Zaharieva. Colleagues, it's very nice to have the whole room on my back. Please vote. Vote 174 MPs: 160 against 7, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, please invite Mrs. Zaharieva. With a letter in my letter. No 502-03-22 of 16 December 2015 the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Borisov informed me that the Minister of Justice Mr. Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov has resigned and asked to be released as a member of the government. With the content of the letter, the draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the CV of the proposed Minister of Justice Mrs. Ekaterina Spaseva Gecheva-Zaharieva will introduce us to the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u2	Where's the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to explain: the Prime Minister is at an extremely important final European Council in Brussels. Therefore, as deputy prime minister, I will present the proposal to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers' decision on personal changes proposes the following: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the decision of the National Assembly on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 7 November 2014 and the decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 11 March 2015. HAS DECIDED 1. He released Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov as Minister of Justice. 2. He elected Minister of Justice Ekaterina Spasova Gecheva-Zaharieva. The decision is to be adopted by you if you support it. Mrs. Zaharieva's biographical reference reads as follows: She was born August 8, 1975. She has graduated from the Language School of Bertolt Brecht, Pazardzhik with German language studies. Master of Law from the University of Plovdiv. From 2001 to 2003 he was a lawyer. In 2003, she was appointed legal counsel and since 2007 she has been Director of the Legal and Administrative Service Directorate at the Ministry of Environment and Water. Since August 2009 he has been Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works with Resorts: legislation, construction of the territory and projects, state ownership, housing policy, concessions, GRA, regional development, commercial companies and state enterprises. There are specializations in the project "For good public regulation: institutionalisation of the impact assessment process in the state administration", Consortium Jacobs &amp; Associates Jurel Limited; under European law;........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On 23 January 2012, the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was appointed Secretary General of the President. From 13 March to 29 May 2013 he was Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works in the caretaker government appointed by President Rosen Plevneliev. From 6 August to 7 November 2014 is Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Policy, Minister of Regional Development and Minister of Investment Design in the caretaker government appointed by President Rosen Plevneliev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. I'm opening the debate. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! Reading the biographical data of the candidate for Minister of Justice, it is clear that Mrs. Zaharieva has passed through the entire political spectrum of the constitutional majority, starting from 2007 at the Ministry of Environment and Water, then led by the DPS, gradually passing through GERB, as Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Minister in the two offices of Raykov and Bliznashki, appointed by Mr. Plevneliev and subsequently by the Secretary-General of the Presidency. Of course, this clearly prejudges Mrs Zaharieva's candidacy as appropriate, precisely in order to balance competing groups in this constitutional majority. I quote you, Mrs. Zaharieva, and do you otherwise share his opinion that lack of judicial reform is a prerequisite for poverty? Are you going to conveniently silence the real, main, top reasons for the horrific poverty in Bulgaria, such as a 16 billion loan that has brought us into a debt spiral and doomed poverty generations ahead, the freezing of all social payments, the impossible access to healthcare and education, constitutionally guaranteed in this.. bad, imperfect, interfering with your grand reform Constitution? This reform turned out to be just an expansive attempt to redeploy influence in the judiciary. If you don't want to keep quiet, the question is: what are you doing in this government? Because self-assessment of preparedness is not enough to take responsibility and determine the right policy for dealing with problems in the judiciary and in the state. Because there, Mrs. Zaharieva, where there is a convenient for the government and their encouraged humiliating poverty, there is inevitably corruption. Free democracy, which confirms the majority's right to participate in political decision-making, needs legal state-building. Democracy and the rule of law form an inseparable unity. Under the rule of law, all these principles and methods must be understood which protect the freedom of the individual and guarantee his participation in political life. The state of law is the radical antipod of the police state and state of arbitrariness, where those who express a different opinion or disapproval to the authorities are threatened by the repressive sovereign function of the state. And if they, the citizens, are brought to justice, the judge behaves as the function of political leadership, as there is no principle independence of jurisdiction. In such systems, court proceedings are only one of the many organizational techniques used by the government. This ugliness, which materializes increasingly and distinctly, after only a year and something management of this government, Mrs. Zaharieva, is not decided by continuing something that has not actually started. There's no reform. There is only a colorful spectrum of interests, lensed in table coalitions and subsequently implanted, embedded in the poor Constitution. The main pillar and guarantor of the rule of law is justice, whose guiding principles are the legality in establishing the truth, the proving and motivating of judicial acts, publicity, accessibility and transparency in all phases of the judicial procedure, the unity of the judicial system implementing it, and not the establishment of castes, because that is what happened with the adopted amendments to the Constitution, which I understand you are in favour of. Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, competition and equality of the parties in the process, impartiality and political neutrality of the judicial panel, which is immediately lost when the toga is on the stairs and not in the courtroom of the Court of Justice, right of the parties to available and competent legal assistance in the process, participation of citizens and civil society in its implementation. The failure to follow these fundamental principles is the problems in the judiciary's system, not reforming reforms, and you understand through the Constitution, which changed, I dare say, definitely distanced it from these fundamental otherwise principles. I know even dead fish can swim along the stream. The path you intend to go on is not the right one. This reform has been initiated upside down, it is stillborn, and you intend to follow it along the current. This leads to the logical conclusion that there is no state, real, visionary, deep view of the mechanism for real and necessary reform of the judiciary's system. Which is why we cannot afford to support this government and you in the pursuit of dead fish along the current. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u6	- What's the line? I won't. Before I give the floor to Mr. Enchev, just to recall the time available to the parliamentary groups: GERB In total, the debate time is 60 minutes, with the possibility of extending parliamentary time, which you know is being made upon request on behalf of an appropriate parliamentary group. There's a word for it, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u7	Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Today, in the Bulgarian Parliament, the principle of negative selection will triumph for which way. I mean, the less prepared you are for a job, the better your chance of taking it. This principle, honourable Members, won about a year ago when a justice minister became a man without a single day's internship as a judge, prosecutor, lawyer or university professor. Moreover, the honourable Mr. Ivanov also proved to be disbarred. And that is exactly the kind of minister of justice, honourable Members, presided over the meetings of the Supreme Judicial Council and declared himself the author of radical reforms in the judiciary, although in my opinion, the reforms had to start from him. In a moment, the majority will certainly elect a justice minister who, professionally, with all due respect to the lady, is a mirror image of the former minister of justice. Unlike Mr. Ivanov, Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva has professional experience not in NGOs, so-called NGOs, but in the state administration. But is it right, I ask, to elect a justice minister with an entirely administrative biography just because he has a legal degree? By the way, for the first time in 25 years Bulgaria will have a Minister of Justice who has not graduated from the Law Faculty of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. However, the more curious thing is that for the second time in the mandate of this cabinet as Minister of Justice will be appointed a person who is part of the Head of State's environment. And since the Head of State's first favorite failed, what are the guarantees that this will not happen to the second Head of State? I remind you that Mrs. Zaharieva was fully reminiscent of her predecessor's reforms, which means she will want to, she will lobby for three absurd things. Let me remind you of them: firstly, a clear vote on the Supreme Judicial Council; secondly, an increase in the parliamentary quota in the prosecutor's college; and thirdly, the most absurd, the new Deputy Prosecutor General, who will control the Prosecutor General. Its reform will aim three things: firstly, the abolition of the democratic vote in the Supreme Judicial Council in order to control magistrates; secondly, control over prosecutors by politicians, which is unacceptable; and thirdly, even more aggressive control over the chief prosecutor than his deputy. I think almost everyone here should agree with my opinion. In fact, the last insane exercise for the control of the Deputy Prosecutor General over the Prosecutor General was applied exactly one year ago at the Military Ministry, when a party across the street was appointed a Deputy Minister, who had to control the work of another Deputy Minister of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which was an absurd experiment and we all know how it ended. That is why I would like to conclude: it is sad to say, but the madness of this government has no end, which is why any normal MP who thinks with his head and not with his party book should vote against this appointment and insist on the Minister of Justice to be appointed an expert graduate of the Faculty of Law of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u8	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, honourable MPs! Today is another personal change to the Council of Ministers. And for the general public, and here in the National Assembly, the main question comes down to the personal qualities of the proposed minister, Mrs. Zaharieva. No one in the ruling majority wants to discuss, does not want to comment on how from now on the government's judicial policy will develop, in justice, how the government will interact with the judiciary, how it will interact and what it will offer to the attention of the National Assembly as legislation the government. Is there any change in the views of the so-called 2010 Strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers on commercial grounds, submitted to today's Registry again for advertising reasons at the beginning of the year to justify amendments to the Constitution? A year has been lost for the first draft for a constitutional change and a second historical compromise that we saw ended a few days ago with the resignation of the justice minister. These are the serious problems of the justice policy in Bulgaria. He has no idea how the government thinks, and with its representative in the Supreme Judicial Council, from now on to improve the functioning of the Supreme Judicial Council. There is no answer why the former minister who resigned did not find the opportunity to persuade the Supreme Judicial Council that the Supreme Court of Cassation should carry out its constitutional functions, to bring here to take account of the report of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Judicial Council. Strange silence, which shows only one thing, that even today the personal changes proposed by the prime minister, for whom he obviously does not wish to appear in plenary to motivate and defend them personally, are yet another attempt to attach the situation in the executive power, the attachment of a failed policy for which there is no chance that he has a vision of how to get out of it. What to do in the area of prisons that are currently in extremely difficult condition, crowded? What are the views of the government that must be realised by the minister, who will shortly be put to the vote in terms of penal policy, when the condemned are waiting for months and years to enter for punishment? How are the objectives of punishment achieved? Is there money in the budget and is there support in the government to pay attention to this particular part of the policy in the sector? No. And since there is no answer to all these questions, it is obvious that it is about a formal vote, an imitation of stability and an assembly of the cabinet. Saken will be the resigned minister, or a new minister will be elected, and nothing will change. There's nothing to talk about politics. Dear Members of Parliament, this will continue to generate instability not only in the justice sector. The instability that our European partners see every day and wonder in what diplomatic and non-diplomatic language to tell us what to do. Yesterday's recognition of the Prime Minister's complete inability to solve the problems in the justice sector, with the invitation of European experts to come to Bulgaria to lead justice, is a fundamental contribution in the history of Bulgaria... You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u10	Yeah, it's extended, you've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u11	...in the realization of justice policy. This is a recognition that today's proposal for a staff of the cabinet has only a formal nature, and the real intention is to bring experts from abroad to solve the problems in the sector. A greater recognition of the government's inability to deal with this sector could not have. That is why we from BSP left Bulgaria will not support this personal change. We will not support it, because after it everything will remain the same without political vision, without clear horizons, without understanding of the necessary major legislative changes, which are necessary for a fairer, faster justice in Bulgaria. With a confused situation at the Supreme Judicial Council after the constitutional changes, with ambiguities will there be resignations there, or will I not hear from the radio this morning that members of the Supreme Judicial Council were about to go out there, these are all issues that are somehow aside from the personal question about Ms. Ekaterina Zaharieva. We strongly, as a true opposition, will not support the personal changes in the cabinet and state very clearly: Borisov's government has no vision and understanding of the policy in this sector. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u12	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Slavov, after him, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u13	Dear President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, dear Mrs. Zaharieva! From the Reformation bloc, as has become clear, we do not have a single decision to support or not to support, and my colleagues will vote on conscience. But from what we have been listening to so far in this House, I hear things about real opposition, severe criticism, as if we are not discussing your candidacy, but the ten-year development in the area of Justice. In fact, I wonder, hearing here about a real opposition, why the real opposition voted precisely for the wrong quotas the other day when the constitutional changes changed and supported them. What is this opposition and how real is it? But that's another topic I'm not going to get into. More importantly, what I would like to say and address Mrs. Zaharieva is that for us, especially for our colleagues from the Civil Quota in the Reformation bloc, and we are five people, for those who do not know, it was particularly important that these days we really hear what society thinks about what is happening. What we did was go and hear the people from the protest, talk to the Union of Judges, talk to all the organizations that expressed reservations about what was happening and about this replacement of judicial reform. This is what worries us, and this is the reason why we cannot give you support in an advance we will vote abstention, at least in the part of the civil quota. However, the more important thing that I would like to say to you is that the firm position that was heard the other day by representatives of the political parties in the Reformation bloc, in some ways perhaps under our influence and under the influence of the talks we had, has been mitigated, perhaps other colleagues will also vote abstention. That is, we have a problem with giving once again trust in advance, given that we already see two really decent, motivated ministers leaving this office, and it goes not because they haven't done their job, not because they haven't worked actively, but they have resigned. They give them to themselves because they do not find parliamentary support for reforms, they do not find any other support they need to carry them out. I believe that today you will get the necessary majority, but the more important issue that I think is before you is: is it, in the future, when you really need to make the bold reforms, will you have the necessary majority and then will there be a withdrawal from the signature, as happened that day with some colleagues? Then, for the concrete reforms that we call on you to be active and brave, you will receive support from us and we will insist that they be carried out. To be carried out in the way that society expects, to be carried out radically, to be carried out so that we really have an independent court and a accountable prosecutor's office, and not to have out of control and doubts about political interference and cadrement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u14	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? First line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Slavov, it is good that you declare that you do not know where you are in the government, in the opposition, you are angry, historical compromises, Constitution... And your opposition is to blame for what you left once, you have brought it nowhere, the second time a great, historic majority. You're still dissatisfied. And some kind of group, some kind of sect here in the right space. [[noise and lines]] I do not know to whom, for there is no need to justify yourselves, no one listens to you. [[Elevator bell dings]] There is no need, to whom are you for your own political frustration and obvious uncertainty: where are you? In opposition or in power? Where are you? [[Radio, noise and lines.]] You don't know where you are and you want to convince people where you are. Thanks. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u16	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u17	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mikov, I think we know quite well where we are, but you, in fact, with your reply, had to answer my basic question, which I made to the left and to the left: why the other day did you support the shifting of quotas? Every single one of you voted, every one of you voted, look at the transcripts,................................................................................................. That's the interesting question you haven't answered. You are both against, and you support this displacement, which is the main problem and which is why people are talking about replacing. In fact, if you'd like to come, I'll take you to the courthouse protest to talk to the judges and see what they have to say. I just want to warn you that there's no reverse and no exit, so when you go, there's talk all the way! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u18	Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part in the deliberations? Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u19	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! These days the question was asked many times whether the Movement for Rights and Freedoms would support the proposed changes in the composition of the Council of Ministers. I think that the first answer to this question should be given to those who have chosen this cabinet, those who make up the so-called ruling majority, a ruling coalition, to which this government owes its mandate and the chance it is given to govern the country. Unfortunately, we see, including from a few moments ago, that even among the ruling coalition there are fluctuations, there are uncertainties, reservations as to whether they will support the changes proposed by the Prime Minister. How can you then expect opposition support for something that you are not convinced of yourself whether it is right or wrong? The Movement for Rights and Freedoms within the Forty- Third National Assembly since its very establishment is positioned as a constructive opposition of the now-seeking opposition, which declares at the very beginning that it will support any good idea, any constructive vision for the better development of the country and solving the ill-fated problems, while never compromising those ideas and principles that made Bulgaria a European democratic state that helped Bulgaria become a member of the European Union and NATO. One of the most important missions, one of the most important commitments that the whole society and our European partners expect and expected from this government, is to continue and bring to a successful conclusion the so-called judicial reform. If you remember, at the beginning of the mandate of the Forty- Third National Assembly was voted by all of us an updated strategy for continuing judicial reform. Unfortunately, a year and a half after this act, we must find that nothing tangible, nothing concrete has happened in the direction of continuing judicial reform, except for the recent changes we have adopted in the Constitution. Despite the continuing mantra declared intentions, commitments, promises of judicial reform by the outgoing team of the Ministry of Justice, except, as I said, amendments to the Constitution, nothing else was tabled as a commitment, such as a real legislative initiative to incarnate in real parameters of what is the vision of the rulers for judicial reform from now on. You remember that at the beginning of the term a draft amendment of the Law on the Judiciary was tabled by a group of MPs from GERB, which was abandoned. And since then, by the team of the Ministry of Justice, nothing has happened to the organisation of the judiciary, nor, which is even more important, if we accept the apologies of the team of the Ministry of Justice that they have been waiting for constitutional changes to make appropriate amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, it could have prepared for at least a year and a half to bring in and we could have accepted...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u20	That would mean in the mandate of the 40th National Assembly, Mr. Kazak! A year and a half has no life this National Assembly! Consider the months.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u21	I leave you with the exact mathematics calculations, Madam President. At least they could have amended other laws, especially procedural laws, which would have led to speeding up the trial, solving the ill-fated problems in the functioning of the judiciary. And none of this was done. How do you want us to give carte blanche to continue something that didn't happen from the beginning? We have supported the amendments to the Constitution and have thus given our clear signal that we are for judicial reform, but not in the way the Minister of Justice was trying to push it into resignation, because judicial reform, as well as reform in every other sector, in order for this reform to happen, must be first, well thought out, widely discussed and widely accepted by all interested parties, whether it be political parties, if it is expected legislative initiatives, whether it be professional circles, those directly affected by these changes. In order for this reform to happen, there had to be dialogue, there had to be a dialogue that did not happen; there had to be commitment; there had to be commitment, there had to be involvement of all the professional guilds, there had to be wide support from the very beginning, not to try to be stubborn despite everything, and despite all of us to push through some radical ideas that had nothing to do with the current constitutional framework, which the Grand National Assembly has bequeathed to us as an active Constitution and the distribution of powers between the Grand and Simple National Assembly. These attempts, despite everything and despite all, to push through such radical ideas have naturally suffered their collapse and we expect the new minister to radically change the Ministry of Justice's approach in this area if he expects our support if he expects things to happen. We expect from the new minister, if elected, to bet on dialogue, on the demand for broad consensus and, above all, the commitment of all interested parties, and not to rely only on the support of one word magistrate's organization, but to seek the broad support of all terms, all guils in the judiciary, to seek the support of all political forces and to propose a package of reforms that will convince us that after their adoption things in the judiciary will change really for the better, and not for the worse. We have no doubt, no criticism of the professional, expert qualities of the proposed application. She has, of course, her qualities. It is also evident that there is administrative and management experience, unfortunately, that there is also no experience in the judiciary. This may also be a disadvantage, it may also be positive, as long as the person really compensates for this disadvantage with work, with openness, with willingness to cooperate, consent and seeking a common solution for continuing judicial reform. But since we see that within the ruling majority and at present there is no clear vision, there is no common idea, there is no common project on how to continue this reform, when we see that even among the radical reformers there are fluctuations, how can you expect us to support a proposal, when apparently the rulers themselves are not convinced that this is the right person?! Therefore, we will not support this proposal, and we will expect, if it is adopted, we will require a new approach from the future team of the Ministry of Justice to convince us that the proposed reforms are the right ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u22	Any lines to Mr. Kazak? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u23	Dear Madam President, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! There is a proposal made after Hristo Ivanov resigned from the Prime Minister for a new Minister of Justice in the face of Ekaterina Zaharieva. From the GERB Parliamentary Group we will support the candidacy because we know that this is the right thing to do today, because today's support for the candidacy made by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov means stability for the government and today's government. We are all witnesses, and we know that today's government has no alternative. I am extremely impressed by Mr. Mikov's statement that they are consistent and permanent opposition to today's government, but I would like to thank them for the fact that when there is a dialogue, there is also a compromise that is guided only by the national interest. Another is the question of our partners from the Reformation bloc, because a small part of them have stated their principled position that they are going into opposition. Dear colleagues who have gone to opposition, you just don't belong where you're sitting right now. [[Applause from GERB, BSP LB and BDZ.]] Go where the clear opposition is expressed in the face of BSP left Bulgaria, or the independent MPs sitting at the last line [[noise and lines]] Because in politics you have to be consistent and sincere to voters. When we made today's cabinet a year ago, which has been returning to Bulgaria's trust for a year now, I can clearly tell you that what we have done together in the initial stage has already had its results, and the results have been prominent....................................in early 2015 has been adopted Strategy for Judicial Reform...................... I would like to thank Mrs Ekaterina Zaharieva, who has the necessary administrative capacity, for succeeding in the short time after her nomination to hold workshops with all the parliamentary groups that form today's parliamentary majority. Today, even as far as I am informed, held a working meeting with the Bulgarian Democratic Center so that they can make their right decision. I am convinced that in the coming weeks and months it will be available, if necessary, meaningful debate, to hold working meetings with both the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the BSP left Bulgaria, and with the "Attack" because the goals set by today's government are to seek broad parliamentary support so that we can carry out the reforms that each of us is talking about on a daily basis. I don't think we should increase pressure degrees, and we should give Mrs. Zaharieva credit. I am convinced that with the team of Mr. Borisov and all the ministers who are here today, they showed that they have the capacity and can actually achieve the planned goals. Each government has its shortcomings, but believe that today's government managed to collect over 2 billion more revenue from the Revenue Agency within this financial year. [[Noise, lines and laughter from BSP LB.]] I can say that the team that Bulgaria has today is the best we can have today as a government, and it is without an alternative, and you know it very well because only a month and a half ago the Bulgarian voters said that this is the right policy and the right government that our country has today. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u24	Any lines to Mr. Tsvetanov? I won't. To make a statement there is Mrs. Tasheva, then Mr. Kenov, Mr. Delchev, Mr. Kadyev. [[Big part of GERB MPs and some of DPS and BSP LB leave the hall. Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva is also leaving the hall. Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I gave Mrs. Tasheva the floor. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, no movement in the hall! [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u25	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The nomination of Ekaterina Zaharieva as Minister of Justice reveals the fatal deficit of professionalism and government in the one who nominated her. He proposes to us the Minister of Justice, ergo President of the Supreme Judicial Council, ergo Head of Judicial Reform, to become a person who has never written the reasons for any judgment in his life. The nomination of Ekaterina Zaharieva is a mockery with the guild of the Bulgarian magistrates, among which there are many worthy people who could and deserve to take up this post. Through it, however, President Rosen Plevneliev triumphantly enters the executive power, who is a partner with Ekaterina Zaharieva's husband, Angel Zahariev. There is no conflict of interest here, there is complete harmony of the interests of the behind-the-scenes interests, of course. Through it enters the executive power triumphantly and an oligarchic circle of capital-media ungulates. This is not the Minister of Justice's choice. It's just an unworthy, behind-the-scenes mastery of power positions. Why is she chosen anyway? Because as some other speakers have said here, if we read her biography, we see that she left the lawyer's post very quickly. Apparently, there are no qualities to achieve certain successes, but at the same time it has demonstrated strong political unpretentiousness and the co-existence with it. It was examined and approved in the political offices of NDSV, DPS and GERB and then the President. I mean, she's the favorite's way. It is natural that she cannot be Minister of Justice. It cannot stand at the same level with the Bulgarian magistrates, among which there are people that any nation could be proud of. It is nothing but another embodiment of the warring mediocrity, which began from the first days of Borisov's entry into power in 2009. It was not a coincidence that the peyote was born, it was not a coincidence that the peyote was born. However, it fully confirms the bipolar disorder in the ruling oppositions, which justified the behaviour of the................................................................................................ I wish you success in appointing favorites, secretaries and other girls in power.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u26	Are there any lines? I won't. I give the floor to the MP Stefan Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u27	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We from the Party of Justice will support the personal proposal for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u28	He's got shit!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u29	Spokesmen heard some things that impressed on the overall support of the Judicial Reform Strategy. I would like to remind you that at the very beginning we were the only parliamentary group that disagreed with this Strategy. We thought it was incomplete and that it was not bound by deadlines and ways of financing. In the end, we supported any reasonable proposal tabled in this House relating to this judicial reform. We were actively involved in the introduction of the amendments to the Constitution and in their adoption. As a whole, our parliamentary group has supported the amendments to the Constitution. The government and, in particular, the Prime Minister, in my opinion, have achieved an incredible success by achieving this parliamentary consensus, which is not a small achievement. This was done by both the government and the leadership of the largest parliamentary group. Bulgaria needs more questions on which such consensus can be reached. I speak on behalf of my eight colleagues who are members of the Party. Always, fellow Members, in all parts of this House, you can count on your constructive proposals to us. We are also ready to support the proposals we have talked about with Mrs Zaharieva and with regard to the Judicial and Career Development Act, and the procedural laws, the Property Act, and to be her support in the future in adopting the budget of the judiciary and in particular the budget of the Ministry. With regard to Mrs. Zaharieva's personality, I and my colleagues think that she is a sufficiently prepared person for the Minister of Justice. Some colleagues have heard that we, the lawyers we have worked for the state, are not sufficiently at the level of the judiciary, but ultimately we have defended the state interests as legal lawyers. The Law Faculty of Sofia University is not the only Faculty in the Republic of Bulgaria [[Replication of the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov]] . And luckily, Mr. Zablyanov. Mrs. Zaharieva can and has the opportunity to complete the judicial reform. Accept today's vote, the votes for the vote as a vote of confidence for the well-initiated judicial reform. You have our assurance that from now on you will have our support. Thank you. [[Applause from the BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u30	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. To speak, Mr. Dimitar Delchev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Just two days ago, the vote on constitutional changes ended, with which much of the Reformation bloc showed that we are consistent. Yes, we stood behind the historic compromise, however much we did not appreciate it as the deep judicial reform, then we stood on our signatures at second reading and supported the old division of our colleagues, and finally, we voted at a third reading with the final text, with which we supported 90% of the proposals under which we had put our signatures. But let's just say that Wednesday was the end of it. Let's just say Wednesday was the first sentence of judicial reform. And now it is clear to all of us that the judicial reform is not over. She's just getting started. In fact, changes in the legislation will achieve the so desired judicial reform not only by us from the right, but also by the people who protest on the street, from the media, from the whole Bulgarian society. The law on the judiciary is a very big challenge, which the new Minister of Justice will have the task of dealing with. In fact, there must be a requirement for a clear vote, which I think was to some extent supported by this plenary with the dropping of the secret vote on the Constitution. And this is what we see as one of the urgent tasks of the Minister of Justice. However, there are also many other issues that will still have to be resolved, for example, how decisions will be taken in the courts, how decisions will be taken in the Supreme Judicial Council, how exactly the Presidents remain in terms of their status. This is yet to be decided by the Law on the Judiciary. Will the presidents of the courts be as they are now and will generate scandals, or will they become in some form first among equals and take decisions democratically with the other judges? However, we must bear in mind that the Minister of Justice is not omnipotent. Expectations with regard to him are much greater than he can do and than he has power. And that's right, colleagues. In fact, the issue of corruption in the judicial system, the question that pops up every time we hear the "Yaneva Gate" when we hear the "Krasyo Black" or any of these scandals, is much more important than any other issue. Here the Minister of Justice may not have those powers that we would like to have to solve these problems, but he is the face of justice. He (or she) is, respectively, the person who has to set the tone in the judiciary, who has to be the generator of reforms. The fight against corruption there will therefore be the main task that we will require from the Minister of Justice. In fact, both the fight against corruption in the judiciary and the work on the Anti-Corruption Law, I hope that the new Minister of Justice will put in sufficient effort and together with Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva, who is the main generator of the fight against corruption and these initiatives in the National Assembly that are to be tabled, with joint efforts to achieve a good result that we failed to achieve in September and for which we will be criticised in the Report. I'm getting to the most important point of time. Colleagues, the new Minister of Justice will have very short deadlines. We have set them in the Constitution in the Transitional and Final Provisions. Four months to divide the Supreme Judicial Council is a very short term. For everything else, the deadlines are also short, because in January there is a report by the European Commission. Bulgaria has nothing to wait for. Responsibility with regard to the deep judicial reform and the short term challenges me to congratulate Mrs. Zaharieva on the courage she has and to say that much of the Reformation bloc will support her in the efforts because we do not understand what it means not to give confidence in advance. Problems are called for solutions. The solution now is to elect a Minister of Justice to continue the efforts towards judicial reform; to continue them, to deepen them, to speed them up. Therefore, with great hope, we will support the Minister of Justice and call on anyone who tries to apologize here to see, mainly in the central part of the House, who is trying to apologize with the Reformation Block, that he will not vote for a certain minister or for a certain policy, not to do so. Make your own decisions, as we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Delchev. For a statement there is the national representative Georgi Kadiev. Is there a desire for other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Whenever I have looked at politics and the ministers in Bulgaria as a child, I have always imagined that these are people who are terribly educated, terribly moral, terribly quality, the best of the best, the cream of society! So when we received the proposal for the Minister of Justice, I asked myself the following questions: first, what are Mrs Zaharieva's personal qualities? Secondly, what is the political signal sent with this application? Since I'm not from this guild and I've never worked with her, I took the liberty of asking people who worked with her. This is not a representative sample, of course, there are probably other people. I would like to read to you by asking them to vote for, against, or abstention, as we voted for the Constitution...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u34	Mr. Kadyev, you have 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u35	I won't say anything in 30 seconds. Can I get a time extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u36	There's nowhere else to go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u37	In 30 seconds, the only thing I can say, Mr. Chairman, is that there wasn't a single vote for a voice. There were many voices about how poorly legal Ms. Zaharieva was prepared, how she tolerated mediocrity and how she would not make any reform. The political point is that in this way you are actually bringing the president into the model who is now ruling us. You are saving yourself from him taking the trust of this government, as he did with the previous government of Oresharski, and which he should actually do. This Parliament and this government have already exhausted their mandate. They stopped reforming.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u38	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u39	The best thing to do right now is to go to an election. Mrs. Zaharieva, if I were you, I would never get on that train.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u41	You and your involvement will actually anchor this model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u42	Thank you. A line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u43	Dear Mr. Kadyev, you've started interestingly. Please continue. [[Noise, shout and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u44	That's not a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u45	It's a line. It's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u46	It's not a line. You didn't disagree with what you said...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u47	Okay, I can tell you, Mr. Kadyev, you started interestingly, you couldn't finish things. I didn't understand exactly what was in the sample that you wanted to say. I'm interested, because that would depend on my choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u48	Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u49	I'll read you a few sentences. Mrs. Zaharieva, I apologize for being unpleasant, but you should hear them and it's good that you're in the room. An average lawyer and a weak administrator. Poor, weak biography. No personal merit. I repeat, these are people who worked with you, they haven't seen you on TV. "Nedialogical, authoritarian, does not tolerate anyone else's opinion. It is absurd to say that it will continue the reform. She'll do as she's told. Visible, he'll call her Boyko Borisov. She has already stated that she will cut from Hristo Ivanov's draft Law on the Judicial Authority. Mrs. Zaharieva, you must fight corruption. This is one of the main features of the Minister of Justice. In the last week alone, there have been at least three corruption scandals. One scandal sits next to me, on the right, Mrs. Taneva, whose classmate, you see, is the only participant in a contract for the delivery of SUVs for 200 thousand. BGN, every single SUV, on the farm to ride, please, sheikhs from the airport to the hunting farm. Lying and cheating!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u50	That's not a line anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u51	Mr. Tsvetanov, who is absent here, gave the extremely arrogant explanation that in Bulgaria we are all classmates. Once upon a time Ivan Kostov said that we were all cousins, now suddenly we all became classmates. How will you fight this corruption? How are you going to get Mrs. Taneva to resign because she doesn't deserve anything more than that? [[Replices, cheers by GERB.]] Yesterday you said a phrase that you wouldn't share magistrates to strong and weak, to bad and good. How will you share the highways, I ask you? Because in the last week, a national strategic project company has distributed the 800 million-dollar highway. lv. of two companies: one related to Delyan Peevski, the other related... [[the President shall exclude the speaker's microphone. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]] What happened, Mr. Chairman? Did you interrupt me?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u52	Not yet. Not yet, but if you keep up the good work...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u53	While we're here talking about a Constitution and changing ministers, they're giving away hundreds of millions. How are you going to stop this corruption? That's what I want to know. Colleagues, today we are not voting on a minister of justice, today we are actually voting on a vote of confidence or distrust of this government. Each one of you who supported Mrs. Zaharieva actually supports this, the same corruption model. Each of you should know that. That's not the way to fight it. There's only one way, and I'm sorry to say it, not that I want it to be a new election. That's the way it is! They're inevitable! [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u54	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. The word asked for Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u55	Since I was personally accused by Mr. Kadiev, I apologize to all the MPs for taking the floor and taking the part of the debate, but I can't help but answer that. Dear Mr. Kadyev, whose interests do you defend with these questions? Firstly, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is not a contracting entity in these public procurement contracts. Secondly, yes, there are two of those from state-owned forest enterprises that have done both under your mandate and the candidate, and the winner is the same person who provided this SUV, regardless of whose owner he is and has ever had any acquaintances with my personality. And according to your mandate, last year. Thirdly, make the effort to check the remaining public procurements to which the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is the contracting authority to see how many million leva have been saved this year, with which we are currently paying off the debts with which we entered the mandate of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. So, when we talk, dear Mr. Kadiev, with whom I have had perfect communication so far, we should look at the facts and not what we want to see. Is the drama not for a completely different procurement, declared by forestry holdings where the maximum price at which it is declared is 30% lower than the one on which it was purchased under your mandate?! [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u56	The word for speech is Mr. Rumen Yonchev. [[The National Representative Georgi Kadiev wants the floor for a personal explanation and is approaching the stand. The lines, the shouts, the excitement.]] Mr. Kadyev, sit down! [[Replying, noise.]] The word is Mr. Yonchev. If I were leading at this point, I would interrupt you for going off the subject of the debate. Mr. Yonchev, are you going to talk or not?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u57	Madam President, do I have the right to a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u58	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u59	Why can't I have a personal explanation?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u60	We are not going into a debate that is beyond the debate of the point that is going on right now! We're listening, Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! Before we talk about Mrs. Zaharieva's candidacy, we should be aware of how we have reached today's change in the Council of Ministers. That's the foundation on which we have to set our ground. You know that only a little more than a year ago this cabinet was drawn up, with the power actually the government of GERB stepping on a three-legged chair with the three legs of the Patriotic Block, Patriotic Front and ABB. Inevitably under the weight of power the legs began to crack and break, as the final result, be assured, will be alignment to the shortest leg. That's how the controls will be more stable. Only such a structure can be stable. In the process of this crackling and breaking, we must be aware, that is, the government, the Prime Minister, the ruling parties must tell us which minister whose is, because there is a very serious question of responsibility here. Who is responsible from now on for the ministers in the government and for those who will enter the Council of Ministers from now on? We, first of all, did not hear this analysis from the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister from the remaining ministers which party represents, and only then can we get to Mrs. Zaharieva's candidacy. It is obvious that its professional qualities do not lead to the thought of the sector "Justice", however indisputable they may be. At the same time, she is not the only minister who has nothing to do with the portfolio she is leading, and that is normal when ministers are politicians broadcast by political parties. There is nothing scary and something abnormal about this as Mrs. Bachvarova assumes responsibility for a portfolio, clearly as a member of the management of GERB and GERB is responsible for this management. It is important for us to know who and whose candidacy Mrs. Zaharieva is. Yesterday we learned that she was supported by the president, which is very strange and very unusual in such cases. Is the president joining the government? Is this some kind of smooth transition to a caretaker government? Because we're used to seeing Mrs. Zaharieva in working governments. [[Comments from GERB: That's where things are going.]] We, the MPs of the People's Union, see no reason to support this application without clarifying these basic facts: who will be responsible for the judicial reform from now on, GERB, the Reformation bloc, which coalition, what is the composition that will stand behind Ms Zaharieva's actions? This is very important because otherwise, the prime minister will have to circle the parliamentary groups again and seek support for the next steps in judicial reform. That is why I stress again: the MPs of the People's Union will not support Mrs. Zaharieva's candidacy. Thank you. [[Applause from the BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u62	Any lines to Mr. Yonchev? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u63	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u64	Mr. Kadyev's procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u65	Madam President, it is my procedure that you have not given me the opportunity to defend myself against Ms. Taneva's words. Mrs. Taneva, you came...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u66	To me, to me, to me, not to Mrs. Taneva!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u67	...not to explain yourself... [[The National Representative continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u68	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. I will remove you from this room if you disobey my decision! [[National Representative Georgi Kadiev continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Kadyev, for questioning and non-compliance with the regulations... [[National Representative Georgi Kadiev continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Kadyev, last sentence, don't challenge me! Mr. Kadiev, I'm removing you from the plenary session today! [[(Applause from GERB. Communicating: "Uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu!]] Mr. Kanev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u69	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to point out that there is nothing personal about Mrs. Zaharieva's decision to elect the Minister of Justice. We have started discussing the individual with a very important political issue. It is not personal this vote, it is for the government and for the judicial reform. We cannot fail to note that there is a specialty of Mrs. Zaharieva's previous career and she is in a bad way to hold positions for which there have been no other candidates [[Shouting from GERB: "Eee! "]] , and twice, in two official governments to be minister of service, leads to two political conclusions. The first is that GERB do not have a candidate for a minister of justice and a person to bet on to impose political responsibility for reform. The second is that there is not a sufficiently stable solution to a severe institutional crisis in the country. The appointment of a two-time deputy prime minister one year after the establishment of the government is a sign of early elections. Even if we admit it and not admit it, we all know it. There is no stable solution to a severe institutional crisis, because in Bulgaria the situation is such, put simply: there are no reforms. There is no such film: stability without change in Bulgaria. The state will collapse! Public finances will collapse! The economy will collapse under the weight of a huge party administration, many times greater than that of 9 million Bulgaria since the late 1980s, and which is worse than the already significant pό party than that of the totalitarian party state since the late 1980s. That's not an accusation against a party. This is an accusation against all ruling and ruling parties. The state will also collapse under comprehensive political corruption, for which another way to fight, other than effective, independent justice, has not been invented and will not be invented in democratic societies. This general feeling of instability is fueled by the fact that today the election will be made successfully, will be made with the help of three split parliamentary groups - three main parliamentary groups - will not vote together, as they voted in the election of a government, two of them, then a single one - one against. There is now a reconfiguring of the parliamentary majority on the basis of divided parliamentary groups. We saw... [[Reply from GERB: "This is your problem."]] Yeah, it's our problem! Ooh, don't ask me for these accusations against GERB that he is smashing the other parties, I am the last person to justify myself with someone else. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The fact is there is. We saw in the vote on the Constitution that BSP LB could also be cut off and no wonder in the near future a significant part of the left-wing group is also available to maintain government policy, as we saw in the Constitution, as long as it is a policy of preserving the status quo, not a policy of reforms. Over 200 votes are available to support such a policy. As for the reforms, our trust, colleagues from GERB, is exhausted. I said it during the debate. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Or let me turn to the future Minister of Justice personally, trust is too little to lend. The trust and support of Democrats for strong Bulgaria You will be able to rely if and when you enter the real battle, if and when you start the real reform, or otherwise, you will not get our votes today, but when you are left alone in the fight, when the fold here is empty, as it was empty for Christ, then you will receive our support! [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u70	- What's the line? Ms. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kanev, your party was created with a split, you split the SDS, you took the assets, you left the liabilities. The other thing is, since you are in opposition and are talking about party appointments and bloated state administration: why don't you withdraw all your personnel, who at your insistence [[Applause from GERB]] We've assigned to the public administration, the regional administrations and everywhere? How are you in opposition and in government? [[Noise and lines.]] Why are you talking in one vote with the DPS for elections? You're opposed to the DPS, aren't you? You want to sew DPS to GERB, don't you? [[Applause from GERB.]] Aren't all your media appearances that GERB and DPS are together? Didn't you reach the historic compromise when you were kneeling before Mr. Dogan... huh, Mestan? [[Laughter, excitement, applause.]] How long are we gonna listen to this shit from this tribune? When reforms are being made, you must speak clearly, exactly and fight! You can't turn around when you've got nine out of ten offers, and they're not just yours, and you can't just turn around like a little kid with your feet, a kid who's been taken away from his truck and be angry! You have to go ahead! [[General applause from GERB.]] You have to give your people a chance to make a statement! True, you don't have one common leadership in the Reformation Block. But I see a lot of people from the Reformation Block who are honest, honest and really want to work for the reform. You shouldn't work for one person, you should work for the reform! You have to work for Bulgaria! And here, from this tribune and colleagues from BSP many times try to go out and speak on behalf of the Bulgarian citizens, yes, we are all representatives of the Bulgarian citizens and we must behave responsibly. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And if we really want to have reform, we need to be united, not kick our knuckles! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u72	For the second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u73	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Dear Mr. Kanev, I was upset that I heard bad words from you about the candidate and our colleague Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva. I admit I didn't expect that. We are colleagues of the same generation and we know both professional experience and professional opportunities. A colleague is a worthy lawyer with experience that did not deserve this attitude. My grievance also relates to the fact that during the last year in our work on bills, in many cases, the colleague has fully supported your legal ideas and these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u74	For the third line, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u75	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Kanev, perhaps at first glance people will say: here, great, the block crashed, the DSB went into opposition or something like that, as you still retain your power potential. But from my point of view and from the point of view of my fellow Members, I think that this is bad for a government when it is based on two parties that have signed a coalition agreement. With great bitterness, I can say that what has happened in the past few weeks and this political, somewhat inexpensive scenario does not fit and does not respond to the seriousness that we have gathered in this building and what we have worked so hard a year ago, with a lot of sweat on our forehead, we have managed to do as a common cause, a common goal, a common majority. Any division at the moment is not appropriate and will not lead to anything positive when we talk about reforms, about stability, about the external negative factors that our country is facing. I've been thinking a lot about saying this, but I'm going to say it as a line to remind you of one of your motives a year ago to stay in parliament and not go to executive power. This was so that you could stay in the National Assembly so that you could find the necessary ones to implement legislative reforms, to provide the necessary majority for them, because we know that a Constitution is not changed by a simple majority, but by qualified ones. Therefore, for one year, since you failed, you submitted some proposals, you said that if it was not for them, they would not be anyone, and ultimately from my point of view it turns out that you have failed in what you promised to secure a year ago the necessary majority for amendments both in the Constitution and in other important sectoral laws. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So I think you should look a little inside of yourself what you've done in a year, not act like... It's just that it doesn't suit a true leader of a political party who's in government. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u76	A hole, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u77	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I'm gonna miss my personal qualifications. They don't matter. The political failure to implement constitutional reform as it was introduced in 182, if I am not mistaken MPs, headed by Parliament Speaker Mrs. Tsacheva, and I did not bring it in, is a very serious failure. The act of withdrawal from the ruling majority is not an act of triumph, but a finding that serious reforms do not have the will to take place in this Parliament. So you're right here, Mr. Nenkov. You're absolutely right. With regard to the fact that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms wants elections, I say that the government, with this nomination, gives the green light at early elections -- these are two completely different things. We have always wanted stability, which is achieved through accelerated reforms in the current state in Bulgaria. Our opinion, which Mr. Mestan would probably argue, is that the DPS wants a completely different kind of stability, one that ensures that reforms will not happen, and one that seems to be more and more secure by the present Parliament. So behind the DPS's request for early elections, I see undisclosed satisfaction with today's construction of the Bulgarian Parliament and today's upcoming vote with the split parliamentary groups that I have spoken about. Bad words, Mr. Kirilov, I didn't say anything and I won't say anything about Mrs. Zaharieva. I said personal treatment here doesn't matter. Her political career, however, is indicative. God willing to disprove us, and, as I said, if he disproves us, he will see how the conjunctural non-reformative political support that he will enjoy today will melt. Because these are the realities in Bulgarian politics and in the Bulgarian Parliament. If she is a minister of justice who has to push reforms so far as not to stop EU funds and push GERB to elections with the image of a party with the desire to reform justice, this is one task. If he wants to be a minister with an ambitious political agenda, which will remain in history as a successful reformer, because so far in this Ministry we have only one reformer in the face of Hristo Ivanov and he remained unsuccessful, as a fighter, as a battlefighter who could not fight and dignified retreat. That's a different word for Mrs. Zaharieva now. And lastly, because time is up, you'll never, ever hear me view people in expert positions as party assignments. This, unfortunately, is not our priority, we haven't done anything, we're not doing party assignments! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u78	A personal explanation from Mr. Mestan. [[The National Representative Tsvetomir Mihov wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] The personal explanation is as soon as the lines and the dots are finished. Then you have a procedure in the manner of conduct. And then Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Because the dialogue between Ms. Karayancheva and Mr. Radan Kanev was structured around my name, I have two personal explanations. Mrs. Karayancheva, when you look at me, do I look like a leper?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u80	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u81	No? Then what unnaturally do you see in the dialogue that I would have with your leader, and what unnaturally do you see in the dialogue that we had with Mr. Radan Kanev? The truth is that this dialogue made possible the second revision of the Constitutional Project and on Wednesday this project was successfully completed in its constitutionally permissible form. Our dispute with Mr. Radan Kanev will continue about whether the other proposals were possible. In our opinion, not because of the constitutional restriction, but according to them, they were possible. And to you, Mr. Kanev. The movement for rights and freedoms believes that there is an objective need for early parliamentary elections, not to stop reforms, but to the contrary, because this government, despite the mantra of stability, is unable to generate reforms. Your exit from the ruling formula is the strongest proof that this is not happening, with a small difference.. not only in the part about judicial reform, but at all. This is not reform management, this is reform talk management. The word "reform" has long lost its own meaning, and without reforms there is no development, no stability, your rule is doomed to failure! Elections are a necessity now! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u82	Procedure in the manner of conducting Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct. I think you violated the Rules at the moment when you gave the floor to Mr. Kanev, because at least as far as I saw on the monitors, the speaking time of the independent MPs ended right after Mr. Kadiev's speech. [[Applause from GERB]] . And if Mr. Kanev stubbornly refuses to sit in the last row with his fellow independent MPs, it does not in any way give him the right to take away the time of the Reformation bloc. I see that colleagues want to speak, and it takes their time. Therefore, please be stricter in keeping with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. [[Applause and laughter by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u84	Mr. Mihov, I do not share your understanding, as the Reformation Block Group is the only duly appointed, in accordance with our Rules, the resignation is that of Mr. Grozdan Karadjov, who said and it was announced in plenary that he was leaving as President of the Commission, which he led. Everything else for me is media appearances, since they are not moved as a procedure in our Rules. We're listening, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u85	Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because here in recent times, the last few minutes we have witnessed something that is shameful for the Bulgarian Parliament, and you are not preventing it. We are gathered today and have as a point the first acceptance of resignation and the election of a new Minister of Justice. What is happening here is taking out the dirty underwear of the government who, why, what, where, and how he appointed, who to whom and how he was offended, who and why he was in power and why he went away. Let us not be surprised why the Bulgarian people begin with increasing distrust to treat both parliament and government. Colleagues, respect yourselves! Madam President, respect Parliament and don't allow any mahlenian scandals from the National Assembly's stand! Let's get to the point! [[Noise and lines.]] Everything else shows and proves that in the Bulgarian Parliament and in the ruling majority rule not the principles but the interests. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u86	The word for speech is Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u87	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Ministers, ministers, colleagues! It is obvious that the Reformation bloc is interesting for Bulgarian society. It is obvious that we have an interpretation of which way we should achieve our goals. I assure you that our goal is one, and it is indeed a modern society, effective judicial reform, anti-corruption legislation and Bulgaria to achieve what deserves to have at least a mid-European standard and a mid-European quality of life. This has been achieved over the years, I am convinced that we can do it now! Frankly, I hate it when some of my associates are talking the same way to the opposition right now here. I assure you that I will do everything I can to ensure that the bloc is united and that we can prove that we can achieve our goals, because in my opinion, this is also the expectation of society and the people who support us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u88	On the subject, Mr. Zelenogorski. That's what he asked me to follow Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u89	Yeah. I'm gonna keep talking about this. Our efforts after voting on the amendments to the Constitution, some appreciate this as too small a step, we appreciate it as a small but important step. We made nine proposals, of which eight were accepted. Frankly, in any case, you can always expect more and more and more, but better, as they say, a sparrow in the hand than an eagle in the sky. My political practice taught me that instead of heroic positions and strong words it is good to work slowly, day by day in one direction and achieve your goals. In this sense, I believe that amendments to the Constitution and subsequent amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, in procedural laws, anti-corruption legislation, including in the area of the justice system, are extremely important. This could only happen in one way.. before the Ministry of Justice to stand up for someone who, in my opinion, has the courage and the will.................................................................................. to continue this time! In the discussion yesterday I heard that it will continue along the line of Hristo Ivanov. Here I would like to say that I appreciate the efforts of Mr. Hristo Ivanov. I am convinced that many of the things he proposed to the Bulgarian Parliament and to the Bulgarian society are important and useful. I personally would hope that Mrs. Zaharieva will continue along this line for an effective judicial reform, because I would very much hope that after a year of significant part of the Bulgarian society will already believe in the judiciary in Bulgaria. Yes, I know that there are colleagues who would like everything to happen now, right now. Twenty years ago, I was once again the MP here. Then in the ODS we had a significant majority of 137 votes. Perhaps then we should have made that significant, expected reform with the great political trust we had. It didn't happen. However, I hope it will happen now, but it will happen with more diplomacy and with more awareness of how important it is, detailed and how patient there must be in the legal community and in the political circles in order for all this to happen. I'll finish this. Most of the MPs in the Reformation bloc will support Mrs. Zaharieva's candidacy. I assure you, I will do everything possible after the parliamentary vacation that the Reformation bloc will be united and more and more often to have united positions. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u90	Any lines to Mr. Zelenogorski? I won't. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? No. Mrs. Zaharieva, would you like to share something with the MPs? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u91	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to thank for my vote of confidence by the Prime Minister and the political parties, or some of them, albeit divided, who expressed today and in the previous two days in the consultations that I have conducted with them, support for my candidacy. I am aware that I am taking this position, and the responsibility for taking it is enormous. The post, someone said and I fully agree with him, I think it was Mr. Delchev, that the post of justice minister is entrusted with huge expectations, unfortunately, a small part of them are related to his real powers and the powers granted to him by law. And I've heard a lot of questions like that today. What I'm trying to say is that that's why I'm not making false promises today. I think that the qualities and work of a minister are proven by his work and by the results he achieves, not by the personal assessment of someone and by a poll that someone has made from people who, believe me, cannot be my friends and like me, since they are friends of the person who made them. What I want to say is that without the efforts of all of us in 25 years of reforming, initiating and updating strategies and increasing confidence in the judiciary, there is no way that people today can be impatient, not expect visible results immediately, which, unfortunately, I cannot promise. However, what I can say to you today is that I will do my best, as I have done so far, I do not know who has followed my political career, I can only say that someone can only dream of the posts they have offered me and I have refused [[crowd cheering and lines from BSP LB]] that my career has so far shown that it has never been my goal post, and what I have done in my entire career is to be responsible and to hold posts in some of the most difficult moments of the state. And if an appointment or proposal, the nomination of a service deputy prime minister, was twice a service deputy prime minister, is a sign of early elections, that means that the reformist bloc's government currently supported has two ministers. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u92	Colleagues, please be quiet in the room so you can hear. A little higher, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u93	I think that ministers should be chosen by personal qualities and by what they have proved at the moment. The amendments to the Constitution are already a fact. Much can be debated what we have done and what we have not been able to do, but I, as a lawyer and a large part of you, know that we are a parliamentary republic, and in order to amend the Constitution, a qualified majority of at least 160 votes is needed. We can lose two or three more years to explain what we could do, but it is not possible at the moment, or we can step on what is done and adopted in the Constitution and which is not at all small, and we can change the laws, so that we can return the self-esteem of our magistrates and the trust of the people in them, and so what is sought by all the feelings of justice and quality justice. What I believe will be my approach is rather to work towards the realization of good ideas and urgent amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, which are necessary and which are prepared by the previous team of the Ministry of Justice. There are also two other legislations tabled, which I promise to update as soon as possible so that they correspond to the amendments to the Constitution, to make the urgent necessary debates so that people know what is being adopted and be made available to your attention as soon as possible. The most important things in the Judicial Law that are urgent. Of course, the introduction of the secret vote. This will increase confidence in the SJC and for this introduction enabled the voted amendment of the Constitution last week. Of course, everyone expects the entry of quality people into the judiciary, quality of attestations and objective opportunity for career growth of good magistrates, of magistrates who are led in the adoption of their acts only on the basis of law and morality. Strengthening the role of the Inspectorate and verification of integrity which you, honourable Members, have given the opportunity to carry out with the amendments of the Constitution. We need to speed up the update of the Judicial Reform Strategy, taking into account the changes adopted. And, of course, seeking dialogue for some of the so- proposed by the previous team, in my opinion, close to reaching agreement on them, amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, in procedural laws, in the Law on Youth Justice. I am convinced that in the rule of law the rule of law and the fair independent and objective court which I have heard from all of you that we want to achieve are objectives that are much more important than political differences, than liking and dislike. In this, I understand the concept of a national priority, a topic on which to make efforts to be as convinced as possible. Therefore, I will seek support from all political forces, whether they will support me today or not. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u94	Colleagues, order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u95	And if you cannot find working legal solutions for an effective reform of the judiciary, the Constitution is a law, but it is possible to open new debates. I believe that at the moment, more importantly, it is not to waste time and to do what has been achieved, which has been very much achieved, so that both judges and prosecutors can feel more independent and make their own decisions about career growth, attestations and everything that has been given to them. The introduction of the open vote supposes a lot of criticisms are heard at the SJC. The SJC itself and most of them want it. If you support me today, I promise I won't, and I've never done that, to enter into political backstage agreements with one part or another. You won't hear me express a personal assessment or an opinion of anyone. That's not my approach. I think that the debate should return to an expert level in the Judicial Strategy Council, which you have adopted, honourable MPs, in the updated Judicial Reform Strategy, where I really expect your support from political parties, magistrates, NGOs and professional organisations. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and part of RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Colleagues, the debate is closed. The Quaestors, if there are any MPs on the towers, please invite them in. I'm doing the same thing right now with the sound signal. I remind you of the project presented by the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva of ? RESPONSIBILITY? for personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly, on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the decision of the National Assembly on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 7 November 2014, and the decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 11 March 2015. HAS DECIDED 1. He released Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov as Minister of Justice. 2. He elected Minister of Justice Ekaterina Spasova Gecheva-Zaharieva. Please vote. [[BSP LB.]] There have been no procedural proposals for a separate vote. The draft decision is one. We vote the whole decision with both of its points.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u97	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u98	There's a problem with one of the consoles, colleagues. They voted 209 MPs: 126, against 66, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] First negative vote, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u100	Colleagues, I'm asking for a little more patience. It is extremely unpleasant for the speaker to speak from the stands and to have such a movement in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u101	I voted against it because it became clear in today's Bulgarian state that it does not matter who will be the Minister of Justice. It doesn't matter because, as Boyko Borisov said, everything must be agreed with Sotir Tsatsarov. Then why do we need the Minister of Justice? The border between the legislative, executive and prosecutorial authorities in the state is blurred. I think you all know that in this room, but you don't say anything. I voted against it, because this is not just about the choice of the particular minister. I have other very difficult motives. In the past the government of Sergey Stanishev gave the security sector and the secret power of concession to Saraite.Sadly, Boyko Borisov continued this concession. You know that too, Mr. Tsvetanov. I also want to say something else extremely important. I may be a conservative person, but I can't swallow this thing. There were heavy police protests, and they were well motivated, that's another matter. As President of the Internal Commission, with a decision of the Commission itself, I asked for the Minister of Finance to appear at our meeting to defend his proposal. Half an hour before the Commission meeting, his secretary called and said he had a very important commitment and the prime minister was abroad. This is a grave disrespect to the country's high authority, and these are bad examples. We want people to follow the rules, and those who are chosen don't follow them. I want to tell you at the end that I am also for stability, and I very much want the Bulgarian state to be stable, but it is now equal to the Bulgarian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u102	Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u103	Honourable Madam President, Ministers Gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! I voted against it because the Prime Minister of the Republic does not consider it necessary for a change in the Council of Ministers to be present in the Chamber, violating both the letter and the spirit of the Constitution. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u104	Didn't you hear where the Prime Minister is, Mr. Zablyanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u105	I voted against it because the Prime Minister of the Republic does not respect constitutional order. I voted against it, because the change in the cabinet is nothing but a way out of the political crisis which resulted from its own inability to govern the state. I voted against it because the amendment to the Constitution, as the agenda today and yesterday have shown, is not a spoon for every mouth. Because the amendment to the Constitution cannot be carried out by the people who boycotted the adoption of this Constitution until today did not understand it. I voted against it because the government, for the past months and a year of its existence, could not present, protect and implement in any form and any aspect of any reform. All the actions taken by the ministers were taken under the pressure of circumstances, maneuvers were front and rear to preserve the prime minister's power. There is no philosophy of reform, including the Block that he named himself. The block is broken, the reforms are over, the elections are on the agenda, Mr. Borisov, whether you are in the Chamber or not! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u106	Third negative line? I won't. Colleagues, the legislative part of our meeting has expired, with this and for our entire calendar year. [[Reply: the Bible!]] I invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber. Mrs. Zaharieva, come to the stand and repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u107	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u108	Thank you. Congratulations, Madam Secretary! Colleagues, ten minutes off. Parliamentary control will begin at 11.10 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u109	The sitting continues with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 11 December to 17 December 2015: A question was received from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev along with Emil Raynov, Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov to Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, concerning the duties of the Minister of Health, according to art. 58 of the Health Act, implementing the common policy of mandatory immunizations included in the immunization calendar. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 15 January 2016. A question has been received from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov to Nikolai Nenchev, Minister of Defence, about the vision of the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence and the military leadership of the Bulgarian Army for the development of the types of armed forces by 2020. In accordance with A question was received from the MPs Mihail Mikov, Emil Raynov and Filip Popov to Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, about providing timely treatment to Bulgarian citizens. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 15 January 2016. Written answers to service: - from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to a question from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan; - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Mariana Boyadjieva; - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Borislav Iglev; - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Ralitsa Angelova; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva to two questions from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Hasan Ademov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Petar Ivanov Petrov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Plamen Nunev. First in today's parliamentary control will be responsible Tomislav Donchev - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy. He has been asked by the People's Representative Krasimir Jankov about the safety of citizens in the territory of the National Palace of Culture. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u110	Dear Madam President, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues! My question is regarding the safety of citizens in the territory of the National Palace of Culture and is one of the competences of the Minister of Interior, but at the discretion of the President of the National Assembly is redirected to you, Mr. Donchev, although as Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy the National Palace of Culture is under your jurisdiction, you are a principal. Rather, it should be in another office because the National Palace of Culture is a national cultural centre for conferences, exhibitions and special events, but I suppose, in connection with the Presidency of the country in 2018, it will be under your jurisdiction until at least this period.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u111	Mr. Iankov, this is your question, which you have addressed to Mr. Donchev with an inch. No 554-06-16-52 of 10 December 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u112	The building is designed in a way that guarantees... Please don't interrupt me. Let me finish. If you have something by procedure, then you can take attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u113	You have the floor for a question, not a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u114	The building is designed in such a way as to ensure the maximum rapid evacuation if necessary. One of the main requirements is for the number of outputs to be consistent with its capacity. It is noticed that many of the entrances and exits of the central building are permanently closed for various reasons. The security of public buildings in connection with terrorist threats and attacks is extremely important given the challenges facing our country. In this regard, my question to you is: does the building currently meet the regulatory requirements governing fire requirements and what is the position of the responsible authorities on the safety of citizens in the NDK territory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u115	For an answer there is a Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, the National Palace of Culture was put into service in May 1981, since then there have been no re-enforcements relating to the modification of the evacuation conditions provided for in the introduction of the site into service. It is established that at present there are no separate temporary and permanent bazaars and other commercial facilities such as there were several years ago that could also constitute obstacles in the safe removal of people in a critical situation. The final evacuation exits from the building are provided based on the capacity of Hall 1, i.e. 5000 people. Where there are no mass events and only employees and service staff or rehearsals are present at the site, i.e. the number of people inside is much smaller than the maximum required capacity, access to the building, and possible evacuation from the same shall take place through the central entrance-exit tract and the service entrance (s) exit A-3, i.e. the number of open entrances and exits shall take into account the available number of people inside. In the light of the above, the opinion of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Population Protection is that an organization is established in the site to conduct a successful evacuation in accordance with the rules and regulations of fire safety. On 25 November this year the security and crossing regime in the National Palace of Culture, as a result of which the company carrying out the activity has been given mandatory regulations for implementation. A meeting with the administration was held, all security issues were discussed. There are discussed options for increasing security, including improving video surveillance and its optimization of vulnerable locations, as well as the need to provide metal detectors. Just about ten days ago, the NDK leadership in a letter to me asked for additional funding to provide additional cameras, as well as metal detectors, a question which is currently being assessed, given the fact that I hope that the necessary large-scale renovation works will be launched in 2016 related to adapting the National Palace of Culture for the needs of the Presidency, which will take place in just three years. I am in a hurry to assure you that, apart from a better aesthetic appearance, except for better fitness for the purposes of the Presidency, one of the main highlights of the upcoming repairs is ensuring complete safety not only in view of its normal functionality as a cultural centre, but also in view of the higher standards relating to the implementation of the Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u117	The line, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u118	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Donchev, not by accident in the question I asked you, I have noted that the specific in the answer I expect is more within the powers of the Interior Minister. You mentioned the actual situation at the moment. Security assurance, safety assurance in a critical situation is not a static moment. You said that so far the rules are being followed, taking into account the capacity of the Great Hall 1 out of 5000 people, only that we all know that there are not only concerts in the National Palace of Culture, opening a clamp. These concerts are organized and the event as a whole is provided by private companies, from a private initiative. But when it comes to bazaars in the territory of the National Palace of Culture, in terms of safety and the provision of people who are in the territory of the National Palace of Culture, it is not a static moment, and it is not the presence of people. No one can say, Mr. Donchev, if there is an exposition of the book, whether the visitors will be 100 or will be 10 100. What I am asking is: how much do the authorities that have the competence have the view and whether the National Palace of Culture is complying with the regulations precisely in terms of the threats and challenges it faces in front of the institutions in the coming months or years? Therefore, I would rather address the Internal Commission, to which I am a member, to make a deliberate hearing of the Minister of Interior specifically for the National Palace of Culture in connection with the forthcoming Presidency of our country 2018 in order to have a discussion between all political parties, parliamentary represented, especially to ensure the safety of people in the territory of the National Palace of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u119	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Donchev, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Yankov, your concern is commendable. We are talking about a large facility which focuses at certain times a large number of people, but I think that in the parliamentary debate we should avoid two things: one is the disclosure of sensitive information related to the tactical establishment to ensure the safety of people mostly by the services. This could happen in the format of a closed committee meeting. There is no need for all measures to be taken for the safety of people to be made public, because they can thus become known to ill-intentioned persons. I trust you'll agree to that. That's first. However, let us not forget that in the parliamentary tribune we are mainly talking about policies. You're not confusing me with the head of security or the janitor at the NDK, are you?! The policy is indisputable not only at the moment, but especially in view of the future challenges.. other than more comfortable, more friendly, corresponding to Bulgaria's claim for the Presidency, to be a much safer building. No one would compromise with that. Yes, given the limited financial resources, we could compromise with something else, but not with safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u121	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Thanks to Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, for participating in today's parliamentary control. Seven questions will be answered by Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister. The first question is from MP Filip Stefanov Popov regarding an increased police presence in the town of Bregovo at the Local Elections 2015. Here you are, dear Mr. Popov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! For the first time in the local elections 2015 there was such an increased police presence in the otherwise small municipality of Bregovo, practically equalizing the population of the municipality. My question to you is: what did the increased police presence, including the gendarmerie, impose in the town of Bregovo between the first and second round of Local Elections 2015? What kind of tension were you expecting there, or maybe some riots against the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u123	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u124	Dear Mr. Tsochev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Popov, the increased police presence including officers and the gendarmerie was requested by the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Vidin, to the Director of the Directorate General of the National Police. The request was based on an analysis of the situation in the district, and it was approved, and the Director of the Directorate of Gendarmerie (Grendarmeriya) issued an order for the participation of eight employees and two cars from the Zona gendarmerie management of Montana, on the territory of Vidin district in the period 19 October "1 November 2015. I would like to make the clarification that the eight employees of the gendarmerie were distributed to different municipalities of the district of Vidin, Belogradchik and Kula, and were not concentrated solely on the territory of the municipality of Bregovo. The employees of the Regional Directorate of Vidin worked together with their colleagues from the gendarmerie according to a preliminary plan and prepared a plan-distribution. On both tours of the local elections in Bregovo there was no complicated situation. Their actions were linked to routine and preventive events to prevent violations of public order and to counter crimes against citizens' political rights. The practice of proposing such an organisation during the elections was realized in other areas. All forces have been mobilized so that we can carry out our duties. You've been impressed because such a form of control has never occurred before. I think she gave good results. I answered your colleagues last time about the same cases as in Sliven. That's good practice. As far as you are probably aware, such a more flexible organization is required for a series of reasons in this area.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u125	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you are, Mr. Popov, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I never understood the reasons why police presence in the municipality of Bregovo was enhanced. It impressed us because it greatly exceeded the eight employees of the gendarmerie that you quoted. The opinion of the people of the municipality of Bregovo is quite different from what I heard just now from you, and it is that despite the police presence, which conveniently missed a number of violations, in the municipality of Bregovo GERB failed to usurp the local authorities. As an example, I can give you similar violations in the municipality of Ruzhintsi, where the sacks were opened and inside the wrapping paper were wrapped with an inscription on the top, I do not know exactly, but maybe 67 pieces of invalid newsletters. Upon opening these ballots, there are found to be 130 ballots in there - about 17 invalid ballots and about 120 actual ballots submitted for the candidates of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Perhaps this is the basis of GERB candidates, who appealed the elections in the municipality of Bregovo, not to pay for the forensic expertise to open the bags and see what is in practice and the protocols to compare with the actual and invalid ballots found in the bags, obviously because they know what they were doing. Therefore, the feeling in the people of the municipality of Bregovo is that police presence in no way helped to suppress tensions in order to overcome lawlessness in connection with the violation of the electoral process, but on the contrary, stimulated the opposite! Thank you. Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u127	Right on the back of Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u128	Mr. Popov, you're asking me one thing, you're going with another. I expect your signal for the particular case to be checked.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Question from the National Representative Manol Trifonov Genov concerning the non-payment of compensation for retirement of employees from the Ministry of Interior and the damage from the court claims after them. Here you are, dear Mr. Genov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! My question to Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova is a very short non-payment of benefits in the retirement of employees from the Ministry of Interior and the damage from the legal claims after them. Dear Minister, according to the official reference of the Ministry of Interior, the number of retired but unsuccessful employees of the Ministry is approaching about a thousand. At the end of the summer, it was announced that the amount needed for this payment was about 16 million. lv. It is a public secret that a large part of these former law enforcement officers and law enforcement officers brought cases into court. Many of these former police officers have already condemned the district police for not paying them. The judgments have not been appealed by the lawyers of the Ministry and have entered into force. Private court contractors are powerless to block the accounts of the Ministry of Interior to take the money from these claims. I have data on how former police officers have already filed complaints to the prosecutors against the directors of the district police for failure to comply with court orders, such as the judicial decisions entered into force. My question to you is: how many pending benefits after the retirement of employees of the Ministry, does the Ministry currently have actual data on how many judicial decisions with which retired police officers have already condemned the regional police directorates, what is the accumulated amount for additional accumulated expenses for experts, state fees and legal fees, which the Ministry of Interior has been ordered to pay as a party that lost cases? After all, who takes responsibility for this serious additional financial damage for the Ministry, which must exceed thousands of levs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u131	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u132	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, I will answer you briefly, as you briefly raised the question. Since yesterday, the payment of the benefits to retired employees will be paid by law to 3096 people. The amount is estimated at around 50 million. lv. They will be repaid by Decree No 350 of the Council of Ministers of 10 December 2015, which approves additional funds under the budget of the Ministry of Interior within 180 million. BGN 120 million lv. they're for staff. The costs of 107 court decisions will be paid to the winners. For the responsibility you're asking for. I think we've discussed this topic before, followed up problems, accumulated problems. My desire and strong ambition is to bring order to the payment of these benefits from now on. After all, this is a problem that I found. Therefore, we are taking appropriate measures that will be clear next year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Genov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I'm not pleased with your answer. My question was really brief, but then I developed it, and I wanted exact numbers.... how much are the additional costs of these 107 lawsuits that have been paid? Because I've seen such decisions of the court. On average, about 2.. 3 thousand. lv. It's a case of that money, depending on what it wants. In the end, isn't the Ministry deprived in this way, the budget is not damaged?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u135	How much insurance did you pay?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u136	If it's strong, Mr. Lazarov, go outside. You can hear it louder there. Mr. Chairman, order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u137	Please, no call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u138	So I can get back to my head. After all, when the cops don't have money for gas, when the docs and the police pray to this guy or that guy to buy them a ball of paper or supplies for the printer, isn't that money expensive for the Ministry, and don't they represent some kind of financial resource? What measures will you identify from now on so that this additional damage to the Ministry of Finance does not occur with the inaction of the Ministry itself in paying these benefits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u139	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Right on the back of Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u140	Dear Mr. Genov, you know that the budget of the Ministry of Interior has certain monthly limits over which costs cannot be borne. The situation that was found by me at the beginning of the year and by my colleague before that was with an extremely large amount of responsibilities to the employees as a result of financial uncertainty from raising salaries in the Ministry of Interior, made by your government. The process of repaying these obligations has created difficulties this year. The possibilities for maneuvering the management of the Ministry of Interior are within the limits. These are our options. Yes, it is an amount that could be used otherwise, but unfortunately the Ministry of Interior does not have a printing office for money, and perhaps it is better for the state that there is none. We are doing well, and next year we will try to organise the Ministry's finances so that we can ensure a rhythmic payment of these obligations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u141	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. The floor is given by the President of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. The Member of the National Assembly Mr. Mihail Mikov for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! There are only a few days left until the end of 2015 and it is time for reckoning. It is good that this reckoning is done by government and government, but we, too, have the right to take account of the year. Now that it is increasingly clear that what we have talked about and warned about all the time is happening. The results of the cabinet Borisov 2 are increasingly visible because 2015 can be defined as: the year of great stories; the year of lies that did not come true; the year of the unfulfilled commitments of the government; the year of political instability and lack of direction in government, lack of direction for Bulgaria; the year of social freezing, increasing poverty and demographic crisis that kills Bulgaria's future; the year in which the economic stagnation is increasingly felt by the business and not by accident yesterday this was also published in the report of the Bulgarian Industrial Association; the year that led to Bulgaria's involvement in the debt spiral; the year in which Bulgaria continued to put its national priorities and obediently leans its head before the interests of other countries; the year in which the people in our country do not have particularly great reasons to be proud of those who chose to manage them in the autumn of 2014. 2015 will also be remembered by the fact that it has never become clear who exactly and when participates in the country's governance. The initially announced quadruple coalition became five, at times six, but the principles on which it was formed from the very beginning were obviously related not to what was declared, but to the self-sustaining participation in power and preservation at all costs. Obviously no one has any interest in revealing that there is actually no coalition, and the majority are formed not on political principles, but on the basis of economic, private and other non-political interests, it is even more visible at the end of this year when we have a situation in which the self-destined opposition from the Reformist bloc is involved in the government. It is becoming increasingly clear that participation in management is carried out on an entirely unprincipled basis, while the leading ones are certain corporate and personal interests, ambitions of circles that are very often of a non-political nature. It is no wonder that in this formula for participation in the management of almost all parties, at all costs, Bulgaria has been going without direction for a year. Started with banging promises of reforms, management only deepened the problems in the sectors that it claimed reforming them. The decisions are constantly changing according to the Prime Minister's current mood or according to the interests of another country. We closed last year with extremely controversial amendments to the NSI Budget Act, which has never been implemented. The law was repealed, then did not apply, which clearly signaled at the beginning of the year that Bulgaria was not a state of rule of law. As early as the beginning of the year, the European Commission's assessment of the Progress Report was clear. Big talk has started about reforms in the judiciary with both the Strategy and the first attempt at the Constitution and the second historical compromise. Today, just now, we saw where we got the job..changes in the cabinet without changing politics. The policy, which was also assessed by Brussels, which in a month will probably be assessed again and again in the same way. We have been told that we have renegotiated the terms of the contracts with TPP-1 and TPP-3, but it turns out that such a re-negotiation has not happened until now. Energy is in worse financial condition today than ever before. The government did nothing to stop unlawful state aid paid through electricity prices by Bulgarian citizens to power plants in the pool of Maritsa East 1 and 3. It was promised not to raise taxes, and 270,000 poor workers felt it in the first four months of last year. Their taxes rose by 10%. It was said that there will be no weekend tax yesterday Bulgarian citizens realized that there will actually be a weekend tax. Surprisingly, it was found that this tax, popularly called weekend, had somehow circumvented declarations and fairy tales in the National Assembly, the promises of the ruling majority politicians not to have such a tax. In the middle of the year, five months before they did, we were assured that there will be no increase in the prices of the wineries. Today we are told that 50% increase is small and the good is yet to come next year and more next year, when the cabinet Borisov hopes to solve these issues again. There were attempts to privatize railways, post offices, hospitals, none of them succeeded in the rising discontent of the people. However, these attempts have not stopped. We will closely monitor how the cabinet, the hidden intentions, the invisible results will realize them next year. There have been many more lies in the past year, but as usual in Bulgaria, there is no blame for them. The government is still wide-ranging, multi-ply and constructed of principles in which one goes out, another goes in, but the bills are paid by the Bulgarian citizens. The cabinet Borisov 2 returned to the practice of social freezing, known by the cabinet Borisov 1. Despite the multibillion-dollar loans, despite the alleged overexecution of budget revenues, there is no money for mothers, for children with disabilities, for first-graders, and the demographic crisis continues. Parliament's decision on short-term and medium-term measures to combat the demographic crisis has not been implemented, but at the same time the budgetary procedure has ended and now is clear the response of Minister Kalfin and the government: why did you not predict money in the budget? What we at BSP left Bulgaria were proposing was dismissed lightly by you, honourable MPs of the majority, who supported the decision on these short-term and medium-term measures to combat the demographic crisis. In health care, citizens have divided into those with socially significant diseases and those who wait or sit at home and heal themselves or go around in older women and witches because otherwise their waiting is too much. In education we pointed the scarce and reduced resources for education and private schools, without realizing that 20% are dropouts between first and eighth grade, without realizing that this year 13 500 less than the first-graders went to school in Bulgaria. Parents took them abroad, and without realizing that the promise to study at home cannot lie to parents who pay their taxes regularly. Dear MPs, why are the government clinging to maintaining the flat tax that serves the interests of a narrow circle of people and loads unjustly millions of Bulgarians? Don't you often comment that it was introduced in our time? Come on, if it's a bad thing, let's just call it off, 'cause usually... Where's Georg? I don't see him here saying how it was before. He's taking selection examples. Let's take the flat tax and cancel it, my dear Georg. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u143	Please, just please don't enter into a dialogue with someone who isn't in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u144	No, the boy's not here. I'm waiting for him. What dialogue, it has no side. I'm looking for Georg. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u145	Then you have a monologue with a man who's not here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u146	Okay, monologue. [[Radio.]] Why not adopt our bill to introduce a reduced rate of value added tax on children's foods, toys and certain social services?! Honourable MPs, the many stories of stability lead to a permanent instability in Bulgaria. Yesterday the World Bank found it in another report that the growth of gross domestic product, the growth of the economy in Bulgaria is very different from that of our neighbours Poland, Romania, the Czech Republic, the Southeast European countries, which at other rates and with other policies determine the prospects for their countries. There was a lot of silence about refugees this year. It is good that the Deputy Prime Minister, in whose portfolio this topic is, is here because Bulgarian citizens do not yet know what yesterday is being negotiated in Brussels, from the beginning of the month with Turkey from these 400 thousand to move refugees from Turkey how many will be settled in Bulgaria?! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. Is the new Agency, which we will participate in the payment of the account, only Schengen borders, or will we also benefit from the security of this Agency? Dear Members of Parliament, time is never enough when it is called truths. There's always time for lies. I hope the New Year will bring more truth to the Bulgarian citizens than the government and the majority. [[Applause from DPS and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u147	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva. The Vice-President of the GERB Parliamentary Group will read a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group. I only warn you that if the shameful scenes of last Friday occur, I will use all the strictness of the Rules of Procedure and end any discussion. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable Deputy Prime Minister! At the end of this parliamentary session of the political party GERB Parliamentary Group, we can note that the ruling parliamentary majority realizes as much of the legislative activities as possible. With the adoption of the state budget for 2016 the normal and calm functioning of all sectors in the country is guaranteed and secured. Naturally, the biggest step that we appreciate as positive and genuine reform is the achievement of historical political consensus and the provision of a maximum parliamentary majority for the adoption of amendments to the Constitution. Politically, for us from GERB the ruling coalition is stable and if someone tries to artificially shake the confidence in it, the effect of this will be like after a storm in a glass of water. Management has clearly defined objectives and priorities. They are truly achievable and more dignified appreciated by an internal and foreign policy plan. The government of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov restored the trust of the European and world partners and our country is once again a... [[DPS line: "Acceptable, yes"]] accepted as a loyal and predictable partner.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u149	Colleagues, I'm asking you to listen to each other. Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u150	The reforms of the ruling majority and the government are irreversible and are dressed in deadlines and figures. Budget 2016 contains more money for health care, education, culture. Besides, it's already over 2 billion. lv. collected from the fight against smuggling. At the same time, the economy is growing 3%. With the more money collected, the government of Prime Minister Borisov managed to distribute Christmas and Easter supplements to the pensioners. The undisputed success of the Prime Minister and his team is the thawing of all suspended European programs for Bulgaria, thanks to which the business and municipalities implement more projects to improve infrastructure, business environment, economy, agriculture and quality of life. The program for renovation of multifamily homes is successfully implemented, through which Bulgarian citizens have the opportunity to isolate their homes and improve their appearance. [[Replys from DPS: and stay warm.]] Against this background in the country, we, the parties of the ruling parliamentary majority, are obliged to continue to ensure the support and stability of the government. To this end, however, we must be responsible politicians, because if there is no shared responsibility, there is no working coalition model. Political party GERB is firm in its determination to make reforms, but not reforms at any price now and immediately, but thought-out reforms step by step based on debate and real parliamentary support, and in the service of society [[PEOPLE FROM DPS: Mostly!]] , and last but not least, ensuring long-term results. The reform of the judiciary will continue. We at GERB hold on to this and if someone says otherwise, he manipulates. The guarantees for this are the upcoming amendments to the Law on the Judiciary and the procedural laws. Politics, fellow Members, is an art of opportunity, and that is not reprehensible. The opposite is called stubbornness, and it does not lead to anything good, or you fight to the end for the golden belt, or you take the gloves off and you get out of the ring, not to heat up the ropes and expect the opponent to lower his guard. Dear colleagues, Bulgarian citizens are exhausted from elections and it is clear to everyone that GERB is the only political force that is able to win them back. So let us put an end to the petty struggles and give ourselves a clear account of the responsibility we bear. Let reason prevail! - Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. I thank the MPs who have shown sufficient patience for the two declarations. We're moving on to parliamentary control. There is a question from MP Stanislav Todorov Stanilov about the chaos with registration of new cars. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov, develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u152	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! At the end of November, Bulgarian motor vehicle owners faced an unprecedented crisis. Due to the inability to produce new registration plates, registrations of cars in several Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior have been terminated. The Sofia DMV suspended the registration of cars to remain signs for cars from new imports which cannot move on the roads without numbers. The lack of numbers affects people who want to make first registration of a newly purchased or acquired car. I remind you that driving a car without license plates is not allowed and is fined up to one year in the first offense. The lack of registration plates at the DMV is also causing major problems for carriers. They suffer losses because they cannot use the purchased cars and trailers. It is also hindered the issue of transport permits abroad for which the new trucks are primarily purchased. The citizens are dissatisfied and the business is suffering. No one from the Ministry of Interior is committed to a deadline when the situation of the registration numbers will normalise, with responsibility being transferred to the court. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: why have the Ministry not taken preventive measures to avoid the current crisis and which Ministry of Interior officials are responsible for not taking such measures?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u153	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Here's your answer, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u154	Dear Mr. Tsochev, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Stanilov, you are asking a question that is very disturbing. I'll introduce you to the actual state. Thank you for this opportunity to make it public, putting this question to me and answering you. I think we are facing a case that we are facing today, but tomorrow someone else may be, and it requires a legislative solution. At present, no contractor has been selected for the delivery of registration plates because both procedures which have been awarded under the Public Procurement Act have been appealed and suspended. Complaints are two companies.. our opinion, the analysis we did is that the actions taken by them do not aim to achieve economic logic or any other fair result, but only aim to make it difficult, even deliberately block the activities of the Ministry of Interior in the service of citizens related to the registration of motor vehicles. What have we done so far? The Ministry of Interior has launched a public procurement procedure on 11 February, almost seven months before the expiry of the last contract. The procedure has been appealed four times. In each complaint, the applicant requested the imposition of a temporary measure "stopping the procedure'. In such a case, the contracting authority shall suspend the procedure. Due to the use of this legal option by the applicant, the procedure has been suspended four times, even before the submission of tenders. At the next stage, in order to find a solution in these circumstances, the Director of the Directorate of Property Management and Social Activities is announcing a negotiated procedure without a notice. A new complaint has been brought against the decision in the KPC, requesting a temporary measure to suspend the procurement procedure and the procedure has also been automatically suspended. In order to ensure the normal functioning of the registration of vehicles, we organise decentralisation of supplies, each of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, in relation to its needs, initiates a procedure for the delivery of registration plates. Orders shall be carried out under the order of Chapter eight of the Public Procurement Act by means of a public invitation. In this order, we provide the necessary signs in place until the legal proceedings are completed. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that the information I provide to you today is public and anyone interested could obtain it, be sure of its credibility. The acts of the court and the decisions of the KPC concerning the procedures described above are published on the website of the Ministry of Interior, the website of the Board of Directors - The Property Management Directorate. I have personally ordered, in the last month, every day I receive information about the situation in each district directorate, the state of negotiation and we have informed citizens of the period within which this registration will be postponed so that we can receive the signs. At this point, these are the legal opportunities we have. We've done all the consultations we can, and we're doing it this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. For the line.. prof. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u156	Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior! Here I can divide your response into several parts by each of which I will say one or two sentences. Firstly, that you personally bear the full responsibility that your employees have not made it necessary for this crisis not to happen. Secondly, what is not relevant to you is the insufficient perfection of the Public Procurement Act and the lack of full responsibility, the existence of complete irresponsibility in the Public Procurement Agency, whose fault is here that instead of perfecting this Law and presenting to the National Assembly through the Council of Ministers attempts to improve, it blocks public procurement not only in this sector, but also in other sectors for which I have perfect information. Personally, I've been sitting on these blockages, and this needs to be perfected. This is the work of your ministry and of you to make in the National Assembly the relevant proposals and this will no longer happen. And third, I never go out to ask questions on the day of parliamentary control on my initiatives or to come up with them from the press. These questions always form on the basis of letters of my constituents and not just my own, but voters, Bulgarian citizens from all over the country. For this question I have provided you, I have received 19 letters from different constituencies. It means that the crisis was really deep so that people could lose patience and not have much difficulty with these signs. The responsibility remains with you, and remains with the government. Here we heard in Mrs Karayancheva's statement many reassuring phrases that everything is okay, that everything has been going evenly. As you can see, not everything can go evenly and yet it is the responsibility of the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u157	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Right on the dot, you're out. Question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov about the incident of Terminal 1 at Sofia airport. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! This issue has largely lost its relevance in terms of the time limits of events, which I refer to in my question, but has in no way lost its relevance in terms of what is happening in Europe, especially after the acts of terrorism in Paris. Just to remind: on 1 December 2015 the Bulgarian public was seriously worried by the leaking information about what was happening at Terminal 1 at Sofia Airport, namely the reports of an explosive device found. In light of the circumstances, even personally I was in the area of the airport and saw the cavalcade of media, buses, vans and what was not created an extremely interesting reality show with which the Bulgarian society was quite well engaged. In relation to what I have put out, please answer the following question: were the actions of the Ministry of Interior adequate in the current situation and what measures have you taken not to repeat such ridiculous moments in the disposal of terrorism in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u159	Madam Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u160	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ivanov! Here I had prepared to present the chronology of this event, but I will save it because it is more important that I tell you something else. Compared to the last two years, the controls for the presence of explosive devices in dubious objects have increased three times, especially in recent months. These are events that we do not underestimate, and even when there are obvious reasons not to carry out the necessary checks and treat with attention and act in a way that is supposed to be justified. Our society has yet to get used to this kind of behavior and action. We have also prepared some advice and rules that we will present publicly. But specifically: in terms of the actions of the employees who were involved in the case, both the Border Police and the SDVR and the SOBT were adequate to our overall assessment after the event. It is their duty to take the necessary measures in case of doubts about violations of public security. Their actions have been coordinated within the established rules of procedure that I have signed. Now, according to them, any threat to an explosive device is considered to be genuine, all the more so that in this case indications of the presence of an explosive device are confirmed by two specialised dogs and a device. SOBT officials assured me that there is no such case in their practice when the suspicion of the existence of an explosive device is reconfirmed by the various mechanisms that can be applied. From the occurrence of the situation until the closure of the police officers no information has been provided to the mass media, as is usually done in order not to create panic. Representatives of the same were directed to the Press Centre of the Ministry of Interior according to the established order in such cases. A public relations officer at Sofia airport has made a statement to the media that there is a car at the airport where an IED is found, even it had confirmed it without any reason to do so. The employees of the Ministry of Interior have not communicated detailed information to the media or to employees at Sofia airport. In the course of the investigation of the airport press centre officer, pre-trial proceedings were initiated for a criminal offence under art. 326 of the Criminal Code, which reads:....... by radio, telephone or otherwise false calls or misleading signs of assistance, accident or anxiety, is punished by imprisonment for up to two years...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This must be clear to all citizens. As regards the media coverage of the Ministry of Interior's actions on the case described, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications has been notified by letter to the Secretary-General, requesting, within the framework of its functional competence to achieve civil aviation security, to ensure the purchase of portable partition facilities. In addition to ensuring the proper functioning of the verification and prevention of a possible terrorist act, adequate security measures will also be provided in accordance with the provision of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 of the Civil Aviation Act. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In conclusion, very importantly, I would like to inform you that in relation to the complicated security environment on my order, a draft of a national counterterrorism plan has been drawn up, which is in the process of co-ordination for bringing it to the Council of Ministers. The plan is part of a package of measures to counter terrorism, including a strategy to counter radicalisation and terrorism and an implementation plan. The plan provides for three levels of threat of terrorist activity and four levels of readiness to respond to the authorities of the executive power, specific activities are scheduled.. This is the new one to implement the competent ministries and departments, regional governors and mayors of municipalities, as well as the management of the processes in such a situation. I hope that in a few days he will be admitted to a meeting of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u161	Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u162	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I really expected a slightly more serious response from you, because what you said the public should get used to such situations, it puzzled me a little. I don't understand what exactly she needs to get used to with the panic she's in or the checks? Recently, I have personally observed similar checks on the airbenders, how they ended up blowing up suitcases and so on. I'm guessing you've been watching too. I don't understand why all the guilt about what happened has to be passed on to an airport employee who I think is a civil servant. The Ministry of the Interior had all the powers to stop the submission of such information by one airport employee. In no way am I questioning the professionalism of the employees. I guess they were doing their job. Another question is whether the technique or methodology they used was the right one. Imagine a situation where, for example, a hunter fellow must travel to Brussels and leave his service car at the airport, the hunting gloves are forgotten in the trunk and how he will find his car. [[National Representative Krasimir Yankov of BSP LB laughs.]] It was not for a reason that we proposed that the funds for such equipment should be increased in the adoption of the budget of the Ministry of Interior. Unfortunately, the majority that you represent has not accepted these proposals. I'm afraid this won't be the only case. It's a good thing you guys made some kind of plan. I hope that it will be discussed in detail in the Commission. I hope there will be a Commission meeting soon, because there are obviously some processes going on there. I don't know if there's a chairman like that now. I hope you'll come and tell us. [[Extending laughter from BSP LB.]] I certainly do not accept what you said that all the blame for everything that has happened is thanks to a regular employee at Sofia Airport. I am convinced that you could have interrupted, at least with cordon and with the presence of police to seal off the area and there the media could not transmit this reality, from which people were literally panicked. I was there in the area, and I didn't know what was going on. I was expecting the airport to blow up any minute! In my opinion, you should seek responsibility elsewhere, not in one airport employee, at all, throughout the entire organization of the disposal of such an explosive device, hypothetically. Really, think about it, if a fellow hunter goes with a glove in the trunk what will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u163	Thank you. Mrs. Secretary, you've had a two-minute window.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u164	He's gonna need a car.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u165	Mr. Ivanov, I hope no fellow hunter does this because it's not right for him to do it. There are conditions under which weapons and ammunition are stored. Sorry, that's a ridiculous thesis you're saying! We didn't target an employee just to have someone guilty. This woman told me twice that she had an explosive device after no one had given her that information! What should we do in this case?! The fact that the area is closed according to the rules, and unfortunately, there have been three such cases. These are the resources we have. Three times has been confirmed the suspicion of the presence of such devices. Citizens need to get used to most of the checks we're going to do. Citizens must get used to the fact that, to the greatest regret, a new order is needed where it is necessary to restrict some of their rights in order to ensure security. That's the situation right now. We are very responsible for her. Yes, it would be interesting if we could present this plan. It will be an act of the Council of Ministers, but it has a very operational nature and will also be dealt with in the Security Council. Because there were speculations, wasn't there a plan like this? None of the documents filed at the Ministry of Interior did any good! None of them showed exactly who was doing what. It was just a common wish. We developed it to the most specific instructions: who does what, how to subordinize information, how to determine the levels of threat, how to deal with the media. Let's move on. Each ministry will develop its own plan to know how it works. From now on, I hope we don't find out in practice. I can assure everyone that such a document exists, and even now we are acting according to the instructions that we have signed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u166	Thank you. He has the floor for a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u167	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! At the beginning of this week, Turkish Prime Minister Davutoglu was visiting Bulgaria. I did not notice sober analyses in both Bulgarian politicians and Bulgarian media regarding the visit of this politician to neighboring Turkey. Mr. Davutoglu is no ordinary Prime Minister of Turkey. I do not see any reason for these fanfares with which he was welcomed in Bulgaria and for these praises he received from all sorts of traditionally praising all anti-Bulgarian events and shows rounds in Bulgaria. Mr. Davutoglu, other than the Prime Minister of Turkey, is also the ideologist of neo-Osmanism. Neo-Osmanism is not an empty concept, it is a state policy of the Republic of Turkey over the last 11 years, when the same gentleman was a foreign minister, and he has been a prime minister of Turkey for one year. There were even people who presented his book Strategic depth as almost brilliant scientific work. I'm saying this so everyone knows it! The book "Strategic depth" is an ideological program. Since 2004 it has been the official doctrine of the Republic of Turkey, it has been adopted as a programme of the currently ruling party in Turkey. This is the programme of the Republic of Turkey's foreign policy. This, in a way, is my struggle which Adolf Hitler conducted as a programme and led Europe to a total disaster. At the time when this gentleman was a foreign minister, and now the Prime Minister, Turkish schools are studying teaching aids with maps in which southern Bulgaria, including Burgas, are part of Turkey, part of the Balkans are part of Turkey, Northern Syria is part of a new Turkey. This is the person to whom many people applauded in Bulgaria, not only applauded, but also explained how this is Bulgaria's best friend. Dear colleagues, for the past 11 years Turkey has shown that it has no lasting friends, but has lasting neo-Osmanist interests. I'm just going to give a few examples. For decades Turkey received arms, financial, economic assistance from the United States of America. However, when the policy of the United States of America went away with their policy in Iraq, Turkey stabbed them. Israel, a country with which they allegedly had brilliant friendly relations, five years ago Turkey's current president, whose strategist was Mr. Davutoglu, slapped a friendly Israel as well. Syria, where he went and kissed the mother of the previous president's hand and called her my mother, Turkey organized and to this day organized armed groups of terrorists.. organized, trained, funded, armed and sent to Syrian territory, and thanks to Turkey the war continues! Taking the case of Russia, Russia, with which Turkey was hugging, kissing and explaining how it would implement huge projects in the energy sector, the Turkish Stream and so on. Apropo, speaking of the case of Russia, which is the fourth example in a row, which I have given for the fact that Turkey has no traditional friends, and only has its own neo-Osmanist interests, certain opportunities open up to Bulgaria. According to recent Russian government orders, Russian tourists will stop visiting the Republic of Turkey. That's $4 million. Here I address the Bulgarian government. By including Russian citizens, Ukrainian citizens, Belarus, Moldova, who were traditional visitors to Turkish resorts, in this situation their flow will decrease. Bulgaria will very quickly have to rethink its visa policy and the way in which citizens of Russia, Ukraine, Moldova, Belarus will receive fast and why not free visas. By the way, Italy already has. If Italy is not an example to us, as a member of the European Union, I do not know who else can be an example to us! Italy did it soon, but Greece and Cyprus do it a long time ago, very quickly! The truth is that Bulgarian tourism can be helped very seriously if we ease the visa regime towards these countries and attract some of these about five million tourists who visited Turkey. Imagine attracting 10% of them. This means about 500 "600 " million. EUR in the Bulgarian tourism industry. Speaking of which, let us note that after the failure of major energy projects between Russia and Turkey, why not take out again and raise the issue of developing our energy projects? How long are we gonna be naive and wait for someone else to define our policy? Third, an opportunity for the Bulgarian food industry and Bulgarian agriculture. These are all things to think about. The country's management means to react quickly to emerging opportunities for support, development of the Bulgarian economy, the Bulgarian business, and hence, of course, for more revenue, which funds in the budget could be successfully allocated to the pensions of Bulgarian citizens, i.e. social policy, in health, in education. I don't know a country that had such opportunities and didn't. I hope that we will not miss and this is my appeal to the Bulgarian government, we will not miss these chances. Listening to the speeches of some European politicians and some Bulgarian politicians on the fact that we will now speed up the process of entering Turkey into the European Union, I want again, based on this strategic depth of Prime Minister Davutoglu, to tell you: ladies and gentlemen, Turkey has no intention of entering the European Union. Turkey's policy is focused not on Euro-Atlantic values, but on neo-Osmanist imperial thinking towards the revival of the Ottoman Empire at least as economic, political and cultural influence. Do not be naive and think that Turkey of nobility and of good feelings keeps these two million illegal immigrants on its territory, who, apropo, she is one of the culprits to go there because she organised a war in their homeland. Those two million Turkeys don't keep them out of nobility. It holds them as an instrument of pressure against Europe. And its aim is not to join the European Union, but to acquire benefits and benefits, concessions for its citizens, its business, its economy from the European Union. However, if its officials prevail in Europe, which formulate a completely inadequate policy on the policy and future of Europe, then Bulgaria is obliged to be a country bordering on this conflict and to be much more pragmatic, reasonable, clear and nationally responsible. This is what we agreed when Mrs Merkel invited all millions from the Middle East, Asia and Africa to visit and stay in Germany a few months ago. That's not what he's saying now. Should we wait for any Brussels, from Berlin or somewhere else to tell you what to be the sensible Bulgarian policy? The answer is: "No! " When we talk about pragmatism, that means we stop being naive and sluggish. I just want to remind you of an exception part of the Management Program. In the management programme, one of the things that was put by the Patriotic Front as a condition for support of the current government is if the issue of Turkey's membership in the European Union were to be held a national referendum something that I think would be both reasonable and democratic, and would show the true moods of Bulgarian citizens. So, honourable Members, we at the Patriotic Front state clearly and categorically: we are against any concessions with regard to the Republic of Turkey as regards its EU membership. We are opposed to any concessions for the allocation of these huge immigrant quota tables across European countries. We didn't make the war in the Middle East. We didn't have an expansion policy. We Bulgarians will not have to pay this bill. To pay for those who caused the problems. In conclusion, since this is the end of this parliamentary session, I want to wish the Bulgarian government more energy. Today, we from the Patriotic Front, or more precisely the majority of the Patriotic Front, have supported the election of a new minister, but this does not mean that the notes we have had towards the activity and, above all, the speed at which the problems are solved have dropped. We state clearly and categorically that we support governance because of the programme in which we have participated and supported, but we believe that many problems such as those in the energy sector, such as these problems related to domestic crime in the country, such as problems related to the sluggish and non-working administration, are problems that remain and we expect in the next year with new powers and the Bulgarian government, and the whole Bulgarian Parliament, I am not only talking about the four political formations that support it, the whole Bulgarian Parliament to be responsible, seriously, because Bulgaria is not only of those who govern it today. Bulgaria belongs to all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB, PF and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u168	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. We continue with the questions from parliamentary control. The next question will be asked by the national representative Krasimir Yankov...... about ensuring the protection of public order and guaranteeing the security of citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u169	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Bachvarova, colleagues! The international situation has changed and there is a possible threat of terrorist attacks on the territory of the country. These are the challenges facing the government in the coming months and years. In this regard, my specific question is also: is the patrol work secured by the respective departments of the Ministry of Interior in the country and what are the measures to ensure the protection of public order and guarantee the security of citizens in the areas of public buildings, universities, schools, kindergartens, cribs and children's kitchens? Madam Minister, in your reply I expect to hear not simply and briefly: yes, we have the respective opportunities, but to reassure the Bulgarian citizens that the Ministry of Interior has the readiness, has made a prescription, has taken preventive measures, has provided instructions in the relevant public buildings to calm Bulgarian citizens in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u170	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Iankov, my sincere task and desire is to reassure the Bulgarian citizens and not to let them worry. You must know that literally hours after the attack was carried out on November 13th, we called the National Operations Headquarters, made the appropriate decisions to implement measures. Less than 24 hours later, we performed a specialized operation that gave very good results. Again in a few hours we had an official meeting with Mrs. Fandakova, where we specified all the objects for which security patrols had to change. The focus is mainly on schools, cultural institutions, kindergartens and so on. There's a list of objects with increased security. Not only on patrol post activity, on all lines of activities for which the Ministry of Interior is responsible special instructions are given. Investigative, informational, extremely important, security, including administrative services, to monitor what is happening, border controls, increased, as high as possible. The preventative activity has no site in Sofia, you just had another issue that we didn't give prescriptions for what, how to check its security system and raise them. During this week, training was carried out for the management of the security police at the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate by lecturers of the Specialized Counter-Terrorism Unit. We aim to improve in due time the preparation of the staff of the Ministry of Interior structures, reacting to initial urgent actions in order to prepare or carry out a terrorist act on the territory of the country. In addition, by order of the Secretary General of 16 November 2015, and currently, measures are being implemented in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior to ensure the personal safety and the lives of citizens. Working meetings shall be held with managers of companies providing transport services, which shall focus on increased vigilance and continuous surveillance of luggage in vehicles. Guidance has been given regarding additional action in strengthening security under the crossing regime, managers of security companies, private managers of companies from the energy and transport system and managers of high-visibility sites. It is focused on raising attention in monitoring the relevant territories for left unattended items. Last but not least, a measure of extreme importance has been drawn up and plans for interaction between the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior and Gendarmerie are being implemented. They relate to initial action on a signal. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And specifically on your question, to complement the patrol and post work is secured and daily measures are implemented to protect public order and ensure the security of citizens in measures that have been ordered. They were updated at yesterday's date, and the other day, and instructions regarding the upcoming holidays, taking into account this threat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u172	You'll continue in the back if you have any more information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u173	We're constantly analyzing the situation to make the most accurate and the most accurate instructions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u174	Mr. Yankov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, dear Mrs. Bachvarova! I did not hear in your reply whether there are any functions of the Security Council at the Council of Ministers. Has he been sitting, is he involved in what needs to be done as a prescription, as an organisation, as possible threat hypotheses? After all, we voted in the parliamentary hall with which we regulated this Security Council of the Council of Ministers and President is Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. That is, the responsibility for your actions is personally borne by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Boyko Borisov. It is as if we missed it in connection with the debate and the actions of the Ministry of Interior and the services when they reacted at Sofia airport and for these measures that you have taken, I stress, within really 24 hours, after the terrorist attacks in Paris, but whether the vigilance of the authorities will be such as a constant activity for the upcoming holidays, as it is an opportunity to gather many people in certain places. The threat exists. We are part of this cross-border crime, which includes the entire European Union and the commitment, your commitment, must be a direct function of Boyko Borisov's commitment. Otherwise, yes, for the first time I hear you admit that a commitment to ensuring the safety of Bulgarian citizens have not only those who perform patrol-posting activities, because it is a complex approach to the response of the Ministry of Interior by the employees. Some employees collect information, others summarize it, third analyze it, fourth prepare operations [[The President gives a sign that the time has expired.]] and by no means can we say that these are the bagmen in the Ministry, because this complex approach is an emancipation of the labor of everyone in the Ministry of Interior. Personally, I expect a little more information to the Bulgarian citizens such as explanations, instructions so that we do not get into situations where everyone who impresses him will inform the Ministry of Interior and hence all the services.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u176	Thank you. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u177	Mr. Iankov, in order to reassure you, the Prime Minister has participated twice directly in the meetings of the operational headquarters. For each of the other meetings, I personally inform him, and the Secretary of the Security Council has a permanent participation. In practice, all who participate in the operational headquarters have a slightly narrower format in the Security Council, but such meetings are held weekly, sometimes twice. The information shall be monitored and the Prime Minister shall be informed of any decision and action. On the other hand, you should know that the Security Council of the Council of Ministers has no operational functions. He has rather consultative, recommended. In order to take full action, a secretariat must be built to it, but it is a commitment of the Secretary of this Council. We act before the council itself in the composition which it suggests, and the detailed functions are described in this plan, which I announced just now exists, and will take effect literally the coming days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u178	Thank you. The next question is from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov on analysis and risk assessment of the transfer of the refugee flow from the Republic of Macedonia to the Republic of Bulgaria. You have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Republic of Macedonia began building a 50km wire fence along its border with Greece. About 10 km to the present stage have already been built. The aim of this facility is to close all the places used by immigrants in order to avoid border and police control. From June to today, more than 300,000 have passed from Greece to the Republic of Macedonia. refugees. My question, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, to you is as follows: Has the Ministry of Interior performed a risk analysis and assessment for Bulgaria under these changed circumstances? Is the management of the Ministry of Interior planning for adequate action in the possible redirection of the emigrant flow to the Republic of Bulgaria, and will there be a border police need of the capacity for human and technical resources to deal with such a potential problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u180	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Madam Minister, please come in and answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u181	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Belemezov! The operational headquarters, which I mentioned in my reply to the previous question, monitors the situation throughout the entire extension of the national border and in each of its meetings and evaluates the levels of risk in each section. I can assure you that the competent authorities of the Border Police Directorate-General closely monitor the situation along the state border, including the border with the Republic of Macedonia. Out of all available sources, including extraordinary working meetings between sectoral border committees with the Republic of Macedonia, no specific information has been received so far to justify the conclusion of the immediate threat of redirecting the refugee flow to the Republic of Bulgaria. To date, border patrols have not identified cases of crossing the border by groups of illegal migrants. As a result of strict implementation of the procedures against those detained in an attempt to illegally cross the state border, our employees do not allow out-of-control movements of large groups across the country, including through Macedonia. Despite the calm situation at our common border so far, we have taken specific preventive measures. The number of seconded staff from the Regional Directorate of Border Police (SOC) is reduced to participate in the specialized operation held at the Bulgarian-Turkish border and 30 employees will participate in the security of the state border with the Republic of Macedonia. At the present stage there are also joint events of border police and military officers from the Ministry of Defence at the Bulgarian-Macedonian border, something that we started in June. They are aimed at achieving prevention with regard to illegal passage, as well as the identification and detention of possible persons carrying out such a crossing. I say possible. The activities of gathering, generalising and analyzing information on the state and trends in the development of the situation along our common border continue and are ready, if necessary and within a short time, to redirect employees to the endangered directions and to implement additional measures in the area together with the Ministry of Defence. Even in the summer, such a plan was developed. There is such a plan in the possible development of the situation in an adverse direction along this part of our border. Fortunately, we don't have to activate it right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u182	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I actually took the liberty of asking this question on the eve of a 2015 going away, in which a year of undisputed security sector was faced with a number of challenges. Two of the main, absolutely undeniably and categorically, are the migratory flow and the threat of terrorism. These are, in fact, relevant security threats at all to Europe as a whole. And in this regard, we believe that it is necessary to conduct a modern analysis of the topic "Safety" in general, in which a modern analysis of the topic "Safety" should include two main components for Bulgaria: internal security and national security include, of course, defence. That is why guarding the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria is an extremely important fragment of this common national security, and I believe that any prevention that we can provide will be extremely appropriate and extremely relevant at this time and situation. In this regard, I would like to clarify and further ask you: is there an analysis carried out by the Ministry of Interior, is there at all a plan to be made to include all the topics and issues and all the problems that we have been through during the year in the security sector? If yes, will there be an opportunity for us to meet him in a short time? And in fact, what kind of analysis, everything that has been achieved this year, or has not been achieved, corresponds, corresponds or does not, to everything that is set out in the government programme in the period 2014 - 2018, I refer to Chapter Security and Public Order? In other words, is there such an analysis and, if not, planned to be done so that we could actually draw out more correctly the priorities on which we can now look for options and finance further to the Ministry and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u184	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Mrs. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get a copy of the MP's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u185	Mr. Belemezov, there are analyses for the development of the situation in each of the directions and policies of the Ministry of Interior, which I receive on a weekly basis. A recent analysis of the situation in Europe and the common security environment is also done on a weekly basis. They are internal documents and I am extremely pleased with the result we have achieved after the division of the Kiad Directorate and the separation of the information-analytic unit, because it is currently focused on this particular task. I can tell you that the overall analysis of the activities of the Ministry of Interior and the security environment will be carried out in the Annual Report on the activities of the Ministry of Interior. He'll be public. It can be considered and, judging by the report that was made for the first six months, I think it is a good enough basis for planning the activities, but the information-analytic activity at the Ministry of Interior in the last few months after the changes is extremely active. I am personally very pleased with the quality of this activity, because it specifically helps us in every case that we need to solve, and also making more general political decisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u186	The last question for today to the Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova is from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev on the measures taken to ensure adequate measures for security and protection of public order in the capital district of Ovcha kupel.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u187	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, my question is related to a number of signals that I have received from residents of the capital district of Ovcha, who bought and their concern that there is a cluster (they define it) of: Men of Arabic origin, men with wounds who gather in groups around the neighborhood and who behave in distress. People are worried about what the Ministry of Interior has done in this direction. In this regard, I ask you three questions: how many signals related to refugees have been received in the territory of the SDVR for disturbing public order by the residents of Ovcha Kupel? What checks have been carried out for violations of public order by refugees in the territory? What measures were taken by the Ministry of Interior to ensure adequate security measures? The concern there is actually that the Ovcha coupe is used for some kind of intermediate train station for illegal sewers who deal with sewers for refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u188	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u189	Dear Mr. Tsochev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Mr. Ananiev, in the Sixth Regional Management of the SDVR, serving the territory of the residential complex Ovcha kupel. Since the beginning of 2015, a total of four written signals have been received for violations of public order by foreign citizens, accommodated at the Registration-Accommodation Centre. Three of them were submitted by residents in a co-op on Street. The fourth signal is for illegal transport of foreign citizens. In their complaints, citizens complain that shops and establishments in the cooperative do not observe working hours and are visited by many foreigners who pollute the area, use alcohol and make noise. Apart from the commercial sites, the garden in front of the cooperative was also a gathering place for large groups of foreigners, especially during the warm months, when they spend the night in the open and listen to loud music. Officers of the Sixth District Authority have carried out a check that the senders of the alert have been notified in writing. Until now, there have been no violations of compliance with the working time of the commercial sites, which are cited in the signals. There was also a meeting between police officers and residents in the cooperative. An operational surveillance has been organised on the occasion of the illegal carriage of foreign nationals. On-the-spot checks have been carried out on persons in the area. At present, no refugees have been identified without registration cards issued by the SAB (State Agency for Refugees) or with no temporary cards, i.e. there is no violation by residents of this centre, at least they have not been established. The measures taken are the following: the address is included in the tour of the forces of the unit of the Sixth District Management, periodically planned and carried out specialized police operations, and checks are carried out on the other interblock spaces in the district of Ovcha kupel, in front and in various establishments, while respecting the order. Meetings were held with the managements of establishments and companies carrying out security activities in the area, special attention was paid to the check-out regime................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Due to the considerable number of immigrants accommodated in the hostel, at the disposal of the Mayor of Sofia Mrs. Fandakova, the external guards are provided by police forces from the Department of Specialized Police, drivers of service dogs, and, if possible, employees from the sector of the Municipal Police. In addition, a meeting was held with the head of security of the State Agency for Refugees, which dealt with issues related to the security of populated foreigners, as well as the taking of joint actions to ensure public order. In order to improve the local infrastructure are sent signal letters to the mayor of the district Ovcha Kupakal for building street lighting in the area of the Center. I had a chance to visit him a few months ago. He was extremely filled. His full capacity isn't complete right now. I guess the complaints reflect that level.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. The line, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u191	Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for the answer I received. My call relates to what you said in a previous speech in response to a colleague, and you said that it is very important for you that people have a sense of security. I, with the people I was talking to in Ovcha, felt the opposite that they actually have this feeling of uncertainty, so my request is to do everything possible to return this feeling of security and people to be calm, to see, and I see that measures have been taken, perhaps there is still enough to take, because if this uncertainty is happening in the capital, I can only imagine in the country how it would be, so this is my call to you, because there is really tension. I think there were some reports in the media in that direction as well. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish everyone a happy holiday and wish everyone a successful year next year!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u192	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. The right to the doppelganger? I won't. Thank you to Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister for Participation in Today's Parliamentary Control. Six questions and one question will be answered by Mr. Petar Moskov, Minister of Health. The first question is from the MP Manol Trifonov Genov on the measures of the Ministry of Health to preserve the building fund of the Ministry and the decisions for its use. Here you are, dear Mr. Genov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u193	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, my question is related to the measures of the Ministry of Health to preserve the building fund of the Ministry and the solutions for its use. In the village of Streltsi, municipality of Brezovo, district of Plovdiv until 2006 was functioning Children's Hospital for the Treatment of asthma, bronchitis and other pulmonary diseases of children from 3 to 16 years old. The hospital was opened in 1969 when you, Mr. Minister, were probably not yet born as a branch of Plovdiv County Hospital for the treatment of children with pulmonary diseases. For financial reasons, 11 years ago, it was closed, and the building was closed. At the moment, it is looting and destroying itself as a result of a carefree attitude and of numerous thefts of building materials from it. My question to you is: is there a view from the Ministry of the possible disclosure of a subsidiary for the treatment of children with such diseases and, if not, how will the building of the hospital be protected and what are the future actions that will be taken in the direction of preserving and storing the building fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u194	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Minister Moskov, come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u195	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, regarding the questions you have raised regarding the closed in 2006 in the village of Streltsi, the municipality of Brezovo, Plovdiv Children's Hospital for the treatment of asthma, bronchitis and other pulmonary diseases of children from 3 to 16 years of age, whose building is currently being plundered and destroyed due to the idle attitude and numerous theft of building material from it, as well as the ministry's vision of possible management and the future again as a Philial for the treatment of children with pulmonary diseases, I inform you of the following. The unit for children with non-specific pulmonary diseases was part of the structure of the Hospital "Plovdiv" AD until 2006, when it was closed. The properties and the building are state owned under the Private State Property Act No 7370 of 9 March 2011 and are managed and managed by a regional governor and district of Plovdiv. In this regard, your question regarding the measures taken to protect the building fund should be addressed to the district governor of Plovdiv, who, according to art. 31, para. 3 of the Administration Act is responsible for the protection and protection of state property. Here in the answer I will provide you are the property statements if they are useful to you in your further actions with regard to the building. With regard to the Ministry of Health's intentions to resume the activities of the indoor compartment, I inform you that in the medical standards, including the standard of medical care, requirements are laid down to ensure the minimum required volume and scope of medical structures, respectively organisational, personnel and qualification medical activities and equipment in order to ensure the quality of medical care. According to these requirements and Ordinance No 49/08.10.2015 on the main requirements to be met by the device, activity and internal order of hospital care facilities and medical and social care homes, at the moment nine multi-profile hospitals are operating in the territory of Plovdiv for active treatment with pediatrics with a total of 330 beds. In medical facilities for outpatient care, that is to say specialized practices, medical centers and GCC work 115 doctors with an acquired specialty in pediatrics, of which 7 with an acquired specialty of children's pneumology and phthsiatry. I inform you that for 2014 and 2015, there have been no complaints from parents about problems in hospitalization and treatment of children with pulmonary pathology. In this regard, I believe that at present there is available and quality outpatient and hospital assistance for the treatment of children with pulmonary diseases in the territory of Plovdiv and the Ministry of Health does not intend to resume the activities of the indoor compartment. Here I leave the entire file, along with the extracts from the property documents, to be of use to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u196	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u197	I thank you for your answer, Minister. Thanks for the file you left me, too, because I'm not gonna leave it that way. Apparently, the state is again the owner of this thing because not only the Ministry of Health, but also the state where there are buildings with private state property acts resemble ghosts already, a source of opportunity for professional theft of building materials.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u198	There's no question about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u199	It's a good thing you don't have an argument. In addition, they pose a danger as buildings where accidents may occur. Thank you again for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u200	Thank you, Mr. Genov. There won't be a hole, will there, Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u202	Question from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov Raynov on the financial situation of the hospitals for the period November 2014. "October 2015" Here you are, dear Mr. Raynov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, it's been a year since you've been in charge of the Ministry of Health. I would like to be informed under your leadership how the duties of public hospitals have changed, as well as the duties of hospitals with predominantly state participation in the past period? Also, how is this correlated with the so bold statement the last few days that the Cashier, respectively, has saved nearly 400 million, at all what happens to the property of which you are a principal, to which you are the owner and for which you are directly responsible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u204	Thank you, Dr. Raynov. Minister Moskov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u205	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Raynov, I will answer the question first precisely in the manner of the time frame in which the time frame is fixed November last year - October this year - and then I will give some additional data which, I think, will benefit you in the formation of your conclusions and policy. At present the Ministry of Health has received summary information and based on the time frame of your question I answer you the following. The total amount of the liabilities of hospitals with more than 50% State participation in capital as of 30 September 2015 amounted to 371 million. 212 thousand. lv.; the total amount of the outstanding liabilities of those hospitals for the same period.. 30 September 2015 is 141 million. 367 thousand. lv. including, in terms of the total number, not separately. In comparison to the period quoted by you in November 2014, the change in the amount of liabilities of state-owned hospitals is seen in an increase of around 4 million. 212 thousand. BGN 367 thousand respectively. lv. as a default compared to November 2014, which is mainly due to an increase in the responsibilities of several medical institutions due to the acquisition of new, truly ultra-modern medical equipment. For example, at Alexandrovska Hospital, where funds from the Revolving Fund, which you know is essentially one direct assistance, come on, let's not say "help" because we enter into another conversation, are given. This is part of the obligations of these hospitals and on this basis is increased. In comparison with the period November 2014, the change in the amount of overdue liabilities with a predominantly state-owned capital is a small increase of 1 million. $700,000. BGN, which is approximately 1% of 139 million. 664 thousand. lv. On 31 November 2014 until 141 million respectively. 367 thousand. lv. On 30 September 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333. In response to that question, I have given several comparisons for large hospitals, for which the increase in liabilities is generally a large proportion. For example, in St. George's, there is a reduction of the obligation of 46 million on November 30th. In 2014, it's now 40 million. In the hospital of oncohematology, it's going from 26 million to 23. In Stara Zagora, Kirkovic is from 24 to 26 million, but there is a process for which your people from Stara Zagora will say that this is how they follow things over the years. I am in a hurry to protect you from the wrong conclusions, because in fact the basis of your question is related to whether the Cashier's methodology relating to restrictions on hospital spending has led to an increase in liabilities. If I'm wrong, correct me, but the conversation we have with you is meaningful. It must be clear that, as a result of this measure, this leads to the decapitalisation of medical institutions. In this regard, let's say that if we take the structure of the obligations for the period as of 31 December 2014 and relate it to 15 December 2015, that is, two days ago, since I have the latest data, it is not your question, but I owe you an answer: as of 31 December 2014, the amount of the liabilities of public and municipal hospitals was a total of 396 million. 784 thousand. lv. At this time it is 371 million, i.e. 25 million on an annual basis, the total debt has decreased, and the default from 147 to 141 million, i.e. 6 million less. On an annual basis, we once again have a reduction of the total debt by 25 million and a reduction of the default by 6 million. This does not mean that the methodology, administrative and so on is perfect. If you want, I will leave you the detailed reference for the comparison between 2013 and 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u206	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line is Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand all that. You have correctly grasped the thought of whether the nonpayment of the so-called "dismissive activity of the Cassata" will not appear as an obligation in the hospital. I am forced to believe what you are giving as a reference, but at the same time I cannot help but say that just a day or two ago the media reported the famous unification of Alexandrovska Hospital, where it is clearly seen that during the time when this unification was made with the best feelings that the most effective use of funds would be achieved. I cannot help but share the concerns of that notorious July report, which you so well presented to the MPs, where it is evident that only 11 hospitals from the 65 state hospitals are in condition, 18 companies from the state hospitals have lost their equity below the amount of the registered capital. In fact, state health is bankrupt. What measures have you taken besides purely political, where one or two or three directors have been replaced at the expense of those who are the most resourceful hospitals? There's no way we don't have to worry about that categorically! And you forgot to answer the main question?? How did you save 400 million to the Bulgarian taxpayers something that is being produced by you and by the Prime Minister, and I think there was another colleague of the patriots, but I do not see it at the moment?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u208	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. Right to the doppelganger, Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u209	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Raynov, first of all, thank you for your tone. With my answer, with the supplement to the answer, with the tables I gave you, and the analysis I'm just saying that the Cashier's methodology didn't reflect as an increase in the Hospital Association. I am far from thinking that the state of hospitals from a fiscal and basic medical point of view is particularly good. A lot has happened and will happen. We in the Commission are having these talks. Once again, this is a medical fact. Compared to the reference submitted to me yesterday by the Cashier's Operative Management, at this time after the Ministry's execution, the 3 million for vaccines on the Casa budget, even the things I said last week, seem even more optimistic and probably, let it end the year, but let's not forget that in the last days the Casa further paid off around 600,000. lv. for directions in areas where they had ended up. In other words, this is not related to failure to complete medical work, but about 2.5 million will be the Casa deficit at the end of this year. It's an achievement. I thank you for the good tone today and for the good tone in the Commission. I think the work was done well by the Cashier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u210	Thank you, Minister Moskov. The next question is from the National Representative Georgi Chenkov of Tarnovalyski on mass resignations at TelK of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Here you are, Mr. Turnovallisky, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u211	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! The TELK unit in Plovdiv includes five common compositions, two specialized "Telc in Psychiatric Diseases and TELK in Eye Diseases." Last month, 14 of the 17 medics in the structure deposited resignations. The reason for the final action is the absurd clauses in the Code of Social Security and the Health Act, as well as the relevant regulation. According to them, doctors must return the means of disability pensions in an appeal by the NSI to experts of 50% and more than 50% disability. This rain from the resignation of specialists from TELK Plovdiv is unheard of. There's an average of 100 patients to testify every day. They, in turn, complain that they do not receive real rates of disability. Dozens and hundreds are the complaints of the dissatisfied by the experts of the medical committees. The latter, in turn, are under great pressure because any conclusion with 50 and more than 50% potentially can bring them sanctions, even if it is objective, but also massively sanctioning doctors by making revisions to issued wheelchair pension decisions years back. Obviously, the reforms you have undertaken in the sector have led to the personnel bleeding of the system and the patient being deprived of access to the territorial expert medical committees. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what actions will you take to keep the specialists at TelK
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u212	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Minister Moskov, come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u213	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Turnovalliski, after 2000 the medical expertise carried out by the territorial expert medical committees and the National Expert Medical Commission are a permanent subject of active discussion, proposals and assessments. Although in recent years the management of the Ministry of Health has taken various actions to optimize medical expertise, they have not created prerequisites for overcoming the deepening in some points of the problems leading to a reduction in the effectiveness of the work of this expertise and to public discontent. The specific case you are asking about is related to the deposit of resignations of members of TELK at the Hospital of Plovdiv. From the requested information by RZI, Hospital Plovdiv and the territorial division of NSI in the city of Plovdiv it was found that by orders of the Director of the Territorial Division of NI "Plovdiv," in the months July 2015 were ordered partial revisions of the medical groups of TELK to the Hospital of Plovdiv, on the basis of art. 107 of the Social Security Code. The revision refers to the period 2012 - 2014. The individual Chambers of TELK in the revisions of the NSI in June have a total of six contested acts, of which two have been repealed and one has been appealed to the judicial authorities. In October, a total of six overchet acts were drawn up, of which one was awarded. The imposition of audit acts of the doctors of TELK is related to the provisions of art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, t. 1 of the Social Security Code, according to which the control bodies of the NSI shall draw up to natural and legal persons audit acts for damage caused by them to the State social security by improperly incurred insurance costs, including by incorrect certification of insurance service or insurance income and by the acts of medical expertise which have been revoked due to breach of regulations in their issuance. In connection with the situation created on 18 November, a meeting was held with the manager of the NSI Mr. Biser Petkov, where the problems arose. With regard to the issue of the National Insurance Institute, the NSI maintains the following general opinion: the provision of the above-mentioned Article of the Code of Social Security concerns the drawing up of audit acts for all cases of damage to state social security, including acts of medical expertise. In this sense, it concerns all social insurance payments, including invalidity pensions, which are not social aid, but insurance payments within the meaning of the law. The NSI control bodies shall not draw up an act of review on the occasion of any cancelled act of medical expertise. They shall take action to commit to the financial liability of doctors, members of TelK and NELK only where the following conditions are met at the same time: there is an expert decision of TelK or NELK, annulled by an administrative or judicial act; the expert decision annulled by faulty actions or omissions of doctors, expressing themselves in violations of admission and as a result of the cancellation of an expert decision and the damage caused by the funds of the State social security, expressed in a real reduction of the funds of the State social security due to social security costs; and there is a causal link between the damage and the medical infringements of rules governing the expertise. Where, in the course of the audit procedure or on the occasion of an appeal, an administrative procedure has established that there is no evidence of guilt in breach of the imperative provisions governing the expertise of workability, no revision act shall be drawn up or the relevant measure shall be revoked. Those occurring in the particular case in Plovdiv, albeit unrelated to the competence of the Ministry of Health, are only part of the common issues related to the need for a change in the medical expertise system. The main problems are the lack of qualified specialists willing to work in TELMK and NELK because of the restrictions introduced for the practice of the profession and because of the sanction mechanisms and imperfections of the regulatory regulation. I will not argue with you that TELK's decision enters into force immediately, i.e. as financial amounts or integration supplements, which are given to people with a degree of disability, and after which the financial damage is sought retroactively if this is not confirmed at the upper instance. This is not a matter of a decision only for TELK "Plovdiv," or for some specific agreement of the NSI, but is the subject of a real change in the way of labour expertise, which at the end of this year, next week, the two working groups "the common working group between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy" draw up and will enter as amendments to the Health Act. [[the President signals that time has run out]] at the beginning of next year and Parliament to accept them as part of the changes to the Health Act. We've talked to you and the other coworkers. There is the separation of the two types of expertise from the assessment of the specific work and the specific needs of the person to be returned and integrated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u214	Thank you, Minister Moskov. The line, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u215	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Minister, thank you for the full explanation. What you said in the end, I do not think it was necessary. The doctors from TELK in Plovdiv evidently based on these promises for a change in legislation, have withdrawn their resignations in the meantime, my question is more than a month old, and rely on the legislation to be changed. I am still looking forward to using the case, according to your response from February, again related to TELK, a concept for improving the quality of medical expertise. That's how you answered me. I expect this expertise will come true. We've been expecting her for almost a year now, and I hope she's working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u216	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. A hole, Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u217	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Turnovallisky, yes, this is part of the program that the government has set for the first months of next year. Once again, I have to say the sadness of change. First, dividing the two types of expertise from the purely medical: an assessment of your medical condition and degree, your percentage of harmed by another social and medical committee with doctors in occupational medicine, not cardiologists, or orthopedics, or pediatricians to see your condition, which is already relative to the specifics of your work, of your job, of your profession personally, individually makes your social plan, integration supplements, pension and all that is needed. Secondly, removing the inability that is absolutely logical at TelK to work only doctors who cannot work elsewhere. This means that if on the territory, come on, not Stara Zagora, because there are many doctors, in Smolyan's territory for example, you have five eye doctors, none of them can work at TELK to diagnose your eye suffering if you do not give up your work. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u218	I thank Minister Moskov. The next question is from three MPs "Emil Raynov, Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Turnovaliski," concerning the assessment of the Ministry of Health for the economic aspects of the public health tax proposed. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova, you will develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my fellow Members, my question is related to the published Public Health Tax Bill, which... [[The MP Emil Raynov spoke with Minister Moskov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u220	Mr. Raynov, let the Minister hear the question, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u221	My question is related to the Public Health Tax Bill, which you published on your Ministry's website. Interesting reading, especially the motives of this Bill, which quotes above all the experiences of other countries as to how this tax is applied, with quite inaccuracies. For example, Denmark's tax was abolished two years ago, but it is referred to as a good example of the implementation. Hungary, which you also say the tax is being applied, but there you fail to tell what the experience of this tax is and what it has led to in the economic sphere. From this point of view, many things have been missed in the motives related to whether other countries have applied it and why not. In countries such as Germany, Britain and Belgium, this tax or the possibility of being introduced has been discussed for a year and a half or two, but as a result of strong economic arguments, these countries have not applied the tax. I would like to open a clamp in Bulgaria we have a Food Law, there is a Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. All ingredients in Bulgarian and European foods present on the market in order to be offered to the end-user must be safe. And as such, they are offered to end users. By asking you to separate medical expertise from economics, our question is: what economic analyses have been done about the bill that you are proposing? What will be the economic benefits, the consequences for the country's economy for the end consumer, so that we can have an objective idea of how much this tax will lead to improvement of the state of the Bulgarian nation with your thesis that there are harmful foods and they are a set list that should accordingly be sanctioned precisely through this higher tax, which you claim will be at the heart of the law?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Minister, please come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u223	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, Mr. Raynov and Mr. Turnovalysky! Since much has been spoken by the law, I will not read the formality of the answer. Of course you will receive it. I'll try to be brief. Firstly, I am not saying that this is a measure that leads to an improvement in health indicators, the World Health Organization says. If you're willing to argue with me, I'm here for you. If you are willing to argue with the World Health Organization, I will provide you with this opportunity. Is this a precedent? No, it's by no means a precedent. In eleven European countries, there are in different forms additional financial burdens on a particular type of food containing ingredients above a certain amount. Including in Denmark, there is such a tax on some of the things containing sugar. Let's say an example of England at the moment there is a debate in England, in which England is about to accept the so-called Shuger tax. Have we considered the different options in the countries? In some countries, this is linked to an increase in VAT, where there is generally a total lower VAT on food and an increased VAT on soft drinks or sweets or salty things and so on. There are countries where this is in the form of excise duty. There are different practices. We are focusing on a tax project because it is best related to the general production of the Bulgarian tax legislation for a harmonised rate of VAT and specifics of our common European legislation. Let us say that we are practically applying the legal and theoretical model of Hungarian law. A few words about what it has led to, because making predictions of what it will lead to in Bulgaria... Of course, they're made, and if you're interested in the economic analysis, which is this thick. [[shows fingers]] It will be provided to you. It's good to know where this model works, what it's led to. In 2011, Hungary introduced this law, which is related to taxation, we are not talking about harmful foods. We put food that is not essential, that is, in no way food that is related to the things that poor people need to buy, regardless of their quality, and food that we can without, non-alcoholic drinks, chips, snacks, various sweets and such additions to our food. You will agree that neither my diet nor your diet will suffer if we drink less and less soft drinks....................... will not suffer. Nor is it that the main food of the poor is energy drinks. One of these energy drinks contains 13 spoonfuls of sugar. Bulgarian children are the second after the Dutch, using a large amount of energy drinks more than one per day, i.e. more than 26 spoonfuls of sugar per day. I can't separate the medical from the economic motives, because when you have a sick nation, with this structure of morbidity, there will be no one to make an economy, there will be no one to do what it is called on your [[Reply from BSP LB.]] Because you're a specialist to help me. In Hungary, the World Health Organization monitors every year. After the first year, the result was as follows: on average around 27% the consumption of goods, which are taxed with the relevant tax and within the same year about half of the producers who produce food that has come into this tax because they contain salt, sugar and caffeine... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] One second, I'm graduating. ... above the specified value, which has been proven harmful to our body, have reformulated the way in which they offer the appropriate snacks, chips, nuts or soft drinks, have fallen below the taxable value of sugar per litre or per kilogram and have therefore continued to sell their goods in the same form. For the first year, this cost about 1,000 jobs for Hungary, which in the coming years compensated, of course, it had its price, there is no need to lie to each other. Those are the facts and the truths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u224	Thank you. You're welcome, Mr. Tarnovalysky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u225	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, no doubt everyone in this room, in the country, we all want the nation to be healthy. Since food is harmful, I think it is more right to ban them and simply not have such foods, because whether they will be subject to higher or lower taxes, since they are harmful, the nation, albeit a smaller percentage, will suffer. Our question wasn't about that part. Rather, it is related to the requirements of each draft law under the Law on Regulatory Measures for Impact Assessment, which must be done, and a financial and economic analysis, if any. This is what we wanted to be presented to us. You say: we'll introduce him to you. The idea, the requirement of the question, was to present us. I'll leave you some of the analysis here, maybe you know him. It does not show what you claim, at least what is in front of the media, as effects of the introduction. We have also done an analysis, we have used external experts, this is also supported by many organizations. The number of jobs resulting from the introduction of this tax will be 4300. The final effect will be negative because with the 202 million that are expected to be obtained as an effect of this tax, natural persons' income tax in very serious amounts will be lost, and value added tax will, of course, decrease as the purchasing power will decrease. It will also require quite serious administrative costs for the implementation and implementation of the requirements of this law, and, of course, besides the administration itself, equipment, laboratories and so on. Maybe this analysis you did. Last, I believe that, after banning these products, salt, sugar, and so on, which you have listed, such substitutes will appear, the danger of being more harmful will be much greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u226	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Minister Moskov, if you'd like to get in the back of your head, please, to further your analysis.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u227	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Turnovalyski and colleagues who ask the question! First, let's say that in each of the countries where such fiscal measures to change consumer behaviour, on the one hand, and consumer recipes, on the other hand, have been introduced, they have encountered the reaction of the food industry concerned, it has been acute, lobbyist, including seriously paid, and in our case. Of course, there's financial analysis, comparative analysis, legal analysis, medical analysis... I'm sorry, I don't think I can read 70 pages of financial analysis or 200 pages of health, but you'll have them literally Monday or the first day you get back to work. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u228	Monday, we're at work, too. Rainov will come and get them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u229	Because I'm still at work. Let me also say one more thing, again as part of this morning's discussion about what the majority was like, what was the minority about public health tax was not part of the coalition agreement and the origin management programme was not recorded there. It's a bit like the Constitution because it's not listed there either. The Ministry of Health is the importer of this thing, its task is to seek understanding, support and majority first in the government and then in parliament. I hope we succeed, because our arguments are strong. Otherwise, in today's debate, let me just say the following: "The three of you with you who are asking this question, if we agree with this economic analysis, which you stand behind, which is not true, but which you stand behind. [[shows analysis]] , we confirm together a thesis that the effect of this tax on consumption has, which is the main thesis of opponents. Because if there wasn't, there wouldn't be any catastrophic views about how and what would happen. It is a separate question whether one of the big producers of sweet things, who said he was going to move out to produce elsewhere, is currently producing a Bulgarian brand in Romania, for example, and who, who, who and what scares him!? We confirm the thesis that this tax works and changes behavior. On the question of whether certain things can be harmful or not, it has been proven.................................................................................................. Please, Dr. Raynov, confirm to your colleagues the consumption, increasing the amount of trans fatty acids in your daily diet by 2% leads to an increase of 20% of the risk of you having a stroke, that is to paralyze one half of your body, Mr. Turnovalyski. Thank you. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u230	Next question...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u231	Excuse me, Mrs. Tsacheva. A ban on certain foods cannot be obtained, that is to say, you are about the even more extreme option of agreeing that these things are harmful, but you believe that the tax is not a sufficient measure and must be prohibited. I am inclined to say that this will not be possible because of the characteristics of Community European legislation. I agree with you to look for the best solution together.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u232	Next, a question of the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev concerning an agreement on donation of medicinal products from the Republic of Turkey to the Republic of Bulgaria. We're listening, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u233	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a result of incorrect planning and poor organization of the Ministry of Education, you have reached a situation of lack of vaccines necessary for the implementation of the mandatory vaccination calendar for 2015. In order to solve this problem you, Mr. Minister, decide to contact the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Turkey by asking them for the missing vaccines. I will not comment on this decision, although I think you have had different options for exiting this situation. Following the negotiations on the basis of your report, the Council of Ministers has reached Decision No 337 of 28 May authorising agreements between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Bulgaria on the medicinal products in question and in a series of written questions to you and Minister Goranov, I have tried to clarify the whole situation concerning these donations, as there are a number of questions in public and in society that are unanswered about them. On the basis of your written responses and on the basis of the agreements provided, I understand that in the first agreement, the Republic of Turkey donates to the Republic of Bulgaria a hundred thousand doses of combined five-component vaccine for children with the trade name An explicit provision has been included in the agreement which you have provided me with in the question, which says that: The donated vaccines will be delivered to the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria within one month of the date of signature and should be used for the implementation of the immunization calendar of the Republic of Bulgaria. I would like to point out that the hepatitis B vaccine in question is not registered anywhere in another Member State of the European Union and in our country, as it contains thiomersal [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In response to the written question I have asked you, "It is worth noting that the vaccine is not intended for the execution of the immunization calendar of the Republic of Bulgaria. So my questions to you are many, Mr. Moskov, but the first is: when are you telling the truth in the report to the Council of Ministers, which states as a requirement in the agreement itself that this vaccine be used for the immunization calendar, or in the written answer you provided me and you said that it will not be used for immunization calendars and will not be placed on Bulgarian citizens? And why was it at all necessary to import such a type of vaccine that could not be used?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u234	For a response Minister Moskov, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u235	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Valchev! Mrs. Tsacheva, I would ask you if I could wait a minute, because the debate is of high public importance...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u236	Close with so much delay in his question, the people's representative.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u237	I'd be very grateful. In detail, I clearly answer because I believe that the reason to ask the question are really concerns.. first to ensure the immunization calendar, second to whether the procedures have been followed. Agreements concluded In May, the Council of Ministers Decision No 373 of 28 May approved projects for donations agreements between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Bulgaria on the basis of ongoing negotiations. As a result of the decision of 16 June in Ankara, a donation agreement was concluded between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, according to which Turkey donated 100 000 vaccines to Bulgaria...................................................................................................................................................... A second agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey was signed on 7 September. According to the agreed Bulgaria undertakes to donate 5 million doses to the government of Turkey, respectively 250 thousand ampoules with 20 doses of TB vaccine known as BCJ. According to the legal opinion of the Directorate of Normal Regulation and Public Procurement and the two agreements shall enter into force from the day of signature. What is the type and volume of donated and obtained products? Under the first agreement, the medicinal products donated and received by the Republic of Turkey are: combined diphtheria vaccine, tetanus, acelular cocluse Second, a re-combined vaccine against viral hepatitis B under the trade name "Euvax B', including 100,000 doses with the corresponding batch number and fitness. Secondly, according to the donation agreement, the government of Bulgaria gives five million doses of TB vaccine, which is explicitly foreseen by the government of Turkey to be obliged to use the donated quantities of vaccine only for the maintenance of outpatient healthcare services in the Republic of Turkey. Part of the donation was realized on September 17th by delivering two million vaccines against tuberculosis in the Republic of Turkey and the remaining three million are to be delivered. When the procedure is concluded, the supplies of the remaining three million doses of tuberculosis vaccine will be further and duly informed. What are the authorisations issued under the Act on Medicinal Products by the Drug Executive Agency? The combined five-component vaccine has all regulatoryly required documents and certificates of quality and safety. I repeat: everyone! With exit No. IAL 28733 of 9 July, the Drug Executive Agency does not object to being admitted to the country under an agreement and to being used according to the rules of the World Health Organization. The medicinal product "Pentaxim" 0,5 ml. of the AME injection, supplied by the Republic of Turkey and certified under the WHO quality and safety certification scheme and the manufacturer's qualified person has certified that the vaccine has been produced and tested in accordance with the procedures specified in the Marketing Authorisation and that the active substance complies with the requirements of European. The holder of the marketing authorisation of the vaccine supplied by the Republic of Turkey is the Turkish branch of Sanofi Pastor. The manufacturer of the product formulated indeterminate Tetraxim is Sanofi Pastor. The formulated non-dissolved product is supplied by France to Turkey, where the final product is filled in pre-filled syringes and packaged by The component "Ektejic IB" is produced and released by "Sanofi Pastor" "France" and is delivered to Turkey as a final product. Once the component is Tetraxim is filled in syringes and delivered from France to Turkey in Mefar. The component is packed together with the fifth component and presented as the final product under the brand Pentaxim. The plant producing the final product "Méfar AS" has a contract under the license of.Sanofi Pasteurs is subject to regular trials by the same, as well as inspections by the regulatory authorities. The last audit of the Turkish plant by.Sanofi Pastor. France was carried out in July 2014, and according to a letter of representatives of..Sanofi Pastor......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For the hepatitis B recombined vaccine, Euvax Bs by letter from the IAL, the IAL has expressed an opinion that it is not about the authorisation of the import of a medicinal product for donation and the provisions of art. 161 and as a result of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. They have issued an opinion regarding the donated ones is not applicable to the drug law, as art. 286a specifically refers to the entities to which the conciliation regime is applicable, namely: the holder of the marketing authorisation, manufacturers, wholesalers and the Bulgarian Red Cross. According to the IAL's opinion, when the donor is the government of the Republic of Turkey, there are no grounds for coordination by the IAL in the implementation of the agreement by the Bulgarian government. The IAL points out that the next action is their competence, namely the placing on the market and use of the anti-hepatitis vaccine, with a view to complying with quality, effectiveness, safety requirements. Is it true that the donation is a vaccine "Euflovak Hip" which is not allowed for use in Bulgaria and the European Union? No, that's not true. Regarding the letter received from the Ministry of Health, Dr. Lyubomir Dimitrov, Governor of Bul Bio, concerning the possibility of importing such a five-component vaccine to satisfy our immunization calendar, is requested by the Ministry of Agriculture. The registration number is right here in the document I'm gonna leave you. The IAL answers that the vaccine is "Euflovak hip."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u238	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Colleagues, why don't you ask written questions with such detailed terminology, specifics? The minister has already answered for six minutes. It's a written question! It is clear that in three minutes there is no way that all this information in volume can be provided in detail and specifics, as the answer is undoubtedly required.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u239	I allow myself, Madam President, to violate the Rules of Procedure because it is important to me from the answer to this question and from the written answer that I have given to Mr. Boychev, once again to confirm to the Bulgarian citizens that this speculation is for lobbyist reasons that Bulgarian children are given by the country a vaccine which does not meet in any way any of the criteria of the European Union is simply not important. If I have to end it like...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u240	It's not true, you mean?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u241	In no way is it true, of course. This is the same vaccine that the Bulgarian children received when the Bulgarian representative of the company Sanofi took place at the auction. At the moment, we are taking a vaccine from the Turkish representativeship of the company Sanofi (Sanofi) made in the same way, meeting the same criteria, licensed in the same way. I have a lot more to say, but I'll obviously follow the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u242	I understand, but... Would you like to use a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u243	Thank you. You are right, Madam President, I have asked and the Minister has given me two written answers on this matter. They are uploaded to the page and I will ask anyone who has an interest in the topic to get acquainted with them in detail. The point to ask this question is because there is nothing more important than the health of Bulgarian children. This is the most important thing for every parent. You know that there have been a number of speculations, information in the public domain on this topic. It has come to a situation where it seems to me that this is one of the most guarded secrets in the Bulgarian state. That is why I am pleased, Minister, that you are finally here and answer from the parliamentary tribune. You know that even yesterday, a show by Valya Ahchieva was canceled by the program of the Bulgarian National Television, which deals with these issues. Unfortunately, I am not satisfied with the answer, as I believe that a number of questions remain unanswered. First, the time is very short for us to enter into conversations about the vaccine. You know very well that the allegations of inspections and so on concern only the use of the product on the territory of Turkey, and the Turkish producer who develops this vaccine does not have a European GMP and its products are not sold on the territory of the European Union. You yourself tell me in the answer you have provided me that the vaccine will not be used for the immunization calendar of the citizens of Bulgaria. I put aside the statement that is in the written reply, I quote: The vaccine is stored in storage and will be applied if necessary, and only to persons who are not subject to the immunization calendar of the Republic of Bulgaria. I cannot accept at all that a product that is not allowed to be used will not be placed on Bulgarian citizens, but if you see it, we can place it, in this case you are quoting the The questions I have are as follows. Have other commitments been made to the Turkish side? From the written answer I have, I do not get the impression that all the provisions of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine have been complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u244	A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u245	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again: all the requirements of the Law are met. This is written in detail in your answer. I understand, but I'm asking you for a second to leave politics and opposition to the issue because we had a conversation with you. No additional healthcare agreements with Turkey have been taken over! Let's just say that as a result of what we have done, I may have naively expected that I could hear that the government, the Ministry, has also done its job in the situation in which companies were asked not to tender for secured funding and the country's ability to buy at the price they offer for these vaccines, has actually ensured the immunization of children. Let me just say that now they've reconsidered their behavior, they've come to auction. On the 18th, i.e. today the shipments are being loaded on the already won positions for 4 and the 5-valent vaccine. On the 20th, when he comes here, we begin the reimmunization of the children at the age of six, after we have already guaranteed the immunization of the newborns. From my point of view, it's a job well done, and from your point of view, it's a problem. To say about this vaccine two more words because the answer says it and you know it, but it is really related to things that, from my point of view, concern national security, Mr. Boychev. About the amount of vaccine "Euvax" against Hep B we have a tender here and won. We have provided the vaccination against Hepatitis B for the needs of the immunization calendar. This vaccine, however, is not intended for the execution of the immunization calendar of the Republic of Bulgaria. Regarding the refugee crisis, we have sent a letter to: Mrs. Bachvarova, Chairman of the Interdepartmental Commission, Chairman of the State Agency for Refugees, Mr. Kantardzhiev, Director of the Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases and Chairman of the Expert Council on Immunoprophylaxis. The letters are intended to take anti-epidemic measures. The Ministry of Interior has received an answer that migratory pressure towards Europe remains significant at this time. According to the opinion, the host European countries are expected to face significant difficulties in financial security and medical care for the needy migrants. The Expert and Advisory Board on Immunoprophylaxis Supervision is expected to determine the age groups of the population, including persons with open production and the status of refugee or legal asylum, a scheme and a number of doses required for the donated vaccine,...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this regard, in order to protect national interests as well as to protect the lives of Bulgarian citizens and health, the Ministry of Health has provided for this reserve, which may be useful after prior authorisations by the Executive Agency for Medicines. We have secured the opportunity to take on possible refugee pressure. Common sense requires that it be said that this is not bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u246	Next is a question from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov about the activities of the Hospital - Shumen AD.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u247	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! A little retrospect check. Health care in the town of Shumen has traditions from the 19th century, the first hospital was established in 1837 for the needs of Turkish units there. Its creation marks the beginning of organized medical care on the Bulgarian lands, with the first aid building being specially built and meeting the then concepts and requirements of medical culture and practice. This building restored the sovereignty of the Bulgarian state in 1879 and created the Shumen State Hospital. To date, the hospital complex occupies an area of nearly 97 decares, with the main buildings being Surgical Block and Therapy Block, where the rooms are situated Skin and Venereal Diseases, Physiatry, Infectious, Children's Department, Hemodialysis, and in the therapeutic block II are the Rheumatological Department and Department of Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u248	You have a minute to ask your question. One minute ran out of historiography.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u249	Okay, I think I'll have enough. On 13 November 2015, a General Meeting of Shareholders was held where the capital distribution was in the following order: 60,79% state participation and 39,21% distributed between the ten municipalities in the district. This General Assembly has decided to change the Board of Directors and the Executive Director. Please answer me what are the financial results of the Hospital - Shumen AD for the period 2014 - 2015? With what motives did the representative of the Ministry of Health change the Board of Directors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u250	For an answer, Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u251	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ivanov! Just one word before that, Mr. Boychev, if I haven't been clear enough. I guarantee you, as a minister and not as a person, whether you respect me in my human capacity or not, that if you have doubts that you have expressed to me about various changes, for various additional arrangements are confirmed, I will resign. I declare it to you as Minister. I'm saying that's not true. Dear Mr. Ivanov, Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment is one of the 26 district hospitals with state and municipal participation in the country. The State contribution amounts to 63,06 per cent of the capital. The commercial company represented by the Minister of Health is a shareholder along with ten other shareholders. The figures specified by you for the amount of the State contribution are from 2010 respectively 39,21% for the consolidated contribution. In the volume of medical activity, the medical institution is located in the middle of the table of district hospitals at 14 o site. The last report submitted by the medical establishment is for the 9th month of 2015. The aggregated data show that compared to the 9 months of 2014 the number of patients passed decreased from 15 thousand. Five hundred to fifteen thousand. 300, with total revenue being less than 321 thousand. lv. Total costs increased by 190 thousand. lv. This led to a loss for the 9 months of 2015 of 113 thousand. BGN, with profit in the same period of 2014. Loss is not always a key criterion for assessing the hospital's activities, but in this case it is an indicator of a tendency towards deterioration. The Board of Directors shall not meet in full for months to take important decisions, the Executive Director shall circumvent decisions of the Council, shall not comply with decisions of the Council and shall not implement them. The audit by the Medical Audit Executive also identified administrative violations of the Executive Director as well as violations related to the reconciliation of his work with a civil contract in the hospital aid. By exercising the rights of the state as a majority owner of capital in medical institutions with state and municipal participation, the Minister of Health is obliged to be responsible for their management. Where there is a decrease in indicators, deficiencies and infringements found where the team principle and confidence between shareholders and the management body are violated, a change in management shall be undertaken. The intentions for a change to the Board of Directors, as well as the proposals for a new composition, were announced in due time and publicly as early as August. I hope that the new Board of Directors will act as a team and work to improve the level and quality of medical activities and hence the overall activities of the Hospital - Shumen AD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u252	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u253	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I was not convinced enough about your statement regarding the reasons you had to change the management of the hospital, moreover that, from the reference you gave to colleague Raynov earlier, I noticed that you were somewhat conflicting with the facts you presented here regarding the financial results of hospitals. For me personally, it became extremely interesting why they were changed and what your relationship with the previous leadership is because, as a matter of fact, to open a clamp, this leadership was appointed during the first GERB cabinet, by the Minister of the Government of Mr. Borisov and I do not understand this some reformist effort was the change of this leadership, or there were rumours here that hardly in the change of leadership of the Shumen Hospital was at stake health reform. And that's what I heard. I personally believe that one thing that works must not be removed and must not be changed. There was chaos at the hospital's work. Absolutely unwarranted, in my opinion, this shift was made. When one thing works and gives its results, I don't think there's a reason. And what you said contradicts the reference you gave to Mr. Raynov regarding overdue debts and financial results. Now you claim here that the hospital is almost bankrupt. I know it's not about bankruptcy, at least because I've been a city councilman for seven years and I've been constantly interested in what's going on in this hospital and how things are going. Moreover, the Ministry strongly refuses to increase the share of municipalities in the public limited liability company every year, given that it invests hundreds of thousands of levs in the form of equipment and thus enhances the influence of the Ministry as well. I really don't understand why you did this thing and if there were any other ulterior motives for what you just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u254	A hole? You won't use it. Thank you, Minister, for participating in the last parliamentary control this year. We move on to the questions and questions addressed by MPs to Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. First, Mr. Manol Genov will develop his question about the government's policy to deal with the delivery by municipalities for the development and adoption of common planning plans and how the inability to change the purpose of land in settlements without common planning will be overcome. Mr. Genov, we're waiting for you to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u255	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! My question is about the government's policy to deal with the backlog of municipalities for the development and adoption of common planning plans and how to overcome the inability to change the purpose. It has already been overcome, there have been legislative changes in this direction. It was our initiative. We wanted two years, the Ministry showed reason and offered three years, for which people would be grateful. We'll comment on that later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u256	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u257	Honourable President, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Genov, yes, we have very recently debated with you the situation with the requirements of the Law and the need that I believe is indisputable, every single settlement, every municipality in Bulgaria to have its own common development plan, which nevertheless regulates and enables predictability, transparency and forecastability for citizens, for business, to know what is the plan of each municipality for its development, for the development of the organized territory and what are the opportunities for the construction of certain sites on the territory of the respective municipality. The fact is that the problem is the common planning dates back 15 years and 15 years we see the inability to complete this process, namely all municipalities to have their common planning plans. Therefore, you know, we have applied in our previous mandate requirements for stricter measures, and one who has no common planning and has not conducted a procedure to work one out, so that he cannot make a change in purpose, in any way force a little with the staff and a little with the carrot municipalities to do them, because we see places of stubbornness, which is done on purpose, so that they can make a plan-out and thus reach the reconstruction of both the Black Sea coast and the mountain resorts in one way I would say quite large, sometimes and promiscuous way. Statistics to date show that out of 265 municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, only 11 municipalities have common spatial plans. Although in the previous budget, and in this year's budget we have foreseen, I would say, enough financial resources, even more than enough, as we see in the end of the year's accounts, we still have only 73 municipalities that have expressed their interest and we have funded their common planning plans and they are in the process of development. For 143 municipalities, we do not have funding because this is not requested. So I have repeatedly appealed through the Association of Municipalities to the mayors. Once again, we have sufficient resources in the Ministry's budget. This year we set aside 5 million, and now we're returning it because no one has expressed a desire to finance the common planning so that we can seal the amount. Nevertheless, we continue with this policy, we continue to work in this direction. We'll invite them back from January. For the 2016 budget, we have 4 million again planned. lv. and hopefully this time the activity. We have new, re-elected mayors with ambitious programmes and mandates, I hope they will apply to receive funding and support them in this process, next year, and we have put in the three-year budgetary framework for each year for another 5 million. We believe that, with the extended deadline for 2019 for their final completion and with the resource provided for by the Ministry, we can solve the problem and reach the so long-awaited, so necessary common planning plans. So our policy is clear, it is long-term and we will work actively with every mayor of the settlements so that this process is not postponed. You also asked me about changing the purpose of these plans, which are not ready, have not been started or completed. In the changes you adopted last week in the Law on Structure in the territory, we give flexibility and say precisely that if we see that this process is being extended too long, we are still giving the opportunity to define and approve such amendments so that we do not block the investment process and investment intentions in the territory of these municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u258	Two supplementary questions, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u259	Madam President, Madam Minister, it has become clear from your reply that there is a financial resource, money is provided, even last year from the budget there are 5 million left. BGN, which may remain for this year. You told me about carrot policy. The carrot has it on the part of municipalities that they don't want to do it because they want to make small bills in terms of remodeling. You said it yourself. But how many mayors have you imposed sanctions on? You, by law, have the right to impose sanctions. If I remember correctly, for those who had not started any activity until 26 May 2013, I think the highest penalty was about 10,000. lv. for mayor of the municipality, if I'm not mistaken. Are there such sanctions imposed? That's one of my questions. And my second question is: how are we going to overcome precisely this unwillingness of municipalities, and how are we going to force them to do these technical assignments so that this period, which has been set up in January 1, 2019, from optimistic to becoming real? And you do not need another mandate to enter the general plans of all municipalities in Bulgaria into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u260	Answer, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u261	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Genov, in response to the additional questions, yes, the law provides for the possibility of sanctions. For the time being, as I have already said, we are using the carrot we have given tolerance this year. The planned financial resource for the year is 5 million, from it we have only spent 2 million of it, unfortunately, we have not mastered 3 million. I think that we will be able to apply the staff in the sense of sanctions in a step from next year, although I think that we should support those mayors who are willing and in the process or those who are going to state their wish. As I said, we also have new mayors on the ground. Let's give them a chance in 2016 to give them a job. However, I believe that they will be motivated and will do so, and if we are in the situation we are in at the end of 2016, then we will have reason to seriously sanction them. You can be convinced of my firm will to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u262	For consideration, Mr. Genov. You're giving up. Thank you. Next is your second question, after you asked Minister Pavlova about the results of the MRB for achieving a complete and lasting recovery of a road section on the territory of the municipality of Lucky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u263	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! My question is: what results have been made at the Road Agency so far? I asked some time ago, I was told some deadlines. Then you assured me that the API prepared documents for the launch of a procedure under the Public Procurement Act for the selection of a contractor for research and design works to clarify the reasons for the destabilization process at km 5485. In addition, you stated that in order to achieve a complete and lasting recovery of the technical operational state of the road, the section was included in the program..Project-study and new construction......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Madam Minister, what are the specific results of the above mentioned by you of this tribune of the Ministry's intentions on this issue? Since the time of your response to this road no rehabilitation and repair activities have been carried out. This presents new landslide processes and the possibility of road accidents during the coming winter period. Are funds planned in 2016 to restore and strengthen this path? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u264	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u265	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Genov! Unfortunately, I can't give a very positive answer to what happened the last time you asked me. Yeah, you're right. Unfortunately, the situation with this road station is not good. We know about the landslide that's been activated and this 30-meter section that compromised the road as a result of the damaged support wall. As I answered you when you asked your question, the API started the procedure, but it was not successfully carried out for the selection of a contractor to do geological research activities to carry out emergency strengthening. However, in parallel to this, given the failed procedure, the API at least opened the new public procurement and it already includes not only emergency reinforcement, because, as you said, there we must think and resolve the issue more globally outside this 30-meter section on which the wall needs to be strengthened. We need to do a wider survey to cover most of the terrain. This is the public procurement, it includes more components, not only the aviary section, the other sections of the research and design, which I hope will happen within 2016 in the case of successful procurement. I can assure you that in the 2016 Emergency Programme at least this 30m section, at least this support wall will have to and will be able to be made because it is on the list of emergency stations. But unfortunately, I can't be that positive about the whole road, including the rest of the stretches. For the next year, we foresee the strengthening of the aviary section following the geological exploration activities to be carried out and the prescriptions for what exactly the strengthening should be. Apart from at least having a complete study and a complete project for the entire length of the road section, which will include South, Lucky to Zdravets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u266	The line, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u267	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Pavlova, I don't think this order's working. The people who live there were expecting it, as the winter period is extremely difficult.. big snow falls, for most of the winter months there is a thick snow cover, not always snow cleaning is done on time and as it should be. This, as I said earlier in the matter, creates prerequisites for road accidents. I want to tell you that there's a huge amount of ore going down this road. There are heavy trucks moving, lead zinc concentrate also takes this road, which reaches the Non-ferrous Metals Combine between Plovdiv and Asenovgrad. It is extremely important for maintaining the economy in the region. Now there is a rise in prices of non-ferrous metals, mining is developing. In fact, the road on which this concentrate, processed at the fleet factory in the town of Lucky, to pass through Asenovgrad and reach the Non-ferrous Metals Combine, is actually compromised... with extremely poor performance. I would like to remind you that there is a mountain area, there are many forests, productive, where timber is also extracted. The loading of the vehicles is the same. I hope that with the increase of the wine and the extra money that will come, the next time I ask you, you will promise me that it will be made in a more optimistic time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u268	A hole? I won't. Mrs. Dora Yankova's next question about the state of the road infrastructure in relation to the upcoming winter season. As it relates to its second question with a common answer, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Yankova's second question is about the preparation of the state road Asenovgrad "Chepelare for its normal operation during the upcoming winter season. You have the opportunity to develop your two questions within four minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u269	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The two issues are united and are related to road infrastructure and the upcoming winter season. The question was asked early enough and in the media appearances of the minister I was able to hear some of the answer. However, I believe that this answer, which I expect, Madam Minister, is also for the safety of the movement and for the work of the institutions. You coordinate and bear this responsibility to the citizens of Bulgaria so that the road infrastructure can be safe for the movement of the state roads specifically because I realize that the municipal infrastructure is the responsibility of the local authorities. I have a few concerns I'd like to share with you. The first one. Where you managed the second-class and third-class roads first of all to prepare for winter, there has been some progress. But there are things that, in a complex way, look at the work of the Road Infrastructure Agency and what they run on the ground, such as complete rehabilitation, maintenance and preparation of roads for winter, worry me. I will give a few examples: the marking is especially visible now the mists, along the second-class and third-class roads, according to the manner of the bosses of road management and according to the attitude towards the road companies, the signs themselves... My expectation still does not have a great snowfall, not to have media messages the winter found us unprepared again. I am very interested in whether the Road Infrastructure Agency is monitoring the companies that make winter maintenance, whether they have the necessary equipment or they take the contract, allocate the funds for profit, and hire machines that are from the time of the bad, the TTCs, the MTS or the old technique that breaks down and you need your people to fold locally and therefore not be able to be at the level of state responsibility that the state in your person has entrusted them to them. That's one of my worries. I want you to look at things from you down, and accordingly, holding them as state responsibility in your hands, for a complex approach to maintaining during the winter period. In particular, I will stop within one minute. In response in May, on May 26th, you informed me that the state road Asenovgrad will be completed. Then you told me it was a long saga. Yeah, it's a long saga. You then had the rank of Deputy Minister, with Minister then Plevneliev, in Hvoyna you started the road Asenovgrad-Chepelare on transit roads 5. The opportunity this time to be rehabilitated, to be renovated quickly, there must be complex reasons for both one and a second firm and slow activity during these four years. But what's my concern? You said I do not know, I think you have not used the past local elections, that on 18 October the road will be rehabilitated, on 18 October the tunnels will be made, on 18 October the two landslides and collapses... So far, only the Yugo Inn. And one more second, Madam President. I understand that the relations between the Agency and the designers in connection with the second landslide to Asenovgrad are cumbersome. It stays for next year. And it stopped the road Asenovgrad, Chepelare, caused problems in winter. I don't know what measures will be taken. Let's say the tunnels would wait. There my specific question is: is it included in the design of the road to the tunnel, because we all know what it means to have a tunnel accident and to have a corresponding emergency road, and this is the connection of the district town of Smolyan with Plovdiv and with the heart of the state. These are my questions. I ask them kindly, on behalf of the voters I represent, and as a representative of the people, and not only for Smolyan region, but so that we can actually at the level of responsibility that we all have in different form as voters, to have the opportunity to say to the citizens: We control the government, and it does its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u270	For a general answer to the two questions, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u271	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Yankova! Perhaps in summation I should say that I have ten questions asked in the form of two, but I am ready to respond comprehensively to each of them, of course. I will start with the more general... about the overall readiness and the overall organisation for winter maintenance, then specifically to the question you have asked about Asenovgrad... Chepelare. With regard to preparations for winter maintenance, as you know, winter mobilisation was introduced on November 1st and since then the requirements for mobilization companies have been introduced, for providing equipment, for providing materials, including in the high mountain regions, as is the region of Smolyan and Chepelare, the roads of the Republican Road Network are processed and treated daily because there temperatures are quite different from some other areas of the country. We held several meetings of the Interdepartmental Crisis Headquarters and made our own report of the Council of Ministers with its generalising body, namely the Minister of Interior, as an authority summarizing the actions of the police, the Road Agency and the Agency of Automobile Administration, as also involved in the process of organization movement, stopping vehicles and so on. What did the reference show then and to date? Maybe straight to today I'll tell. To date, from the required machines for the Republican Road Network, for that 20,000. km for which the Road Agency is responsible, the available machines are over 2,740, and the maximum required volume of machines is 3,250, which means that we have more than 85% of the machines available. However, there are still places where these machines are not refurbished. The machines are available, they are checked by their registration numbers as declared by the contractors companies, but these machines are used on sites. You know, December 2015 is the deadline for the use of the funds under the programmes with which we complete the programming period, so that this technique, time allows it in most of the settlements for work and finishing critical sites in order for Bulgaria not to lose the funds on them, so we have accepted the declarations from these performers who are performers of objects that they are ready for up to 24 hours after alarming on our side that for the designated settlement and municipality, district, we have evidence of increased amounts of precipitation, they have to refurbish these machines with paddles from construction equipment for winter maintenance, and we rely on the compromise that we are doing this year to them for this refueling of the remaining machines. Although we have not accepted this compromise, I would like to assure you here about regions such as Smolyan, such as Pamporovo, Borovets, Bansko and the high-mountain passes, we have not allowed such a compromise, of course. There all the necessary equipment and equipment is available because we are obliged to have support for the Republic's passageways and transit corridors. With regard to the analysis of sand, chemicals and other means used for cleaning, there I can also say that the required quantities of sand, salt and chemicals are in most places in quite good condition. You know, we're making a map of the traffic light principle for the areas we're checking for, but despite everything, given the projections we have, I can show you the map. [[shows the map]] where it's in green, in yellow, and you can see the red areas. The red areas are where the available materials are below 50% of what we require for the entire season. However, you know that with 50% we can provide the cleaning and maintenance of at least two months during the winter season of December and January, so the companies have been notified, they have provided us with their contracts for the delivery of these materials, and I hope that by the beginning of January we will be able to establish the availability of these required materials. If not, you know, at the end of the season we impose sanctions on whether sanctions for lack of machinery, whether, as you asked me, yes, some machines are not in good condition, no drivers or paddles are broken, no batteries, very often this happens, we have established such vehicles. In the meantime, according to the contracts, we've made claims to the companies, so we're going to have a debrief, of course, final for the season. This is about the readiness of the entire road network. I mean, we have a total of 26 contracts to maintain the network of Republican roads. Separately, we have six contracts for the highways. They are maintained, you know, on another principle with separate contracts, and 18 contracts for maintaining elastic fences, signs, horizontal markings that you asked me about, but against the limited budget of the API, they are assigned priority, starting from highways, through first-class roads, only then for second-class and third-class. That's why, really, you're right, not all third-class roads have the required marking all over the place. I think that's pretty much what I covered up with the issue of general readiness. With regard to the Asenovgrad road, Chepelare, as a way to access the Smolyan region, but also to the tourist resort in support of the development of tourism, yes, you are, indeed, on the date of your question, namely May of this year, we had opportunities to complete the road in October. You know, you're from this region, you know the performers, they're local firms. One of the companies went bankrupt. They were, you know, bought out shares from another firm. There are additional people involved in this project. All this, of course, extended the process of their work. To date, I can say that the project is 80% finished, since after the landslides, collapses and activities we have talked about with you about in the South Inn, the two other landslides, the need to repair tunnels, funds from the state budget we did not have at the Road Agency and we have therefore decided as an additional annex to assign them to this project with European Investment Bank funds under the Transit Roads Programme. And so we did. And as you rightly pointed out the one landslide is already fortified, the others are only fortified by emergency, ready 24-hour 24-hour 24-hour mode, on which to ensure the cleaning accordingly, if we have emerging situations. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I answer two questions in one answer to your attention, honourable Member of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u272	Colleague Svilenski, inform Mr. Ermenkov, slow down, do not monitor the development of parliamentary control properly today. Proceed, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u273	The contract, that was also the reason, the activities of the rehabilitation of the road itself ended. On the road pavement itself remains to be placed the marking and for this type of finishing activities, as you said in 2016, the deadline is until 30 June, to complete the repair, lining, insulation, lighting of the tunnels, and the completion of the two landslides, because we have a problem with the design. You're right about designing...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u274	Mr. Ermenkov will make a procedure in the manner of holding
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u275	We've put the design in place. By approving the project we will assign it, and the builder will complete the activities of strengthening these landslides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u276	Line, Mrs. Yankova. I hope you will be watching the time of the MPs now, not just the ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u277	Mrs. Chairman! Madam Minister, I wish the people you run wouldn't embarrass you. Five months between companies, between the Agency and between the Geo-protectives can't move folders! Because the great concern, my concern, and here is colleague Genov from Asenovgrad, God forbid, to activate the landslide after Asenovgrad, and we will again have to walk through Krichim, and there the road is also risky. We could meet with responsible factors of the state on this road that go hunting, but we better go on the road Asenovgrad. Secondly, which is a concern, and I am asked by the voters from Smolyan region: what is the work of the companies and the control of the Road Infrastructure Agency, when they are walking, and you are accompanying your visits, you are well-intentioned to the Smolyan constituency, so from Smolyan to Kardzhali, a wonderful marking, from Kardzhali to Haskovo, from Smolyan to Haskovo and Pazardzhik, I feel that the money is not enough only for the Smolyan region, for the second and third grade roads? There's no marking. Wintertime, this fog, this for us is security, for people is security. And in the next place, I know that the funds for disasters and accidents are with the Minister of Interior. I know you have to apply there. For five or six years on the state roads, where disaster and accidents have caused failure, erosion, compromises road infrastructure, becomes more expensive and it stands that way. Let's inventory all these problems on the state roads. We will support, as we wanted in this House, an increase in funds for the state roads for disasters and accidents to become more and this is to be strengthened. Or find an opportunity in a conversation with Minister Goranov of these 2 billion precisely, we will still support such an initiative, to go to strengthening. Now, if you have to go to Rudozem and Smilyan, since last year there has been a compromised huge landslide on an old road has been killed inwards, accordingly the road has been driven, and if the big trucks pass no accidents, which is extremely disturbing. All summer, nothing! These are all questions that people get annoyed about because what happens? You are first of all a minister of construction, of the town and of the development of Bulgaria. And they say: Bulgaria is developing, Bulgaria is modernizing, we are erosion the problems, there is failure, there are problems. Give a signal to the state that you have the same attitude. I'm not just talking about Smolyan region. Third grade roads in many places are problematic. Invent them and have the opportunity, we will support such a thing as an increase in funds, but to change these things too. Then there will be an equal attitude towards the regions. And another thing I would like to address to you is that you make the administration and companies not grow, but have each other's attitude, responsibility to the state. I was worried about what you said was missing a machine park for the winter. And I saw the red spots, which are mostly in mountain areas. Yeah, there could be sand in two months. I don't want you to rely on a good winter so it doesn't get sanded and economyed. Keep the government running so that people feel calm and secure. These issues are now being discussed both in the Rhodope region and in the country as a whole and you take responsibility for the winter state of the roads and the safety of the state, guarantee them from this platform that people will really calmly move and have an atmosphere, and have opportunities to travel safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-18.u278	A hole? You won't use it. The time for this parliamentary control is over. Before closing the last plenary session for this session, I wish for a bright Christmas and New Year's holidays! The next regular plenary session is on 13 January 2016 Wednesday 9:00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
