ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Before we continue with the second reading of the Preschool and School Education Bill, according to our agreement, I propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision on the basis of art. 45, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for holding an extraordinary plenary session on 29 September 2015 Tuesday, 11:00 to 18:00 on the following agenda: 1. A second vote on the Pre-school and School Education Bill continues with the texts that remain after today's plenary session in its legislative part. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 3. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement amending, supplementing and continuing the Agreement on Grants under the Programme of the European Union for the Prevention and Control of HIV/ AIDS in Bulgaria and between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. All the ratification laws below are with an importer of the Council of Ministers. 4. Draft Law on the ratification of the Annex to the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation and Support for the Secretariat of the South East European Police Cooperation Convention, signed on 12 October 2012 in Matrahaza, Hungary. 5. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice, the Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Swedish Ministry of Justice and the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy on the Implementation of the Project. 6. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Cleanliness of Atmospheric Air. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Under this bill, we're in a penal procedure. 7. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on financial assistance. 8. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion of income and profits from the transfer of property. 9. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion. Please, colleagues, let's vote. They voted 144 MPs: 125, against 2, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Procedure? Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure is in relation to the voted agenda on the consideration of the Public Procurement Act, as the Commission for Regional Development is scheduled for next Thursday. My suggestion is to either be Friday's first point, or stay for next week. It's a lot of municipalities. It is right for us to hear both the Association of Municipalities and the Regional Commission to rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u3	Mrs. Yankova, in the National Assembly there is a bill hanging from spring to amend and supplement the Public Procurement Act and a second new Public Procurement Act. I propose the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Public Procurement Act, as we have to vote on it technologically before we move on to the new Public Procurement Act. The fact that only your Commission has not been organized to examine it so far is not my problem. Let's continue with: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR PRESENTAL AND SCHOOL On the day yesterday, we got to page. 305. Article 3 is to be reported and voted on. 271 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u4	Article 271 s a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 271, para. 3 is added at the end of the sentence the text: Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 271, para. 3 the words "five years' shall be replaced by "three years' and "three years' shall be replaced by "three years'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 271, which shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union, shall be read in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u5	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal of BSP left Bulgaria is that inspections in kindergartens and schools should be within a period of three years and not within a period of five years as it is now. I cannot understand the logic of the importers, who, on the one hand, want to strengthen the role of the inspection bodies, and on the other hand, give a period of five years, which seems to me to me to say, with the changes that we adopted yesterday for the attestation, there should be some harmony in the texts. It'll work out so that there may be, excuse me, school principals who will never see an inspection in their schools. Right? Our proposal is that the inspection be within three years. This can only have a good effect on discipline in schools. Of course, those negative phenomena that were mentioned yesterday in some schools, which we were trying to overcome with the introduction of mandates of directors, there were opinions here that were expressed in this direction, to be compensated by enhanced inspector's control. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Assoc. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Our proposal can also be considered as editorial, as the text says that each kindergarten and every school is subject to a five-year check, but we want to add this to be read under Chapter Four, Section II of this Law. That is, it should be very clearly defined that such checks are carried out in all kindergartens and all schools, regardless of their property, of their status, i.e. both municipal, state and private schools and schools of religion to be subject to such verification. The text itself contains such a provision, but still remains a certain unspokenness. We therefore propose to clearly define the scope of these checks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u9	Thank you, dear Assoc. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 113 MPs: 31, against 16, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 19 against 70, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 271, which is supported by the Commission and becomes art. 273 in her report. They voted 112 MPs: 93, none, abstention 19. Article 273 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u10	Under art. 272 has a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. [[Relation from the National Representative Boyka Marinska.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u11	Will you withdraw the offer? Here you are, dear Mrs. Marinska.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u12	Mr. Chairman, I withdraw the proposal under art. 272.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u13	Yeah. Thank you, Mrs. Marinska.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u14	Article 272 "A proposal from the National Representative Boyka Marinska, which has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs: Art. 272, para. 1 acquires the following version: In order to carry out inspection at the Ministry of Education and Science, the National Inspectorate of Education shall be established; Alinea 3 acquires the following edit: The Director of the National Education Inspectorate shall be a civil servant and shall be appointed and released by the Minister of Education and Science. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 272, which becomes Art. 274: Art. 274. (1) The National Education Inspectorate shall be established to carry out the inspection as a legal person of budget support to the Council of Ministers with its seat in Sofia. (2) The National Education Inspectorate shall be managed and represented by a director who shall be an external inspection body for kindergartens and schools. (3) The Director of the National Education Inspectorate shall be a civil servant and shall be appointed and released by the Prime Minister. (4) In the exercise of its powers, the Director of the National Education Inspectorate shall issue orders. (5) The Director of the National Education Inspectorate shall: 1. develop, aprobate and improve criteria and indicators for inspection; 2. organize and conduct inspection of kindergartens and schools; 3. provide the assessment and guidance of the inspection to the Director of kindergarten or school and the Head of the relevant regional education management; 4. inform the relevant regional management of education where: (a) infringements of the regulations in the pre-school and school education system shall be detected in the course of inspection; (b) methodological support is required to implement the inspection guidelines; (c) the level of teaching and acquiring competences found by the students does not provide access to quality education at the school concerned and measures are required to improve the results; 5. provide the Minister of Education and Science and the Council of Ministers with an analysis of the quality of education in the inspected kindergartens and schools for a certain period, in a particular region or for the country; 6. publish on its official website summary information on assessments and guidance on inspection areas; 7. performs other functions defined in a regulatory act or entrusted by the Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u15	Statements? Here you go, Assoc. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the people! Our proposal differs from the idea of importers for the place of the National Education Inspectorate. We believe that he should be in the system of the Ministry of Education and Science and the arguments for this are the following. The idea of an independent inspectorate that controls schools and kindergartens in the system of pre-school and school education is commendable, but we fear that with the establishment of a national inspectorate, which is appointed by the Prime Minister and functions independently of the Ministry, is a kind of creation of a second Ministry of Education and Science. Next, we should note that the so formulated independent National Inspectorate has too little functional power to influence the work of the Ministry. Let's take a look at al. 5 to see that it can only advise, recommend, inform, transmit analyses and so on, but this does not have a certain binding force in relation to the regional managements of education and other structures of the Ministry. If this Inspectorate is in the Ministry's system and subordinate to the Minister, it will have a direct functional link with the other departments in the Ministry and, according to its reports, the Minister may take operational decisions, issue orders or take certain management actions. Next, this Inspectorate is not intended to check and control the Ministry and the Minister. It aims to inspect, to identify the work of the individual elements in the system of the individual schools, of the individual kindergartens. In this sense, strengthening this element of independence against the minister actually brings us into a division that hinders functional relations, links and operational management, and correcting the system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u17	Thank you, dear Assoc. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I would like to continue the arguments of my colleague Mihov and note to the GERB importers that the majority was fragile on this issue in the Commission, not to say insignificantly. Dear colleagues, so far many traditions that have existed for decades, I will say from centuries in Bulgarian education have been violated with poorly thought-out texts and we will see the results in the future. But now I would like to draw attention to something that has not been done before in the Bulgarian education.The process of inspection outside the Ministry and the establishment of a new institution National Inspectorate, which becomes a secondary authorising officer with a director appointed by the Prime Minister. By its nature and by the situation which the National Inspectorate will hold, it will be an institution parallel to the Ministry of Education. How do we explain the logic of creating this inspectorate? What are we after? Strengthening control, parallel control of the education system outside the Ministry of Education? But here I want to focus on something else. The subject of inspection will be the practical application of state educational standards by the Ministry of Education. So the Ministry of Education should apply state educational standards, the institution that will carry out the Inspection will be outside the system of the Ministry of Education. The current practice is the 10th century in the Bulgarian tradition of the Inspectorate to be within the Ministry. What is it that makes us proceed to such a significant change, I would like to ask? You can't go this way without arguments! There were almost no arguments in the Commission. Our position with colleague Mihov from the Patriotic Front is not a random common position. So...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u19	They're very common to you...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u20	No, we don't have much in common. Thanks for the line. There are a lot of differences. It's more like you have more in common. Here I want to challenge some of my colleagues who are importers to come out and justify this thing. If it is the question of going by vote, as many things have gone by before, without discussing it, let us. But subtracting and creating a separate institution National Inspectorate is a major change because it will practically change the entire system of governance in education, and I am not sure that it will be in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 96 MPs: 26, against 12, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 272, which is edited by the Commission and finds a place as art. 274 in her report. Vote art. 274 on the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: 73, against 10, abstention 13. Article 274 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u22	Under art. 273 has a proposal from MP Boyka Marinska and group. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u23	Withdrawing 273 and 274.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u24	The proposal has been withdrawn from Mrs. Marinska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u25	A proposal from the MP Elena Kotseva. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and group. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 273, para. 2 the words "Education Inspectorate" shall be replaced by the words "Education Inspectorate at the Ministry of Education." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 273, which becomes art. 275: Art. 275. (1) Each inspection shall be carried out by internal and external inspectors. (2) The internal inspectors shall be civil servants of the National Education Inspectorate and shall be appointed and released by the Director. (3) The external inspectors shall be designated for each specific inspection under conditions and in accordance with the rules of art. 279....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u26	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u27	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u28	Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u29	Okay...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u30	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u31	I would like to ask why only the Ministry of Education has to have an external inspectorate? Why don't we do it at the Department of Defense? There has to be an external inspectorate there even more. And at the same time, in the current Law, as this chapter, which we voted yesterday for quality management, we joked at the end of the parliamentary day, what happened to the acting Inspectorate, which is within the Ministry? Is it shutting down or is it still there? How are the functions distributed between the two inspectors? Don't you at least feel committed to registering it in the Law? What about regional education managements? Who's running them? Is this inspectorate running them, the external one we're creating, the regional inspectorate that's inside the Ministry, how are the functions distributed between the two inspectors? Excuse me, but legislative activity is not seed peeling and copying texts. This job... Or a tennis game, excuse me. The peeling of seeds is very daily. This work concerns the fate of tens, hundreds of thousands of people in the education system. Doesn't someone have to answer after that? It's no accident that I say this, I have no doubt how the vote will end, because the same way was the vote in the Education Committee and there was no one there who wanted to listen, possessed by the obsession for... you know... Hamurapi's laws that you didn't just write...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u32	Because all we listen to is bullshit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u33	My fellow Members, I would like to draw attention to this structure that you are creating...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u34	Let the Deputy Minister explain!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u35	Yes, if the Deputy Minister is here, let him explain, Mrs. Castreva. [[GERB lines.]] However, how are these two inspectors going to work together, the one remaining in the Ministry and the newly established secondary authorising officer? [[GERB lines.]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u36	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u37	That's two different things! Couldn't you understand that?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u38	Mrs. Damyanova, if you'd like to step into the stands and...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u39	Step into the stands. I'm not saying anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u40	Come out and explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u41	Step into the stands, there's a procedure, you can enter it if you want. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Do you have any lines? Here's a line for you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, I take this line because of the following. I sense that you feel compelled to do some logical exercises [[GRUNTING IN GERB]] at any moment when this procedurally is possible. Moreover, I am surprised that you have not even read the texts you are commenting on to ask at least the right questions. I, who am not a member of the Committee on Education, can explain in detail the difference and institutional interaction of the two structures. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u44	Explain, tell me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u45	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u46	I think the mind in the debate is shutting down...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u47	Don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u48	...it's shutting down...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u49	Mr. Mirchev, don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u50	...the abuse of procedural time. Mr. Replicator and Rulebreaker, come into the corner, I'll explain the difference in the interaction between management and control. [[Woman cheering from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? I won't. Hole, Mr. Jablyanov, come in. [[BSP LB.]] In addition, there are different types of tennis at table, on court and others.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u52	The others are also famous. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Kirilov, the fact that you started by not being a member of the Education Committee excuses you to some extent and I will not be extremely meticulous about your speech. You obviously understand the dialogue as a meeting in the corner, but this, I don't know, maybe the Faculty of Law at Sofia University has made some mistakes. [[GERB lines.]] We speak at every point of the Law, not for any other reason, but because we had our own bill, which I believe to this day is better. All the proposals we have made to the individual members of your bill are texts from the bill that we have tabled. They are an expression of another understanding of the education system in Bulgaria, of another philosophy. So maybe you think someone's thinking in the lineup. However, since it is about education, not about the army, and there, in military construction, it is not bad to think about it, when the platform pays attention to the weaknesses in the texts that have been tabled, to treat it positively. I think you're just gonna win. All the arguments that we make with regard to the Inspectorate, Mr. Kirilov, are discussed in the Commission perhaps at not one meeting. You take the protocols, you take the transcripts, you get to know each other and you participate fully in the meeting. So thank you for your wishes, and I'll try to limit my logical reasoning.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u53	The common logic.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u54	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u55	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u56	I will try to limit them, but you too, when you do legislative work, be diligent and diligent.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u57	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Are there any other statements? I won't. Would you like some more procedure? Speech or procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u58	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u59	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I make an official remark about the admission of honest lies, manipulations, demagogy on the left side of the hall and its main manifestation on this stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u61	You can do it to me, not to them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u62	I would say that the fact that they have not understood the texts and are returning to their law, imagine that they did not accept it in the Forty-second National Assembly...............................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u63	That's not the way to run it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u64	No, no, it's the way it is. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] How to Explain To These People [[beeping and screaming from BSP LB]] That, first of all...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u65	It's not the way to lead.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u66	...do not observe the Rules of the National Assembly, secondly, wash a guilty conscience, because one must protect the woman's projects next to him...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u67	I'll take your word for it, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u68	...and the other one should... [[The speaker continues to speak on off microphones. Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u69	Come on, come on! Thank you, Mrs. Dukova, I'll take a note of what you said.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u70	The National Inspectorate... [[The speaker continues to speak on off microphones. Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 107 MPs: 20, against 73, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 275 in its version of the Commission report. Vote 107 MPs: 90 against 15, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u72	Article 274. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 2: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 274, para. The National Education Inspectorate is replaced by the words "Education Inspectorate." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 274 is replaced by the following: 276: Art. 276. (1) An external inspector may be a person: 1. with higher education of the Master's degree; 2. with professional experience in an area corresponding to the inspection activity, not less than 5 years; 3. completed successful training at the National Education Inspectorate. (2) He shall not be able to carry out any activity as an external inspector who has a disciplinary penalty imposed under the Labour Code or under the Civil Service Officer Act for a period of one year prior to inspection. (3) The external inspectors shall carry out their activities following the conclusion of a contract with the Director of the National Education Inspectorate for each inspection.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u73	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs in the part where the Commission does not support it. They voted 106 MPs: 18, against 73, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We shall vote on the wording of art. 276 in its version of the Commission report. Vote 109 MPs: 93 against 14, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u74	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 275, which becomes art. 277. Article 276. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 276, which becomes Art. 278.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u75	Anblok, we are voting on Articles 275 and 276, which become Articles 277 and 278 respectively, on the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: 93 against 9, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u76	Under art. 277 has a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 277 the words "National Education Inspectorate" shall be replaced by the words "Education Inspectorate." Proposal by the MPs Buniamin Hassan and Cornelia Marinova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 277, which becomes Article 277, 279: Art. 279. The structure and functions of the National Inspectorate for Education, Rights and Obligations of the Inspectors shall be determined by rules adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u77	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 14 against 69, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 279 in its version of the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: for 89, against 8, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u78	"Chapters 16...... and The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 16th. Divide I................................................................................ The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u79	We are voting on the name of Chapter 16 Financial and Property and Section I Financial. Voted 103 MPs: 99, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u80	Under art. 278 has a proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The proposal under point (d) has been made. The Commission supports the proposal referred to in points (a) and (b) and (c). Proposal by the MP Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 278 the following changes shall be made: a) Alinea 1 acquires the following version: Art. 278. (1) Public pre-school and school education shall be financed by funds from the state budget, from the budgets of the municipalities, from national education programmes, from European funds and other sources. (b) In para. 3 t. 1-4 are replaced by t. 1-9: "1." maintenance of education and training activities for children and students; 2. the salaries of teachers, pedagogical specialists and other specialists in the system of folk education; 3. qualification and career growth of teachers and other specialists in the system of folk education; 4. means to support equal access of children and students: - breakfast and warm lunch meal; - scholarships; - social assistance; - access to museums and theatres; - study excursions; - information resources; - extracurricular activities; - free transport for students who move more than 2 km from home to the educational institution. 5. funds for the implementation of national education development programmes; 6. funds for national co-financing under European programmes; 7. means for the development of kindergartens, schools and extracurricular centers; 8. means of library information provision; 9. capital costs of kindergarten and school (costs, funds for current repairs, infrastructure projects). The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 278, which becomes art. 280: Art. 280. (1) The activities in the system of pre-school and school education shall be financed by funds from the state budget, the budgets of municipalities, European funds and programmes and other sources. (2) The State budget shall finance, in whole or in part, the activities which are subject to state policy. (3) The funds from the state budget shall be for: 1. maintenance of the education and training activities of children and students; 2. support equal access and support for personal development; 3. development of kindergartens, schools and centers for support for personal development; 4. implementation of national programmes for development of education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u81	Statements? Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Here are the important texts for funding education. In the proposal we have made, we again maintain our view of funding from the state of public school and preschool education. I note that, for the difference between the importer's proposal, given in the most general form, for the means of supporting equal access and support for personal development, we have identified the individual feathers to be included in these finances. Of course, the task of the budget is to determine by what criteria and how much money that will be. Note that we require that in these funds provide the necessary money for breakfast and lunch, access to museums and theater, here I use to make an additional proposal, which is missed for school trips, information resources, extracurricular activities. The other points must also include the salaries of teachers, pedagogical staff and other persons who serve school activities, library information and capital funds for kindergartens and schools, at least those for maintenance and current repairs, because the rest can be provided at different periods. Without such an additional record, the text proposed by the Commission is a wish that can be carried out but may not be carried out. I therefore propose that all these issues be resolved here, because these are the texts that define the framework for state funding of activities in school and pre-school education. Their support is the real proof that education will be put as a priority. In this way, it will also be shown that it will not be fully inserted into the procrastuse bed of delegated budgets, because if, for activities related to current education and personal assistance, this criterion is generally successful, in terms of the material activities of the buildings themselves, they cannot be placed in this section, because whether in a building they are studying 100 or 150 children, the costs for it are approximately the same. Pointing out the activities, cost lines and what must necessarily be taken into account as a funding criterion, we can make sure that the Law is the real guide that obliges the executive to comply with its capabilities, but always in accordance with the requirements of the mandatory activities, to provide for the necessary funding. These are the motives, and I think there are no arguments in essence not to accept them and to provide the directions on which the activities will be financed, including those for personal assistance to children and students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u83	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u84	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stoilov, let me disagree with your proposal, as what you are proposing is a detailed signature of all expenditures on the budget of a school is a return to a model that I think we have denied. A model in which the state tells what to do in a school and in many cases when these parameters are scheduled, there were zeros in front of them. Quite different is the philosophy of delegated budgets, which gives the Director the right to allocate the budget to the relevant activities. Of course, through national programmes, the state can and uses relevant support instruments. In addition, there are frank errors in your proposal, because in one of the positions you are referring to the cost of capital (costs, current costs) and so on, i.e. parameters that have nothing to do with the elements of budgetary parameters and budget financing. In my opinion, the text of the importer is extremely good. It enables directors to exercise their powers as it enables the State to make policy in the sector concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u85	Second line? Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u86	Mr. Stoilov, I am making a line for you, not for anything else, but to call you again, colleagues, before making such speeches, to read the entire chapter in this case. Because it's written in another philosophy. This article says what are the four pillars of funding in the system of pre-school and school education. Further, the following texts state what each pillar covers. And all of these things that you offer to students scholarships, transportation, eating, teaching aids, informational and library insurance are in the texts below. So this is not a retreat from politics, it is a construction of the spelling of the regulation and the signature of the norms in particular. This norm says what are the four pillars of funding. The next ones already sign the details that are contained, including in your proposal. I'm asking you very much to look at the texts further. I know you were not in the Commission when we discussed funding, but it is good to really get acquainted with the final texts adopted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u87	A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Tanev's line was more on the philosophy of delegated budgets, but it should be adjusted in many cases with specific indicators because blind application of the principle that the number of students determines the funds in a school is actually an antisocial solution that is against small and medium schools. This criterion should only be a starting point which is subject to many adjustments to protected schools, to different types of specializations, to those activities which I have listed. So what was old and new is not important, it is important what works in relation to the real conditions. And if such activities are signed and funds are not always provided against them, this is already a claim to the budgetary policy of the state and not so much to the construction of the criteria proposed. What Mrs Damyanova said is only partly true because I think in art. 283 contains some kind of decryption of what I suggest. But if you're sincere, then I'll make an addition to what's missing there, and see why you didn't accept them. Because the fact that the school is going to get some money, and then decide how to distribute it, is it better to distribute it for school trips than to feed the students? Isn't this the beginning we're offered by reformist positions? And, Mrs. Damyanova, there are not many of these particular lists of extracurricular education funds, sports activities...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u89	Follow the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u90	We will follow them because in your points they are summarised up to three or four positions and do not include everything that is stated in my proposal. You should have admitted that and said: yes, we have partly complied with this issue, but we are looking at much closer funding for the various activities that actually guarantee personal development and support equal access to school. We argued on these issues in the previous chapter when we talked about educational, in particular the functions of training, the social role of the school, which you were trying to push somewhere on the periphery and to say that this was not the school's job. This is the work of the state that conducts part of its social policy through the school and on the territory of the school. Here we have differences and they also show in the following texts. But I will probably give you the opportunity to really offer what you have not adopted in your text to see if the declaration of real access is just one call, or something that will actually make the executive work to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u91	Any other MPs for a statement? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I take the floor to support the proposal of Yanaki Stoilov and to express my concerns about art. 278, as the Commission proposes. Colleagues, look what we're recording. Really with this article we give the framework for how to behave the Ministry of Finance and how to really determine that share of the state budget for Bulgarian education. Yes, then everything else is in detail distributed, but it is distributed what the delegated budget is and how to be the philosophy of funding. And yet in the framework we say that the activities in the system of pre-school and school education are financed by the state budget, the budgets of municipalities and funds. Okay. In para. 2 We say: "In the case of funds from the budget, all or part of the budget is financed. We abdicate in para. 2 and we say: the state budget in state education policy could be entirely or partly. If we behave here as a national representation that we are on the side of Bulgarian education, we should harden the texts a little bit, they should be clearer and more explicit. We are immediately retreating and driving the Minister of Education, going, defending the budget for Bulgarian education, the Minister of Finance to say to him: "Well, we are implementing the Law. We must finance here in full or in part. We're taking a step back. Further on, in para. 3 We give four pillars, but in para. 2 we have abdicated in advance. On these four pillars we say all or part. And what Yanaki Stoilov and the group of MPs support this whole process is that we point out in the funds of the state budget as a policy which should be financed. And here I want to share with you: if we start from t. 1 to t. 9, in which Yanaki offers, we sharpen municipalities, colleagues. There's no money in the municipalities right now, except for the big ones. If we need to point out and make a debate about education, about the big schools, yes, there is money, little and in excess left, for the average hardly tied the two ends, and here are certain MPs from small municipalities who know that in order to have a school, the municipality has to take out the local taxes and fees of the people to teach the children. Why don't we make this regulation fairer? We are actually taking a step back now with a declarative situation in which we say: we do not hold firm to be on the side of education policy and to have finances to be categorically for Bulgarian education with the will of the national representation, but we say: as you choose, Minister of Finance. Therefore, I will support Yanaki Stoilov's proposal. Think about it. This makes it possible to seriously formulate those feathers on which there should be money from the state budget. I can get a few things out. Are snacks and hot lunches the state's policy? In preschool, what about upstairs? Is the information resources, is the funds for the European programmes money from the state budget? I have witnessed school principals say: We are looking for financial resources to apply for European projects. If this financial resource is not available, if the mayor is not well-meaning, if the state does not give, we stand aside. Therefore, honourable Members, look real and do not think the opposition proposes this. I call on you to vote and support. Today you're sending nine mayors to campaign. If you want to support them, support these feathers to actually have them. Thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u93	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The statement I would like to make in support of Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's proposal is with several additional arguments that came from this discussion. It is about the fact that the activities, as described in his proposal, have found their place in the further texts in this chapter, which not only is not true, I will illustrate it at the moment with a specific example. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 278, as proposed by the importer, para. 3, p. 4 funds are offered to implement national education development programmes. And this, as it is written, finds no further development! These national programmes are neither clear what number they are, nor clear how much time they are financed, how much time they are accepted, there is no clarity at all! We have one proposal on this issue in the following article, where we propose national education programmes to be approved by the National Assembly every year until 30 February. This has not found a place in the corresponding text, as well as everything written in detail in item. 4 of our proposal..................................................................................... 278. What is the extremely advanced modern funding approach that has been mentioned here? That money is given to the principle. The money follows the student. On this principle, some imaginary equality is being built between the individual students and everyone is dissatisfied, especially the schools, which have a smaller number of students and smaller opportunities of municipal budgets. Therefore, our logic I do not see why it should be only ours on top of all this, is that municipalities that have less money, municipalities that are struggling from the point of view of finding staff for education, have the opportunity and have guaranteed funding from the public budget, which will compensate for the inequalities that are objectively arising from the current way of funding! I doubt that someone who has been in contact with the professional circles related to the Bulgarian school has ignored or ignored the colleagues of the shortcomings of delegated budgets! Mr. Tanev, they have flaws! There's nothing but positive things! After all, when this Law is now being made and we have the experience of delegated budgets for several years, it is seen what is positive and what is negative, what is working and what is not working, let us reflect it in the text! We have done our best with our proposal under art. 278 to do this, nothing more. We propose, when it comes to a legislative process, that it be a little pό facing needs, not based on something that has become a dogma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zablyanov, I agree that every system, including funding, needs its own improvement. That is why the relevant texts are proposed, which say how the system of financing secondary education should be improved, and apart from the basic moment at which the funds are received at a school, the number of students and relevant regulations should be added components to improve quality. In fact, this is a serious change, this is something that must complement the delegated budget system so as to encourage schools to have added value for knowledge, as well as to help those who are behind in training their students. I do not agree with you that the proposal you are making is in the direction of protecting small schools. I am convinced, and you know that there are many small schools, such as under the small ones we understand with a smaller number of children who are wonderfully coping with delegated budgets. There are certainly large schools that also do not cope with delegated budgets. So whether it's a small school or a big school, it's no reason to believe that it can handle it or not. More importantly, however, whether we will give the Director, the school councils the opportunity to make their policy through the school budget, or we will want the state to very clearly sign the I'm afraid that this record that you are making is very much not enough for everything that should be in the school budget. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I barely looked at what you suggested as a record, and for example I couldn't find if the school could buy new desks or boards. Look carefully at the proposal you will see that there is no such thing. I didn't find it in any of your suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u97	The weather, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u98	Does that mean there will be no purchase of new desks and boards? Please, let us stick to what the importer has proposed and not accept these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u99	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Zablyanov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman... [[Comments from GERB: "President! "]] Mr. Tanev, thanks for the line. With these texts in the Law, we practically lay down the framework under which the Republican budget will be made in terms of education. What you sign up for inside will look like the budget years ahead. You know how it's done. I'm not gonna explain it to you, the Republican education budget. The parameters we have just talked about and explained, unfortunately, have not been reflected in the texts. I don't mind what you're saying, but there's no reflection! Look at the lyrics inside, see what's written down! Clearly, it is further developed, but the texts do not correspond to what we say. And one more thing about our proposal is what you set as an example in the end, of course they won't be left without desks and boards, written in capital expenditure. It's perfectly normal to record it there. Our understanding is this. By specifying the individual cost items, we want a guarantee of this type of expenditure at the school. Here is not found the balance between the assessment and the possibilities that the management of the school in the face of the director and what the state should ensure at national level. And yesterday we discussed here the selection of directors, in general the issue of the management staff at the school "It is clear that there should be another guarantee! It's true, in a place people know best what they need, but sometimes not everyone is well-intentioned, right, and mistakes are made. So the one who has to guarantee those costs is the higher level and in this case it is a guarantee from the Law! That's what we're talking about, otherwise we'll leave everything to the directors' conscience about how to spend the money.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u102	They voted 92 MPs: 19 against 54, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 280 in its version of the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 79, against 15, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u103	Article 279 supposed by MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal for para. 4 which is reflected in its systematic place in art. 219, para. 6. The Commission does not support the proposal under para. 2 and 3: By the beginning of the 2018 budget, the percentage of GDP allocated to the education sector should reach 5%. (3) The salary of the teachers and the equivalent to the position of Master is not less than 20% above the average salary for the country. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal for para. 4 which is reflected in its systematic place in art. 219, para. 6 The Commission does not support the proposal under para. Two and three. Alinei 2 and 3 are identical to the proposal of the MP Stanislav Stanilov, with one difference in para. 3. I'll only read it: The salary of the teachers and the equivalent to the position of Teacher corresponds to the importance of the profession and the salary is not less than 20% above the average salary of the country. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 279 words of activities are deleted and the word "public" is added after the words "public" is added to the system. A new para is being created. 2: The education budget cannot be lower than the last published average European percentage of GDP set for education in the Member States of the European Union. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 279, which becomes Art. 281.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u104	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u105	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! In this article of the Law, we make a proposal which we consider to be a practical confirmation of to what extent applications for priority of education are really meaningful or merely applications. We propose to create a new para. 2 in art. 279, which will ensure the financing of Bulgarian education in comparable proportions with funding in European countries. All other applications, which were made at the beginning of the discussion of this Bill, are, how can I say, naked, if there is no mechanism for approaching the system of Bulgarian education in financial terms, the funds allocated by the budget to the parameters of a European average level. We are not talking about the rich countries, we are talking about the mid-European level. Each year, the rate separate from the gross domestic product and recorded in the budget for the education system is the result of the residual rate of the principle of what remains. Since our country is guided by other priorities, I guess in a month or two, when we discuss the budget, here we will be thinking about how to feed migrants from the Middle and Middle East and Africa, and then the percentage of gross domestic product for education will have to reduce it again. We're not going to cut back on other activities, are we? As our priorities change, and often our state priorities are the result of the whims of world policy's fate, our proposal is as follows. No matter how many migrants come and how many hot spots will appear, how many camps we will have to build and maintain...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u106	You do not have such a proposal between first and second readings, Mr. Zablyanov. Comment on what you suggested.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u107	We have a proposal that the budget for education cannot be lower than the last published average European percentage of gross domestic product set for education in the Member States of the European Union. We have a concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u108	Thanks for him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u109	So thank you for your attention and for listening. Is education going to be a priority here, or are we just talking about it? [[GERB's line.]] Populism is to say it's a priority and take his money. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u110	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Tanev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u111	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, it is very easy to talk about more money for education, about percentages five or more, especially when you are in opposition. I will show you the data when the Bulgarian Socialist Party was in power [[Replication by National Representative Valeri Zablyanov]] how it relates to education and how it is measured in relation to what you are saying at the moment. I am convinced that there is no MP in this House who has no desire to give more money for education. I want to, you probably want to too. What has been done as a text, as a entry in the Law of the European Union, the money for each year to be no less and as a percentage, and as a nominal value from the previous year, is in itself a very serious achievement. I assure you that no budgetary system will have this privilege if this is accepted.. its funding will be protected compared to the previous year. This is because if you look at the latest data on funding education, you will see that, unfortunately, there has been a slight improvement, but far is not what it was. I am convinced that with the text that is written, we will improve these parameters every year, make a clear request, a clear guarantee that the system will be financed. In itself, if the rate of education to gross domestic product is maintained, this guarantees an increase. Please, we all want to, but let's be realistic. Let us not put forward all systems at all when talking about a percentage of gross domestic product, because tomorrow health care can say the same thing. What are we gonna say, we're not gonna put down 7 to 8%? Isn't that what we all want?! The text is precise, the text is very good and guarantees that the system will be funded and better every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u112	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u113	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tanev, I do not know how the financial situation of the system will improve, given that in the 2017 budget forecasts even decreases to 3.1%, it is currently 3.2% of GDP for education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u114	What if we don't vote on the law by then? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u115	I just don't see how it's going to improve, especially when we are already diverting funds from this insufficient budget for private structures. In other words, the state will be even less funded. You are right that other systems in the country may want to be bound to gross domestic product, but we all know that our country is in a demographic disaster. We are the fastest disappearing nation in Europe. At the same point in education, 23% of the students were dropped. If we want our country to be reborn in any way, the only way is to invest in education and through it, through the children who will go through this education, the country to start being competitive in the future so that it can be revived. Perhaps in the extreme demographic conditions in which we have fallen and in the dropout students of the school, it is not a bad idea that the budget for education should be bound to gross domestic product as the first priority of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u116	Who sold the kindergartens in Sofia?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u117	How would he know?! That's when he was in kindergarten. [[Arrival in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u118	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u119	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mirchev, we accept your speech as a misunderstanding of what funding is in the education system because numbers 3, 1, 3, 2 does not exist. If you mean only for secondary education, perhaps yes, but for general education levels are far higher. What you said about the demographic problem and its impact on funding, namely with the protection proposed in the Law. The money to increase both as a percentage and nominally, this is the guarantee that in the case of a declining number of children and the preservation of this funding model the money will not fall. So this guarantee has it, regardless of the negative trends. Please update your statistics and support the proposed project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u120	Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u121	Honorable Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Our proposal is identical to Prof. Devlin's proposal. Stanilov. It consists of three points. One of them, fortunately, was recognized and supported by colleagues from GERB. It found its application in the version of art. 219 for the receipt of 10 gross salaries from teachers in their retirement. The other two points, however, which concern very important questions about the system of pre-school and school education affecting its funding, remain unsupported. I'm pretty sure what the result will be, but I have to say why we're offering them. Firstly, this is the extremely important need to increase funds in the field of education. Many specialists spoke, many observers, and statistics show that Bulgaria is falling behind the average levels in the European Union of spending on education. That is why we propose that it be legally written down that, in a foreseeable period by 2018, we will reach the 5% of gross domestic product for education as a strategic move for the development of the whole country. Because there is hardly anyone in this room who doubts that only high and quality education is the way for the prosperity of Bulgaria. Next, we propose a legislative regulation of the amount of the teacher's salary, which cannot be less than 20% above the country's average gross wage indicated in statistics. This legislative provision will make the teacher's profession sustainable and prestigious and will be the main lever for attracting young people who will see in the position of the Bulgarian teacher the way for the Bulgarian teachership a stable and guaranteed legislative career. This is so important for our education against the backdrop of the ageing of teaching, against the background of the leak of young specialists out of the country from the most wanted items. We approach these issues with responsibility, with the need to take care of Bulgarian teachers, for their public recognition, for their material provision, for the stability of this profession, which we know has been an engine of Bulgarian prosperity and development since 200 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u122	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed and we are going to vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Stanislav Stanilov, which is identical with the proposal of Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, with the clarification that the editing of para. 3, but the contents are the same. We vote the unsupported proposals of Mr. Stanilov and Mr. Mihov and a group of MPs. They voted 92 MPs: 21, Against 9, abstention 62. The proposals have not been accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 12, against 45, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 279 by importer supported by the Commission, with a new numbering........................................................................................... 281 on the report. Vote 94 MPs: 77 against 13, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u123	Under art. 280 has a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal, which is: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 280, para. 1 the expression "On the basis of the number of children and students and of standards for a child and a student defined by an act of the Council of Ministers" is amended as follows: "On the basis of the number of children and students, the implementation of the school curriculum and the number of groups and classes in the school/child's garden or the center for support of personal development, as well as standards for a child and student established by an act of the Council of Ministers." A new para is being created. 3: The Advanced and Profiled Training in Music, Fine Arts and Choreography is funded by the state budget. Alinei 3-4 becomes 4-5 respectively; In para. The amount of additional funding shall be indexed annually with a coefficient corresponding to the increase of the funds according to art. 279/2002. A new para is being created. 6: Additional funding from the state budget is also provided for schools where between 60 and 100 students are trained under terms and conditions determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. Paragraphs 5 to 20 are respectively paragraphs 7 to 22. Al. 8 (new) at the end of the first sentence after the call Al. 9 (new) the last sentence to acquire the following version: The number of staff and the number of groups and classes may be components of the formulas. Al. 10 (new), c. 1 the number Al. 10 (new), c. 2 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 280 is created. 21: In the cases referred to in para. 20, p. 1 not less than 20 per cent of the excess of receipts over payments under the school or kindergarten budget shall be included as expenses for improving the material base. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 280 para. 2 is deleted and in art. 280 para. 5 words by para. The first paragraph is replaced by the following: "The second paragraph is replaced by the following: "The second paragraph is replaced by the following: "The second In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 280 is a new para. 4a and the other paragraphs shall be renumbered: (a) In addition to the funds referred to in para. 1 schools that are the only ones for the municipality concerned or have up to 300 students receive additional funds to support the training process. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 280 is a new para. 5a and the other paragraphs shall be renumbered: The minimum requirements for the formulas under para. 5, including the rules for the allocation of funds under them, shall be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Stephanie Mihailova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 280, which becomes art. 282: Art. 282. (1) The funds referred to in art. 280, para. 3, p. 1 shall be allocated among the budgets of the chief authorising officers with a budget financing state and municipal schools and kindergartens, based on the number of children and students and a standard for a child and a student determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. The standard determines the amount of state budget funds for a specific activity for a child or student for the relevant year. (2) The activities financed in whole or in part by the state budget by standard shall be determined by the state educational standard for the financing of the institutions. (3) The dimensions of the standards shall be determined according to: 1. the content of the activities of the education and training of children and students; 2. the type and specifics of the school or kindergarten and the form of training; 3. the professional direction of training; 4. objective geographical and demographic characteristics of the municipality affecting access to education. Madam President, in para. 4 there is one technical error. Besides the funds under para. ..to read..1..
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u124	Got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u125	Other than the funds referred to in para. 1 protected kindergartens and protected schools receive additional funding to support the training process. (5) Protected schools with students on average in a class between 10 and the average number of students in a class for schools financed according to the relevant standard of one student receive additional funding under para. 4 for the difference between the real and the average number of students in a class. The minimum amount of additional funding for these schools shall be determined by multiplying the difference between the actual and average number of students in the class by the relevant standard for one student. The specific terms and conditions for additional funding shall be determined by the act referred to in art. 54, para. 5. (6) The senior authorising officers with a budget shall allocate the funds received by standard for each activity under para. 2 between schools and kindergartens based on formulas for the relevant activity. Formulas include basic and additional components. (7) The formulas under para. 6 shall be validated by the chief authorising officers with a budget by 28 February of the current year after consultation with the directors of kindergartens and schools. The established formulas have been applied since the beginning of the budget year and cannot be changed until the end of the budget year. (8) The main components of each formula are the standard and number of children and students in kindergartens and schools for the relevant activity. The additional components of the formula may be objective geographical, demographic, infrastructure and other indicators determining differences in costs for a child or student or indicators reflecting national and municipal education policy. The number of staff and the number of groups and classes may not be components of the formulas. (9) The funds under para. 6 for each activity shall be allocated: 1. not less than 80 percent on the basis of the main components of the formulas; 2. the remaining up to 20 percent on the basis of additional components of the formula. (10) As part of the additional components of the formula for the activity concerned, a reserve for irregular costs of up to three percent of the funds for the activity concerned may be provided. The reserve funds not allocated as of 15 November of the current year shall be made available to schools and kindergartens under the relevant activity and shall be distributed in proportion to the number of children and students. (11) As part of the additional components of the formulae, funds of up to 0,5 percent shall be provided for the financing of logopedic cabinets. (12) As part of the formulas are validated and: 1. the conditions and arrangements for the allocation of funds by individual additional components included in the corresponding formula, including the reserve; 2. rules for changes in the distribution of funds between schools and kindergartens when changing the main components of the formula. (13) In cases of differences between the estimated number of children and students on the basis of which the funds under art. 280, para. 3, p. 1 With the State Budget Act for the year concerned and the data on the information system of the Ministry of Education and Science on 1 January of the current year, compensation changes are made to the respective budgets and budget of the Ministry of Education and Science for the amount of funds needed to address these differences. (14) When the estimated number of children and students is higher than the number of children and students in the information system until the changes under para. 13 is set aside as a reserve the difference from the funds formed according to the relevant standard. (15) Where the estimated number of children and students is lower than the number of children and students in the information system, the funds under the formula for the activity concerned shall be allocated, with the deficit allocated proportionately to the funds by formula until the changes under para. 13. (16) Changes in the allocation of funds by formula during the budget year resulting from changes in the number of children and students shall only be allowed in the following cases: 1. transfer of a child or student between institutions financed by the same senior authorising officer; 2. when, at the beginning of the school year, it is necessary to finance the larger number of children or students in certain institutions financed by the same senior authorising officer with a budget. (17) No formulas shall be established for activities where only one school or kindergarten or are provided for private schools or kindergartens. (18) As part of the additional components of the formula for the activity concerned, a conditional permanent cost supplement is mandatory. (19) The Council of Ministers shall determine: 1. the terms and procedures for obtaining the funds under para. 4; 2. the minimum amount of the supplement for conditional fixed costs under para. 18. (20) The Council of Ministers may approve additional requirements for formulas under para. 6 and rules for the allocation of funds under them, as well as additional requirements to be met by the systems of delegated budgets. (21) Apart from the funds under para. 6 the budgets of state and municipal schools and kindergartens applying a delegated budget system shall also include expenditure on the account of: 1. the excess found at the end of the previous year of the receipts over payments under the school or kindergarten budget; 2. the school's own income or kindergarten; 3. additional funding, outside the funds under art. 280, para. 3, provided at the expense of other funds under the budget of the funding body; 4. the funds owed to the school budget not transferred by the funding body at the end of the previous year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Are there any MPs who would like to speak? Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this may be the most important proposal that we have made with our fellow Members from the Patriotic Front, and it undoubtedly concerns a key issue for the financing of kindergartens and schools, the so-called "delegated budgets." A lot of words have been spoken about these delegated budgets and a sharp controversy has been held about these delegated budgets. It is widely believed that they should be adjusted to a certain extent because they create disproportions with the system of pre-school and school education, create conditions for over-concentration of children in some kindergartens and schools, which guarantees some high income, when over-loading the material base and, on the other hand, insufficient use of the capacity of other kindergartens and schools, and this is not about small settlements, but about large cities, including Sofia. That is why we are making several important proposals to correct delegated budgets. In the current regulation and as proposed in art. 280, delegated budgets are formed primarily on the basis of some basic components forming the formula for the formation of budgets, and these are two main components. One is the single state standard for supporting one student and the other is the number of children in one kindergarten and one school. They create 80% of the school's budget and the regulation provides that another 20% are the so-called additional components. We propose that the distribution of the relationship between the main and additional components be changed, with 60% being the main and 40% of the budget being formed by additional components. We believe that this is a reasonable correction of the existing mechanism of forming delegated budgets, which the people and society call "pak money." Next, we propose that the number of groups and classes should be predicted in the reporting of the main components. The importers and the Commission propose in para. Article 8 280 explicitly the number of staff and the number of groups and classes may not be components according to the formula. We believe that this actually damages those kindergartens and schools that have sufficient capacity, with sufficient material base, work with more staff, with more teachers, and in these circumstances create better conditions for raising, raising and training children and students, as they work with smaller groups and smaller classes in numbers. Let's imagine that if we have two schools with the same number of students, but differ in the number of staff and the number of classes, then where we have more students, the higher number of classes, the number of children in a class will be smaller. Each parent will prefer and say that it is better for his child to study in one class with fewer students, as the teacher has a greater opportunity to take the time, to devote efforts to individual work with the students. That is why we oppose this explicit provision in para. 8 that the number of staff and the number of groups and classes cannot be components in the formula. Next, we offer one additional funding from the state budget of those schools, which have a number of students between 60 and 100. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u128	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. There's a statement request. The debate will continue in the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 29 September, according to the decision we have just adopted. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 18 September to 24 September This Decision shall A question was received from the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov and Iskren Veselinov to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, concerning available documents related to the changes in the contracts for the purchase of the electricity produced by the power plants of Galabovo. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 2 October 2015. There has been an inquiry from the National Representative Ivan Stankov to Krasen Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sports, about opportunities for building material and technical sports bases to universities and providing funds for financing sports clubs to higher education institutions. The plenary sitting should be answered on 2 October 2015. A request was received from the National Representative Petar Slavov to Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism, on the policy of the Ministry of Tourism for management, development and promotion through tourist advertising of tourist sites of national importance on the territory of the Rhodopes. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 2 October 2015. A question was received from the National Representative Slavi Binev to Nikolay Nenchev, Minister of Defence, about a strategy for improving the security opportunities of the Bulgarian airspace. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 2 October 2015. Written answers to service: - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Vyara Tzerovska; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - from Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski; - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Boychev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin asking the MP Sultanka Petrova; - by the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Philip Popov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - by the Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev. Is there a minister who's ready to be in charge of control? Here you go, Professor. Tanev, we're expecting you! First to ask his question in today's Parliamentary Control is a common issue by the MPs Mariana Boyadjieva, Stoyan Mirchev and Cornelia Ninova about the problems in the Fund. The question is to Todor Tanev, Minister of Education and Science. Mrs. Boyadjieva will develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u129	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In an audit on the implementation of the Research Development Strategy, the Court of Auditors found that no payments were made and no completed stages of scientific projects agreed on in the Fund's competitions from 2008 onwards. Please inform us, Minister, when will the projects be paid out and why have no steps been taken so far to pay off the funds owed by the Fund? Will the Fund be able to announce a new competition so that the funds provided for this year will not be lost? Bulgarian scientists, and we are very worried that 18 million. BGN, defined as the Fund for Scientific Studies 2015 will be lost for Bulgarian science. Moreover, scientific projects that have not been paid out are being conducted and their authors are not allowed to apply in a new competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u130	Here you are, Mr. Tanev, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u131	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the House! I hold in my hands a long and formal answer that does not have four pages that will not be able to cover all the data you want. So I'll hand it over to you. Please understand that these are 15 years of accumulated problems.....................is the failed session........................ This is all a huge burden for the management of the Ministry and this National Assembly at the moment. Be assured that we are taking every precaution we can. All possible measures! In short, payments with old debts are envisaged and will be carried out; secondly, there will be a session this year, even though it is late. The specific reasons why it was late this year are in the inability of the Executive Board, which existed until recently, to deal with several important actions, the last of which was, for example, the guidelines for this year's competition session to be synchronized with the Ministry of Finance. I don't want to throw all the blame on the last staff, but he has also contributed to this agony that has had the "Science Research" so far. This fund is compromised in the face of the entire scientific community, there will always be doubts about it. In it there is an original sin that separates the very wrong fundamentals from applied research and that creates an opportunity to repeat the same, and close circles in the scientific circles, to win projects. All this is reflected in the Court of Auditors' report, which you mentioned on the Ministry's website. Finally, there is a new Executive Council of Scientists who, directly or indirectly, unlike the previous composition of the Executive Board, are not involved in any of these circles or communities in any way. Unfortunately, on the day on which he was scheduled to be held on Friday, this month, there was even a bomb threat not against the presidency, but against the building of Dondukov No 2, at the same hour, but the Council held its meeting in another building at the Council of Ministers, and elected a colleague of mine from Sofia University for Chairman. Last, everything we plan for our future actions, that will have a session and so on, is shared and developed in a series of meetings with the leadership of the Council of Rectors and the management of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. That is, there is a complete agreement behind it for the first time, which gives me reason to guarantee to you all that I have started and to be optimistic about the recovery of this Fund. There is only one thing left for us to decide whether the Fund will further develop as a State Agency, or will be the Executive Agency of the Ministry, as the main one. Of course, this will also lead to many other questions, but the main one is this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u132	Thank you, Professor. Tanev. Who's gonna make a line? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u133	Mr. Minister, I will start with what you have completed, that your actions are approved by the Rectors and by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. However, what I am about to tell you now, we know it from the scientists who requested a meeting with us, informed us what is happening at the Fund and sought help to ask you this question and to clarify the situation. You're referring to 15 years of growing problems. We are not asking you about these 15 years, but about the period during which you must legally manage, supervise and control the Fund. You acquitted yourself with the status of the Executive Board, only you, in a short period of time, have three times replaced this Executive Board. Which one of the three didn't do their job after you replaced them every other day and the people in this Executive Board learned about the change from the media, didn't even inform them in advance? There will be a session by the end of the year, you say, to absorb the funds for science. You know that's not possible. See scheduled session periods. See what date we are today to start this session, there is no way to complete it by the end of the year. Now a few facts. Minister, we have 18 million approved for science for 2015. There's no contest scheduled for 2015. That means that money won't make it. The outcome of the situation is two: either this money will redirect it to something else for the Ministry of Education and will not go for science, or at the last moment you will distribute it without a competition to your close friends. I ask in my line: which one are you going to do, because legally there is no session until the end of the year? And how is it that, while there is no activity, this Fund has no projects, no competitions, you spend about a million and a half on administrative expenses? The audit says I don't make them up. For example, for PR- BGN, which you pay immediately at the conclusion of the contract, without even the service being provided; or for consulting, accounting houses and so on lv.! To account for something that hasn't happened yet, there's no session, no orders, no action for science, but 180 grand for something that hasn't happened! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So this money you're spending right now is not gonna happen until the end of the year, and let the scientists know that that 18 million for 2015 won't go for science, they'll go for something else. And worse, again within the meaning of the law, since this year they don't master next year by law, colleagues, and we here will have to solve it, the money for science is reduced by between 10 and 20%. There's no way out. The Law also states that if he has not mastered them this year, the money is reduced next year. This is the situation in the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u134	One minute, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u135	We must agree that we need to develop science to boost the economy as well. This carelessness and this irresponsibility do not understand it and we strongly condemn it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u136	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Minister Tanev, please come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u137	Mrs. Ninova, I don't have any firms and I've never had anyone close to me who'll do anything. That's one of the allegations you seem to have been suggested for. The same way I drank my coffee with the Rector of UniBIT. I've been to a lot of universities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u138	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u139	No. You didn't say it, but they both have two adjacent sentences that repeat themselves all the time. I would like to say that for the way this 18 million is spent, that is exactly where the consent is. For example, we have to pay for old projects, where to get the money; secondly, we have to pay off universities, to which in the so-called DNCs, nothing is given, and they are in huge loss. This is Sofia, Technical University and UNWE.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u140	Pay them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u141	That's right, we have to do this. We have other payments for 700 projects that were from the 2014 session. This should also be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u142	When?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u143	At the moment the so-called directions are finally ready and rules are being made on how to proceed the session because the previous rules were not working. That's why I needed the real cast. You're right that the cast was replaced. Not three times, there was a correction in the last set. It's the only one. I really changed the composition because the previous one was one of both sides of Hristov, the manager, on one side, and the other side was represented, you know by whom. I can't leave the Executive Council, which is a country of old disputes. That's what I did. I may be late, but I'm not late, so there won't be a session. There will be money for this session. We can give it up next year. [[The President signals that time has expired. Replies from BSP LB.]] This year we'll pay off what we have to pay off. As of this year, the session starts with a delay and is likely to be given with money from next year's budget. That's generally done so far. We don't have as much opportunity to deal with these tasks as old payments for 2014 and the new session. I'm making the most secure decision possible, Mrs. Ninova, believe me! By no means, in any form will I do it on, what is it called there in the dark, and without everything being exposed. I will keep you personally aware of these things that are made as decisions, and everything will also appear on the website of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u144	Thank you, sir. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u145	And one more thing. For that... I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u146	Thank you for your participation, Minister, in today's parliamentary control. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria "The Vice-President of the group Atanas Merdjanov. You have the floor, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u147	DECLARATION of the Parliamentary Group BSP left Bulgaria Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Yesterday something unacceptable happened. The whole Bulgarian society was facing claws and under stress because of the incompetent, incomprehensible and mixed statements of the Bulgarian authorities. At a time when the whole of Europe is shaken by refugee problems, when our fellow citizens are rightly worried, the Bulgarian government behaves inadequately and is about to cause panic. And there's nothing more dangerous than panic in a time of crisis. Because Bulgaria is facing a refugee crisis and we from BSP left Bulgaria have warned about this since the beginning of the year. The President of the party Mihail Mikov in August, in a letter to the President of the National Assembly, requested an extraordinary convening of the National Assembly on issues of refugees and sewerage. We've been denied! Dozens of times, we have publicly addressed the President with a request and an insistence to convene the Advisory Council on National Security and to come up with a clear, national position for all parties to defend together and united. The President told us arrogantly that such a Council had already taken place, notice, in 2013. We have already had a position on the issue. If we had a position, why just a month ago the responsible factors from Boyko Borisov to Mrs. Bachvarova in Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva claimed that it was not scary; Bulgaria is an island of stability. On 25 August, after a special meeting with the Prime Minister, the Interior Minister triumphantly announced: "There is no risk of a refugee apocalypse. A month later Borisov said that there is a danger in our country that millions will come. Millions! These are two examples of absolutely irresponsible behavior by those who are called to lead us through the crisis. Neither the denial and the point of reference for..... nor the straining of tensions with a threat to millions of refugees is dignified. It would be dignified to examine the situation in cold blood, to present it to Bulgarian citizens and European partners and to clearly explain what our country is planning to do. What do we think it is? We must argue that: First, Bulgaria can and will take on a specific number of refugees for a certain period of time. Second, the refugees beyond the specified number will not be allowed. Third, the Bulgarian society should not worry about its domestic, security and culture, because the state ensures that the number, accommodation and integration of refugees will be in line with the realities in Bulgaria and with the difficulties of ordinary Bulgarian citizens. Fourth, there will be no tolerance for xenophobic and racist acts, nor for non-compliance with the country's laws. The 5th border will be guarded so that Bulgaria can control the flow of foreigners with a view to ensuring compliance with the above principles. All of this has been written in a special position of the National Council of BSP since December 2013. When we took that position, we were at the station. Today we are in opposition, but we do not change our opinion because we understand that the problem is more important than the current management format. It is high time for you today's majority to understand it! BSP left Bulgaria is ready to assist in developing, adopting and defending a national responsible policy. But BSP left Bulgaria strongly opposes the understanding that someone's great superiors will solve the problems for us. We've seen the attitude of these superiors. Angela Merkel only learned yesterday that Bulgaria borders Turkey and defines us as a hotspot. So in two weeks we have become from the heart of stability to the hot spot. Was Borisov asked for this status or did not understand. And it doesn't matter anymore. The Bulgarian Parliament and society have grown accustomed to learning these details from abroad. The Pentagon tells us how many tanks are in our territory, and Merkel tells us how hot we are. That's unacceptable. Do we have a government or not? While we're wondering five or six will be prosecutors at the Supreme Judicial Council and forging historical compromises. Won't we once again become victims of History?! Understand, this is not about anything less than processes that can change Bulgaria and Europe for decades to come. No need to panic, no time to wander, no excuses for inadequacy. More than ever, Bulgaria needs a single position. You are talking about consensus on the road and on the road, and you reject our call for understanding on the most essential question of our time. With this declaration BSP left Bulgaria again repeats its requirements from months ago to call the Advisory Council. Mr. Chairman! Just in the paperwork on the grounds of art. 86 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 85, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly submitted a draft decision of the National Assembly to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Advisory Council for National Security and to examine the policy of the Republic of Bulgaria against the mass migration of refugees and immigrants across the borders of the European Union and Bulgaria with reasons for it. With the implementation of the adopted position, we hope that the Prime Minister will be personally burdened, not visporemiers. Carry out these demands of ours and you can count on our support. Throw them away and you will be responsible, too heavy for the loose construction of your multi-angle coalition. [[Applause from BSP left Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u148	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. Any other affidavits? I won't. We continue with the questions to Minister Bozidar Lukarski, Minister of Economy, who will answer the first question from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov on bilateral foreign economic relations with Greece. Here you are, dear Mr. Belemezov, for a statement of the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u149	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since 2010, there has been a serious fiscal and business crisis in Greece, which is a prerequisite still smoldering, for the state to declare state bankruptcy. The inability to effectively manage the crisis in our southern neighbour arises mainly from several key factors that are in the following order. The Governments of the Hellenic Republic did not properly export data on the actual financial and economic situation of the State during different previous periods. Secondly, the Greek economy, like many other economies around the world, has been directly bound and has been directly involved in the European and global financial crisis, which has started very strongly since 2008. Thirdly, there was a poor structure of the Greek state budget. By "bad structure" I mean poor structural configuration and not balanced state budget, high annual deficit and annual failure of revenue. All this in a way made Greece an unreliable European partner and this inevitably affected the foreign trade relations between Bulgaria and Greece. On the other hand, Greece has failed to create and maintain a favorable business and investment climate for local entrepreneurs, many of whom are already actively seeking appropriate economic zones to re-locat their business, such as productions, services and others. In this regard, my question, Mr. Minister, is as follows: what are the main analyses of the Ministry of Economy concerning the prospects and opportunities for bilateral foreign economic relations between Bulgaria and Greece, on the one hand, and, on the other, is there a specific strategy the Ministry of Economy for attracting Greek business in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Minister Lukarski, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u151	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Belemezov, according to the analyses at the Ministry of Economy regarding the situation in Greece and the prospects for bilateral foreign economic relations at the moment the situation is as follows. With regard to trade, undoubtedly the financial crisis in Greece and the related difficulties faced by Greek companies create prerequisites for a reduction in trade. However, for the half-year data reported by statistics are positive. In January 2015 our exports to Greece showed a positive trend and an increase of 9.8%. In absolute terms, exports for the six months of 2015 exceed 744 million. EUR, at 677 million EUR for the same period of 2014. Imports, in turn, still increased by 0.4% and was 606 million. Euros. We hope that as a result of the agreements reached by the Greek Government with creditors and the entire package of arrangements will gradually come to a relative stabilisation of the country's economy and overcome the difficulties faced by Greek companies and small and medium-sized enterprises. However, in view of the serious situation in Greece, the possibility of a detention, even a decline, of our trade with Greece should not be excluded during this and next year. A positive impact will also have the Greek government's refusal to introduce the so-called source tax of 26% on Greek companies' transactions in companies from countries with lower corporate tax, unlike the Greek tax of 50% or more. On this issue, the Bulgarian government took strong action and referred to the European Commission, as a result of the opinion of the European Commission, the Greek side gave up the application of the tax. Regarding the attraction of foreign direct investments in Bulgaria, the strategy of the Ministry of Economy is essentially no different from that applied to date. Greece is not a global investor and almost all outgoing investments are aimed at the countries in the region of Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia and Macedonia. In view of the crisis situation in Greece and the need for significant in scope and volume of reforms, an increase in the number of Greek companies that will transfer their activities to Bulgaria can be expected. Historically, after 2009, there has been a significant increase in Greek companies registered in Bulgaria over 9,000, and this is due to the introduced corporate tax of 10% in Bulgaria. In conclusion, it can be noted that Greek companies, probably mainly small and medium-sized ones, will seek opportunities to transfer their activities to more tax-friendly destinations, especially Bulgaria. According to unofficial data of the Greek Business Council in Bulgaria there is a serious trend for moving not only the activities of Greek companies in our country, but also the transfer of financial services through banks in Bulgaria. More data will accumulate in the coming months and a more precise analysis will be possible. To a large extent, the development of the situation in Greece will be decisive for this trend in relation to the recent elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u152	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Belemezov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u153	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Mr. Minister, thank you for your input, they are in precise statistical order. I am sincerely encouraged that there is also a positive trend in foreign trade relations with Greece. However, I often try to put the state in economic order and compare it with the business in Bulgaria. The important things for the business in Bulgaria are to work successfully, create jobs, pay regularly obligations to suppliers and counterparties, pay salaries to their employees. In this direction the Bulgarian business is extremely flexible, very often in times more flexible than the state in economic terms. In front of such a trend the Bulgarian business would have managed much more successfully to look for an option and expand its market share and its presence. Very often the measures taken by the Bulgarian business are extremely aggressive. However, it seems to me that this thing is missing as a concept at state level, directly in the Ministry of Economy. Although there are various signals that date back at least a year, two, three in this direction that large parts of the Bulgarian business are interested in transferring their activities, to predict their future investments in another direction other than Greece, I think that at present the Bulgarian government is not taking adequate measures for this process. In other words, the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian state fail to advertise themselves well as a reliable investment destination, as by the way, happened in Bulgarian tourism over the last few years.. you know that neighbouring countries, such as Greece and Turkey, are extremely well advertising their tourist services. I expect and hope that the Bulgarian state will take a quality strategy, backed up with a new reliable concept of how it should proceed and react under these established market conditions. Because these market conditions are, in my opinion, a good enough niche where we can attract foreign investors, either from Greece, even though it is not a global investor, and in regions, especially in frontiers, to have the opportunity to open new jobs. In this way, employment on the ground and the fiscal framework on the global level will be improved extremely much. My appeal to you is to make a concept by which we can better advertise our country and look for the Greek business in Bulgaria pro-actively and not hope that this will happen by itself. I think it's a complete utopia.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Here's your coat, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u155	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Belemezov, I take your appeal for advertising, although it is very much about the portfolio that I am not responsible for. But with regard to the favorable and attractive financial destination in Bulgaria, I will tell you only one number for the first half of 2015 we have direct foreign investments with 41.5 million. euros more than during the same period last year. I think this is a sufficient indicator of how auspicious and attractive investment destination and Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u156	Thank you, dear Minister. The second question is from the MPs Dimitar Dubov and Manol Genov on the actions taken by the Ministry of Economy to restore the work of the Ministry of Economy and the City of Sopot, following incidents. Here you are, Mr. Dubov, to present the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u157	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our current question concerning the restoration of the normal working process in the Ministry of Education.. Sopot is waiting for its turn for more than two months. Nevertheless, he has not lost his currentity today. Half a year after the explosions at the site in the village of Iganovo on 21 March 2015 and 14 April 2015, the normal working rhythm has not yet been restored. Tensions continue among workers and trade unions due to the inability to comply with contracts signed for 2014. Following the change of the Board of Directors in January and now in September, a centralised management by the Chairman of the Board of Directors was transferred without full responsibility. This burdened the company's operating activities, delayed payment with suppliers, and hence non-rhythmicity in supply and finally overloading workers with reduced time limits for the execution of orders. The adoption of the new management structure with a commercial proxy has proved ineffective and has finally changed the responsibility of the question: who is responsible? After the explosions the management did not come up with a program how to compensate the lost three months in which the plant in Iganovo did not work. Until now, the financing of the company is at the expense of advances under contracts. The question is whether the management will be able to finalise these contracts by the end of December. Nowhere does anyone mention that the company owes more than 1 million for energy and water. 200,000. lv. Dear Minister, my question to you is this: how will the delay in the contracts be overcome and your promised 83 million will be achieved. BGN, provided that at full capacity in 2014 production was produced for 85 million. lv.? How contracts will be implemented for 216 million. BGN, as promised by you, in the absence of sufficient technical and human resources?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Dubov. Minister Lukarski, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Dubov, Dear Mr. Genov! From the questions you are asking me, your doubt about the ability of the largest Bulgarian arms company to successfully meet its commitments to the contracts concluded after the incidents in March and April this year at the site in the village of Iganovo. In this sense, I would like to assure you that timely adequate measures have been taken by the Ministry of Economics and the management of the Ministry of Economy to restore normal work in the company and to carry out orders successfully in strict compliance with the requirements for safe operation. According to our instructions, the management of the company adopted and worked on the implementation of a recovery programme after the incidents. Maximum mobilisation and high rhythm of production processes is envisaged. In addition to finalising cleaning activities on the territory of the epicenter of incidents, the programme provides for measures to resume and duplicate the lost production lines, machinery and equipment. In particular, as a result, I inform you of the following. At present, the work and technology process of Iganovo site has been completely restored. This has been the case since the end of July this year. All activities carried out during the previous years shall also be carried out at the moment. In some of the divisions work on two and three shifts. A significant contribution to the recovery of the production process has been made by the current production director, who is currently the CEO. Indeed, it was not easy to overcome the delays in the production program if more than three months were not possible to work on the site in Iganovo. At the same time, the performance of this task is not impossible, especially after adequate measures have been taken. In the period after the incidents in which the installation plant at the site in Iganovo did not carry out equipment and installation, the employees and workers of the installation plant were redirected to a mechanical plant and participated in the production of mechanical details. The production during this period of mechanical production is sufficient to produce the final production in a volume of 83 million. lv. The results of the activity of the enterprise for the months of July and August give confidence that this volume will be reached by the end of the year. The management of the company provided us with a production programme for 2016 in July after the restoration of Iganovo. It was drawn up on the basis of contracts signed in 2014 and 2015, submitted requests for offers by partner companies and the estimated factual possibilities for production, installation and realization. The same provides for revenues of around 216 million. lv. It is true that in the last 15 years the IMP did not realise this volume, but there were no such contracts during that period. The program is tense, but it's viable. In order to secure it, there is a selection and appointment of additional staff as the number of staff increases monthly by about 40 to 50 people. This trend will remain until the end of the present year and next year in parallel with the implementation of measures to improve the organisation and rhythmicity of the production process. At the same time, the renovation of two existing workshops has started, which have been closed for the past 25 years. In these two workshops in the near two months will be installed and duplicated new production facilities, which will increase the capacity and productivity of the installation plant at the site in Iganovo. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u160	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Genov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u161	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, you have expressed your opinion that we have doubts about the implementation of the tasks imposed by the commercial company VMZ Sopot. Our doubts aren't random. The Bulgarian Socialist Party, even in opposition, even when it was in government, has always had a consistent position in terms of the development of Sopot, as a state enterprise, which is extremely important in the defence production of the Republic of Bulgaria. Where do our doubts come from? The company's liabilities were reduced by 30 million over the period 2013-2014. lv. 450 workers were assigned more. For the first time in seven years in 2014 the company came to profit. You yourself have confirmed the stakes as a plan for this year 75 million. lv. production and its implementation in 2014. I would like to point out that the average gross salary increased by more than 20% for the period June 2013 - 31 December 2014. Disturbing, extremely disturbing, however, are several facts. The big delay in rebuilding the plant's exit. This is the site in Iganovo, where the finished production comes out and the financial flows of the company are formed. As you yourself have confirmed, for a number of reasons this was delayed by about three months. I don't think overstraining the collective, rerouting the assembly and assembly plants in the mechanical plants will be enough to compensate for that. I mean something else. Our biggest concerns come from the promiscuous construction in the management of the plant, where you measure your forces with the political party GERB and with the MP Metodi Andreyev is not here, who himself asked for your resignation yesterday. The role here of your Vice-President, the former mayor of the city is very small. Karlovo Dr. Emil Kabayvanov. These are our biggest concerns for not creating the necessary organization to implement the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Minister Lukarski, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u163	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Genov, Mr. Dubov! For the organization I will add to you to gain an idea after restoring the work in Iganovo that in the two last months of July and August VMZ produced a total production of nearly 39.5 million. lv. If we add to it the sum of the first half of the year, the figure exceeds 77 million. lv. You can see that since the work has been restored, work is being done at an increased rate. We are fulfilling the promises, the arrangements made to both the entities and, as you said, the production that is being taken to the exit in Iganovo. With regard to personnel policy, I will take the necessary measures to actually end the shifts once and for all. With regard to the estimates of the management of the company, we continue to argue and I am sure, because I have also signed with the companies the contracting entities to postpone that we will be able to fit within the time limits that we have assumed under the contracts for all types of production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u164	Thank you, Minister Lukarski. There is a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov about the Strategy for normalizing fuel prices and their impact on the Bulgarian economy. Mr. Belemezov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u165	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the last few years, we have seen a paradox where the least developed economy in the European Union, such as that of Bulgaria, is in a state of permanent trend in the formation of a logically high fuel prices. Statistics show that in recent years, the average price, for example, of diesel, is higher than most European Member States of the European Union, with clear differences even in terms of the most developed economies such as Austria, Germany, France and others. Against the background of these price imbalances, the fact that in Bulgaria the price of diesel is highest compared to the whole European Union should be added, provided that the amount of excise duties and taxes are lower. Direct losses for our country are also generated because of the fact that more and more transport companies using Bulgaria as a transit destination prefer to fill fuel in neighbouring countries such as Romania, Turkey and others. As an example in this direction, our home entrepreneurs, owners of large transport companies, who shared in the media that they are charging their fuel in Constanta, can also be pointed out. The example, which was presented in the media for the largest transport company in Bulgaria, which is loading precisely in Constanza more than 1 million. And 600,000. Literature diesel per month. In addition, in a price difference of more than 50 cm. The owner of the company was laconic enough to say that in these price ranges in Bulgaria, if he allowed himself to charge, his company would probably fail. In addition, the fact that uneven control of the fuel market stimulates the smuggling from which the treasury loses, loses all taxpayers too must also be taken into account. In this regard, Mr. Minister, my question to you is as follows: what is the government's strategy directly in the face of the Ministry of Economy to ease the common business and economic environment in Bulgaria, which is in relation to fuel prices? The business and economy in Bulgaria are directly dependent on fuel prices, which is pushing more and more on the Bulgarian business, increasing its costs and vapourizing the opportunities for increasing the level of domestic consumption and stimulating economic processes and initiatives as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u166	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Here you are, Minister Lukarski, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u167	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Belemezov, regarding the business environment and improving the conditions of the business and reducing the administrative burden are one of the leading priorities in the work of the Ministry of Economy. In this regard, our efforts are aimed at several main areas.Improving administrative regulation, simplifying procedures for the provision of administrative services at local and regional level, assessing the impact of regulations and introducing the impact test on small and medium-sized enterprises, and improving administrative service by introducing electronic management. In particular, in order to reduce the administrative burden on business by 20% at the end of 2014, two action plans have been developed and implemented at the end of 2014 and three codes, 22 laws and more than 50 regulations, instructions, regulations and others have been amended as of 31 December 2014. 224 of the total planned 302 measures have been implemented. A reduction in the administrative burden for business by 256 million has been achieved. lv. annual, representing 16.4% of the planned 20%. For the non-compliance of the measures, new implementation deadlines have been adopted by the end of 2015 and 2016. Among the most important measures are: the creation of an opportunity to submit various documents electronically to the National Revenue Agency, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Executive Agency of Labour and the launch of the Electronic Hospital List Register, which is about to add further business benefits by the end of 2015. Another important measure is the development of user manuals, guidelines and guidelines of accessible language and others. By decision of the Council of Ministers of May 2015, a third action plan was adopted to reduce the administrative burden for business by 30 percent in the period 2015 - 2017. The Ministry of Economy coordinates the work on the preparation and implementation of this plan, containing 129 measures that have the potential to reduce the administrative burden for business by 144,5 million. lv. Among the most important measures in this plan are: the establishment of a single information system between the National Statistical Institute, the National Revenue Agency and the Registry Agency, the development and publication of the websites of the Customs Agency, the instructions on the provision by electronic administrative means of documents to the customs authorities, the reduction of the deadline for carrying out amounts of excise duty to be returned from 14 to 7 days, according to the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses, and others. At present, an interim report on the third plan shows a reduction in the administrative burden for businesses by nearly 14.6 million. lv. Annually. So much for the Ministry of Economy's business environment policy. As for the specifics of your question, which is related to the relationship you make between the business environment and the prices of liquid fuels, I note that the prices of liquid fuels in Bulgaria are determined on a market basis. This means that they depend on market demand, international oil prices, the dollar rate, production costs, the amount of excise duties and other factors that are not directly related to the competence of the Ministry of Economy. In addition, as you yourself understand, in the event of a possible State interference in pricing, as was the time of the planned economy before 10 November, which would be contrary to current legislation, could create conditions for speculation and shortage of fuel on the market, not to mention that such an intervention itself constitutes an administrative burden. It should be borne in mind, in the short term, that such interference may also have social tensions, in the short term, increase the uncertainty of economic operators, distortion of the market, but in any event such interference should also be passed through legislation, such as the legislative initiative each of the Members of the National Assembly has. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u168	Thank you, Minister Lukarski. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov, for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u169	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, I understand from the answer that the state is still doing something in some direction in the face of the Ministry of Economy, such as removing problems and administrative burdens for business. This is a very important moment, I agree, but I cannot agree with the fact that the state should not have any, albeit indirect control over the overall market economy. I'll argue. If Bulgaria cannot do this because we live in a market economy, then tell me how the other countries in the European Union manage to do so, provided that the economies are also on a market basis there. The difference is very simple. It is not necessary for the state to interfere in these processes, to interfere in these processes. However, the state needs to directly protect the interest of the Bulgarian business. And the Bulgarian business in Bulgaria for the most part, perhaps more than 90%, is represented by the so-called small and medium-sized enterprises. And if the state abdicates the Ministry of Economy from the functions and duties to create a favourable market, economic environment for business, then I ask: is there protection of monopolies, is this the main thing that is being sought, or rather our direct role both in legislative terms, and it is in an executive way that we guarantee the interests of small and medium-sized businesses? And I repeat again a market economy that is in no way different from market economies throughout the European Union, in all 28 countries, how do other countries succeed, and with higher taxes and excise taxes, generate lower fuel prices to guarantee domestic consumption, guarantee economic pulse, develop the economy, and we in Bulgaria are not able to do so? Not because the state interferes or does not interfere. There's a reason I'm asking you to clarify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u170	Here you are, Minister Lukarski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Belemezov, first of all, it is speculative to claim that Bulgaria has the highest diesel prices, but I do not want to get into this topic. This is definitely not the statistic, but it is a fact that prices are high. I told you what the state is doing in the face of the Ministry of Economy as a protection of the business environment and in particular, we have talked long and wide, including answers to your questions, regarding the policy of the Ministry of Economy in defence of the small and medium business. As to whether certain monopolies are being protected or not, this is an answer that you must ask to the Competition Protection Commission controlled by the National Assembly. She's the one who's supposed to rule, not the Ministry of Economy. We don't have that kind of authority. We don't have legal authority either. As I told you, of course, you have a legislative initiative and you can always change what you think about legislation and create some other type of regulation on this type of market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u172	Thank you, Minister Lukarski. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov, to express your attitude towards asking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u173	Mr. Lukarsky, thank you for your answer. However, I wonder if the Bulgarian business, which is following your arguments today, will also have the opportunity to thank you. I know that the Commission for Protection of Competition should rule on this. However, when the state sees any problem, it does not prevent it from being addressed at different levels. This thing should happen as soon as possible, based on the analysis to produce concrete solutions. Is the State actually directly involved in managing these processes in terms of liquid fuel prices? Is there a representative of the Ministry of Economy in Neftohim or not? [[Replys from RB: There is!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u174	I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u175	What exactly is his role?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u176	Replies and debates cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u177	My attitude to your answer is that the really necessary, which should have been done the existential minimum, is not finished at the moment. I appeal to the state to consider funds, concepts and strategies by which we can regulate these processes. I'm not saying to directly interfere with them, I'm saying regulate them. The regulation comes by creating a favorable business environment. The state is directly responsible for this thing, and it is in the face of a severe financial crisis that is continuing both in the United States and in Japan, including in Western Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u178	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Minister Lukarski, thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. To a question from the National Representative Georgi Yanchev Gokov about the possibility of changes in the legal framework governing matters with our cultural and historical heritage will answer Vecdi Rashidov Minister of Culture. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear Minister, my question is about Stara Zagora, but it concerns our entire country. Everyone knows Stara Zagora as a city of poets, artists, you make streets, limes, but in addition, Stara Zagora is from the cities in Bulgaria and in Southeast Europe with the most ancient history with history over 8 thousand. years. There are many people who are not indifferent to the treatment of cultural and historical heritage in my hometown. It was such people who approached me as a representative from Stara Zagora. For years they have observed that the numerous archaeological monuments of culture, witnesses of our thousands of years of history in these lands, which are found in construction works, because of the current legislation, are buried in the basement and adjacent territories of buildings built in the 1990s period 2015 on the territory of the ancient city of Augusta Trayana. That is because the position and mass practice of the existing state committees is that the findings should be kept in the places where they were found. This is how the monuments found are buried by pouring or by separating sections of the construction where they are left, often completely inaccessible and unseemly. In addition, the constructions of buildings need to be complicated. The effect is double negative.. expensive construction, preserved monuments, which no one will be able to visit and see, and expensive and inconvenient construction is needed. Not to mention that despite serious control, parts of them have often been secretly destroyed. Currently, the Cultural Heritage Act and the Archaeological Research Ordinance do not have a clear procedure for action after the excavation and resolution of their fate. There are no clearly defined deadlines, as well as personal responsibility for the fate and condition of the findings found. There are no statutory rules for what documents and within what time limits are required to issue committees to the owners of yard seats that are on the territory of the reserve and where this construction initiative is undertaken. After all that I have said, Mr. Minister, I will formulate my question to you: do you think a legislative initiative can be undertaken to increase the regulatory opportunities for public-private partnership through which research, evaluation, extraction, restoration, conservation and exposure of really valuable archaeological monuments of cultural heritage can be financed? Are you and your team willing to work towards getting the numerous archaeological monuments of culture out and out in an appropriate way, of course, in our entire homeland, not only in Stara Zagora? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u180	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Minister Rashidov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs! Dear Mr. Gokov, your questions pose the problems related to the storage and exposition of numerous archaeological monuments on the territory not only of the archaeological reserve "Antical medieval city of Augusta Trayana "Vereya" in the town of Stara Zagora, but also in urbanized territories throughout the country. Their disclosure is most often related to the realization of investment projects of natural and legal persons in territories for which there is evidence of the existence of archaeological sites. The following problem arises in the discovery of archeological structures in private property. The unveiled archaeological sites are public state property in the category of nationally important until they are established as such in the appropriate order. The land remains private property, but the owner is not allowed to use his property according to his needs and intentions. The cultural heritage law enables him to free himself from the burdens that impose an archaeological cultural value and use his property. The application of all three possibilities requires the consent of the private person and concerns archaeological monuments of high public importance and category, but does not solve the problems with the others. I agree with your remarks regarding imperfections in the Cultural Heritage Act. The regulatory framework does not provide a solution to the problem of preserving and exposing the revealed archaeological sites in private properties. This applies to the Ordinance of the Archaeological Reserve (Augusta Trayana) in Stara Zagora, which lays down the conditions for archaeological and architectural research, design, construction, display of building of archaeological monuments and modern urban planning environment, and preservation of archaeological remains in the central urban core of Stara Zagora and its security area. The decree established in 1978, which played its positive role in its time, is no longer applicable due to non-compliance with the current regulations................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Ministry of Culture is ready to work on the preparation of a procedure for measures and actions to decide the fate of archaeological monuments, in collaboration with the state and municipal authorities concerned and civil society, taking into account both public and private interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u182	Thank you, Minister Rashidov. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, you are entitled to a reply within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u183	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, I see in you the will to solve your problems and thank you for your answer. I hope, and not just me, your and your expert team's interest, empathy and concern for the fate, preservation and exposure of cultural heritage not only in our city but in our entire homeland. This could bring many direct and indirect benefits for the development of cultural tourism in our country and for Stara Zagora not to mention. A city with over eight thousand years of history, one of the district centers of Bulgaria, extremely rich in cultural and historical monuments, should be able to profit from tourism. In fact, I'd say he has to win. But you can't put a mechanical beat on people's heads, for example, that Stara Zagora is 8,000. years and that this is where European civilization started. We need to show them this wealth, we need a new concept, a new vision for the preservation and exposure of the finds, and especially for the development of what we have as cultural and historical wealth. We're waiting, Minister, me and the Stara Zagoras. I see again, I say, the will in you to go in the direction of solving problems in this area. Mr. Minister, I'm warning you, you won't be able to escape the engagement. If I don't make sure that your team is working in this direction within six months, I will ask you the questions again, and believe me, I will be much more aggressive about solving them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u184	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. A hole, Minister Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u185	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Gokov, thank you for the question, because this problem must be solved. In the exhibition I told you that these are regulations and laws adopted in 1978. Since there are very serious changes in both private property and privatization, it is clear that the Law must be corrected, there are no two opinions in this. I'm going to give you an even more drastic example because you talked about cultural tourism and tourism. Of course, I have always been about Bulgaria developing this business. There is reason for this because Bulgaria is one of the few countries with a lot of culture. For 30 years there has been such a serious problem in Varna, not only in Stara Zagora. You know, it's one of our big tourist towns. There's a Dupka sitting in the center of town, as the Varna people call it. Because of this legislation, it is difficult to find a solution, and to this day the centre of one of our largest tourist cities is our fish, nor cancer, if I may say so. We need to find both legal forms and state will, of course, to solve these problems precisely because we need to make our state and have cultural tourism. Let me just get this straight. Years ago, I was a city councilman when they were renovating the Central Bath, digging the way and opening up the eastern entrance of Serdika. You remember, then, how they buried him with gravel in order to preserve him for better times. When we started digging for the subway, the first debris came out and we stopped building. The subway's been drenched because it's gone a little below the level. In two months, we'll be witnessing as Pompey of a miracle, a wonderful thing that will be good for our city. A hundred percent agree with what you say, and we will work in that direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u186	I thank Culture Minister Vejdi Rashidov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. Three questions will be answered by Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov. The first question is from the MP Martin Dimitrov on the expected results of attracting a company for international investigations for KTB Bank. Mr. Dimitrov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u187	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Including at our insistence with the active actions of you, Mr. Minister, and, of course, the Deposit Guarantee Fund was attracted a company for international investigations with regard to Corporate Commercial Bank. This is a must in view of the amount of money we believe is being used for which there should be persecution to see who the persons involved are and ultimately to have responsibility by the criminal authorities. Too little is known about the contract with the company for international investigations and my most important question to you is this: is there any clarity when there will be an interim report? So this firm should return us at least by the end of the year an interim report which, if it has to summarize the data, does not give us specific jurisdictions or specific places, but still see what happens, what is the success. I understand that you will answer me that a great concreteization cannot exist, but still we as parliament, you as a government need to know what progress is for CCB, what happens, will money be returned? And you know that the state as a creditor, loaning billions to the Deposit Guarantee Fund, has a serious interest in bringing at least some of the money with which it was abused in relation to CCB back. I admit that it is even more important for me to establish the circle of involved persons related to the KTB affair, including from Bulgarian politics, from the Bulgarian business and perhaps from other interesting circles in Bulgaria. Mr. Minister, my specific question to you is: when will there be a specific interim report from the company for international investigations? As generalizing as it may be, when will we be able to know more about what is happening, and what results are being achieved? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u188	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Minister Goranov, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Dimitrov, Dear Gentlemen of the National Assembly! We think exactly the same and on a daily basis with particular attention to the process and work of the Syndicates and the Deposit Guarantee Fund. What I can brief you on is that an interim report is not provided for in the contract, but is committed to having the final report ready by the end of September, that is, very soon. They shall provide information on an operational basis and provide consultations to the Syndicates throughout the period since the contract was concluded in June 2015. Of course, in order to protect the interests of the bankruptcy table, it is not appropriate to comment on them out loud and in detail, as to a large extent those who want to damage the bankruptcy mass will be able to prepare themselves on the basis of the information given by the consultant, but I would like to assure you that the company has provided quite professionally and in detail information and we will be able to use it by the end of the month. As soon as the final report is drawn up, I am ready to discuss how to introduce the people's representation to it and how to use it, because, you know, we are moving on thin ice on legal constraints, but I am open to debate on how to use the outcome of this report. I have confidence he'll be ready in a few days. That's short on the subject. On the following questions you've asked, we'll continue digging.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u190	Thank you, Minister Goranov. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov, straight to the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u191	Minister, I have no doubt that this report will also be given to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. Perhaps this should be done by you or by the Syndicates. As soon as it is prepared, the first place where this report should fall for seeking responsibility is the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. I wish, Mr. Minister, at least summarized data from the final report, which I now understand from you, will be ready in a few days to be provided to both the MPs and the Bulgarian society. Let us summarize data so that we cannot talk about damage, about warning certain individuals who will be held accountable. Consider an option that you will present to the National Assembly with a summary of this report. I hope that the KTB affair will not be covered, and now the time will come for personal responsibility and for the return of at least part of the money so that these people will understand that they will not get away with it and if they think about such an affair as KTB, they will know that there have been condemned that there has been a responsibility, so that they do not think to do such things elsewhere again in Bulgaria. So, Minister, there is an option for you to submit summary data when this report is ready and before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u192	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. The right to the doppelganger, Mr. Minister? No, you're giving up the law. The next question is from the MPs Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov and Petar Vladislavov Slavov on progress in contesting the acquisition of assets of KTB, damaging the interests of the depositors and creditors. Mr. Slavov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, this issue somewhat complements the previous one and concerns the attacks on CCB assets, which damage the interests of the depositors and creditors another very hot and disturbing topic for society. Here's the question. Dear Minister, in May 2015 in the Chamber of the National Assembly you announced information on our previous issue on the protection of the rights of creditors and depositors in the CCB that at that time only eight intercepts worth approximately 4.6 million were attacked before a court. lv. At the same time, you pointed out that the syndics have detected over 180 intercepts, which are reported to be damaging and which are logical to be attacked. According to public information, the intercepts that damage the interests of investors and creditors in CCB are worth more than 1 billion. lv. Taking adequate action from the deposits guarantee fund in the bank syndics, including, above all, the taking of cancellations and the taking of collateral measures on assets, is essential to ensure that KTB's assets are not plundered or sold out at a priceless price and the state, the depositors and creditors of CCB will be able to obtain back a maximum of the funds that have sunk there. As we well remember, only the Deposit Guarantee Fund in banks has provided over 3.7 billion. lv. for the payment of guaranteed deposits, of which nearly 2 billion were loans from the government of Bulgaria. In this regard, Mr. Minister, our question with colleague Dimitrov to you is: what actions have been taken so far by the CCB's Syndicates to challenge the intercepts carried out, including how much and how much are the claims brought and how much and how much are the collateral measures imposed on CCB assets and collateral on loans granted by CCB? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u194	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Minister Goranov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u195	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Slavov and Mr. Dimitrov, I'm making the agreement that I may not be able to fit in time with the answer, but I'll try to present it in fullness. I am going from there that unfortunately much of what was missing in KTB was missing before the bankruptcy process began. In other words, much of the funds in my opinion have been wasted inside, but we are working on this in particular. For the period from your previous question, from the end of May until now, the active actions continue. We can now report 156 attacks on intercept statements with material interest of 185,8 million. lv. All the contested applicants are subject to a total of 25 pending claims proceedings in the Sofia City Court. The legal proceedings are at a relatively early stage and in some cases the responses to the claims were returned and additional claims were submitted by the bank's trade union within the time limit laid down in the GPC. In other cases, those procedural actions are pending. Two of the cases were subpoenaed for the first hearing. The analysis of the intercepts that are subject to cancellation continues at the moment, with at least five more requests being submitted within the next month to attack intercepts worth more than 70 million. lv. In assessing the total number of cancellations brought against detentions, it should be noted that they relate to cases which are factual and legal complexity and in which there is no case-law so far. Foreclosure actions in relation to the part of the bank's loan portfolio that was the subject of the bank's borrowers' seizure, in respect of bank loan contracts on which there are applications for intercepts, no action shall be taken to delete the collateral. In this way, it shall be possible to take enforcement action on the recovery of the loans subject to the revocation after the revocation of the action brought in force by a judicial decision, by making use of the security established under the contract and non-deleted. In addition, legal proceedings have been initiated to attack in the order of action on the deletion of collateral on loans repaid by intercepts which were carried out in the period prior to the entry into office of the provisional trade union. In the exercise of the powers of the insolvency administrators under the Bankruptcy Act, actions have been taken to preserve and fill the insolvency table, which, in the part concerning the bank's loan portfolio, are mostly expressed in forced actions to recover claims and cancel actions and transactions carried out by debtors of the bank. I will quote several numbers, which I will then present to your attention as specific data, so that I do not take up the time of the entire parliament. I will quote you a table on the measures taken against the debtors of the bank and the amount of the claims, part of the bank's loan portfolio to which the measures relate, by type of production and material interest calculated by the syndics: Adherence to implementation under the Law on Special Bets 336 thousand. 150 BGN.; insolvency proceedings against a large number of debtors with a material interest of 2 billion. The Commission 924 thousand. £620.; order proceedings under art. 417 of the GPC 1 billion. 472 million (after further figures); issued executive sheets and orders for immediate execution "609,7 million; initiated executive proceedings.. 554,5 million; actions in criminal proceedings against debtors and solidarity responsible persons.. 211.1 million; interim proceedings against debtors of the bank or guarantors and solidarity responsible persons............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. lv.; cancellation claims against actions of the debtors of the bank. 117.9 million; claims against former administrators of the bank.. 18,4 million; claims under art. 60 of the Bankruptcy Act for the return of assets originating in the Bank.................................................................................................................. lv.; other types of legal proceedings, including explanatory claims under art. Article 422 of the GPC and Article 422 of the GPC 419 of the same code of 10,9 million. I also provide you with a detailed reference to this information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u196	Thank you, Minister Goranov. I apologize for breaking the Rules, but due to the high public interest in the matter, I have allowed myself not to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u197	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u198	Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u199	That's a very short line, Mr. Chairman. Minister, we have seen the progress made since May to date. Since eight proceedings then, you have now quoted nearly 160, and that is for substantial amounts. I take a line to draw your attention to a key point which, I am sure, you understand perfectly and I am convinced that most of the Bulgarian citizens are well aware that it is not in itself that the conduct of cases is as important as ensuring the existence of assets which can then be returned to the bankruptcy table. In other words, the lack of adequate collateral to be made in these cases could negate the good outcome of the cases themselves. You have also partially mentioned it in your reply, but as you recall, with the legislative changes at the end of last year, we introduced something quite important in the Bankruptcy Act, namely the possibility to seek out third subsequent acquirers of assets in the bank, the assets received when it was obtained by arranging the creditors of the bank. In other words, this is the so-called property originating in the bank, regardless of the transformation that may have been undergone, regardless of the whole chain of hollow owners, which may have been arranged up to the actual beneficiary of this property. It seems to me that perhaps, through the Deposit Guarantee Fund, attention should be paid to the Syndicates, to consider possibly, including on the basis of the report referred to in the previous question, but seeing from the investigative company where the property went from the CCB, a similar claim could be directed to the final beneficiaries and to request, firstly, its securing through a block or a ban, and to the next place the possibility to be returned to the bankruptcy table and from there to the creditors and the depositors in CCB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u200	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Right on the back, Mr. Secretary. You're giving up. The next question is from the same MPs.. Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, regarding detailed reference on the number and capacity of the tax warehouses for fuels 2014......................................................................................... Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u201	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister! With today's date. 25 September, the diesel in Bulgaria without taxes according to the data on the site. Energy IQs is the fourth most expensive in the whole European Union, with the price in Bulgaria without taxes, i.e. without VAT and without excise, is 15 cents above the average European price. That's today's date. At the beginning of September, the diesel was, remember, again on the information we delivered, the second most expensive in the entire European Union. In response to the People's representative from the Blue Coalition in the 40th and first National Assembly Ivan Ivanov, your predecessor Dyankov answers and gives detailed reference to the number, capacity, type of fuel, license number and structure of the tax warehouses for fuel in Bulgaria. I found out about these 27 tax warehouses. Why are these tax warehouses important? As a result, according to a sector analysis by the 2011 Commission for Protection of Competition, it is stated that more than 80% of the 2011 tax warehouses were owned by a single owner. Speaking to the Commission spokesperson of 3 September this year, a number of letters were even shown from the KPC to state institutions, including your predecessor, indicating that the latter is an obstacle to competition in the sector. The relationship between competition, the regime of access to tax warehouses and fuel prices is obvious. Thus, the limitation of access of fuel traders to tax warehouses constitutes a direct obstacle and, in substance, a non-cost barrier to real competition and the free market, and from there, to market distortions, including the possibility of abuse, to the dominant or monopoly position of the owners of tax warehouses, where they are also traders, and from here to market price increases. My question to you, Minister, is as follows: what is the number, capacity, type of fuel, license number and structure of the tax warehouses for fuels in 2014 and at the present time of 2015? If you could also give us a reference similar to your predecessor Simeon Dyankov. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u202	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Minister Goranov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u203	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Dimitrov and Mr. Slavov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Of course, I've prepared a reference and I'll give it to you. I'm not going to quote it, maybe I'll only quote part of it: gas storage capacity 451 million. 908 thousand. liters; gas oil storage capacity 1 ml. 180.5 million. Liters; storage capacity for heavy fuel 319,6 million Literature; storage capacity for biodiesel 8,2 million Literature. I'm looking at the license numbers and licensed warehousekeepers that I'm going to hand over to you. Unfortunately, what my colleagues at the Ministry have prepared for me as a version of an answer contains the following tract, which I am ready to explore further and, if it turns out to be incorrect, in writing, I can expand the information I provide to you. However, what my colleagues have paid attention to is that according to the provision of art. 72, para. 1, t. 4 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (APC) its tax insurance information is specific individualising data for the taxable persons and entities concerning the data of commercial activity; the value and type of individual assets and liabilities or assets representing commercial secrecy. In this sense, they argue that I could not provide detailed data on capacity for each licensed warehouse. If 2011 is given to you in this form, I will insist to the administration and prepare a written reply for you with exactly the same information structure. What I am giving you today in answer to your question is a reference to license numbers, BULSTATs of individual traders and the names of licensed warehousekeepers with summary information. I'll keep insisting if 2011 is given more detailed information, and when the administration prepares it, I will give it to you in writing. Now I'm ready to give you this information, I'll even leave it on the stands. [[Leaves information on the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u204	Thank you, Minister Goranov, for the answer and the correct promise. He has the floor for Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u205	Yes, Minister, 2011 is given the capacities for each tax warehouse, for each of 27 units, specifying whether it is gasoline, diesel, heavy fuel or biodiesel. But in addition to giving us a more detailed reference, I would also address you with the following question, which, as the poet said, is there still a concentration of ownership in a company, as it was in 2011? In other words, we insist that you not only return information about the specific capacity of the tax warehouses, but also by collecting this information, which should have been public and 2011 it has been such that I will give you a copy of the answer that we have from this year, should you tell us whether there is a concentration of ownership as of 2014? Is there another company that owns a huge part of that capacity? Because, if so, the future Commission for Protection of Competition should be addressed on this matter and taken the necessary action. I can give you, for example, a very serious action on the protection of competition in the fuel market in Romania. I would also like to tell you that we first tried to obtain this information in a written question before the Ministry of Finance and we were told to check the relevant registers again an attempt to surround the specific response, namely the capacity of each warehouse. Because if we don't have an answer like that, we can't tell if there's concentration. You can have two warehouses, but if they have 90% of the capacity, you have 80% of the market, like I'm telling you. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I hope you will respond specifically and we will assess whether we have a concentration of property here and whether this is an obstacle and can influence one of the reasons, one of the factors that leads to higher fuel prices in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u206	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Thanks to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, for today's participation in parliamentary control. Four questions will be answered by Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question is from the National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov on taking urgent action to restore traffic along the road Sliven Ichera. Mr. Slavov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u207	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, for nearly a year now. Since October 2014, following the fall of the land mass after the locality the Chukata................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. And if for most of the places in Northern Bulgaria the consequences of closing the road are bearable, it is not so for people who live or have seasonal houses in the picturesque Kotel Balkan. Expectations of people in this area to restore normal access to settlements and recreational areas did not meet the timely actions of those responsible for effective solutions. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following question: Given the operationality of the Road Infrastructure Agency, as well as the respect, the responsibility with which you carry your functions as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, is it possible in the coming months, before the beginning of the winter season, the road Sliven Ichera to Kotel to restore its operation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u208	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u209	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ivanov, yes, as you rightly pointed out, the third-class Republican road from Ichera to Sliven, as a result of heavy rainfall in the past year, and especially now and the beginning of this year, has a serious decline in a 90-meter section of the road at 25 km. As this failure is serious, compromising the pavement concerns the whole lane of traffic, including the basis of the road, as well as the banquet. All of this imposed and resulted in 10 kilometres from a total of almost 40 kilometers from this road direction being closed to traffic, as they are impenetrable due to the collapse of the vast land mass and the serious compromise of this road section. What the Road Agency has done so far, in addition to the mandatory closure and restraint of the road, are provided two bypass routes on which travelers, living, including tourists, can also pass to the area of Karandila and Sliven. What has been done: a selection procedure has been carried out for a contractor to prepare a geological survey and based on it to design with a specific project and concrete reinforcement measures, as we are here talking, on the one hand, to strengthen the landslide, of course, joint and coordination with the competent authority, in the face of the This design is being completed right now. The indicative value currently exceeds 900 thousand. BGN, which are necessary only for the very strengthening of the landslide. With the restoration of the banquet, the road base and so on, the amount may be increased. Unfortunately, in the budget of the Agency, we do not have such funds and therefore, as the procedure allows, the Road Agency applies for its financing under the Interdepartmental Committee on Disasters and Accidents. So once we finalise and adopt the project, I hope that the Commission will grant funding, but whether it will be in this financial year or in the next, I cannot confirm to date, only then will we conduct the procedure and start restoring the road. So it's not very encouraging really whether we'll be able to do it before the winter season. What I can confirm is that if we fail to do so before the winter season, of course, the two bypass routes that are given in this direction are in good condition and will be maintained in good condition and under winter conditions, so that we can still ensure the passage of both the living and the tourists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u210	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, for a reply to Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u211	Thank you, dear Minister! I admit that I am not particularly satisfied with the promises and commitments you have made in your response. I point out that at present the road Sliven is in very good condition, except for this section. It is systematic, constantly maintained, precisely because of this and preferred by a large number of carriers, even by freight transport. I would like to believe that the action that has been taken so far will lead to urgent ones, and if not in the next two months, then in the next few, it can come to an effective end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u212	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A hole, Madam Secretary? You don't want to. The next question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Pavlova is from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov on the construction of Lot 3 of the Motorway Struma. Here you are, Mr. Stoyanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my question to you is about the Struma Motorway and its complex completion and construction. The entire construction of Struma Motorway is a national strategic and structurally defining road project for both the country and the entire Southwestern region. It is the main road artery of Southwestern Bulgaria and is key to the development of the region. Fortunately, not a small part of it is already ready and functioning normally, and another part is to be completed and put into effect no later than the end of this calendar year. Of course, for all that has been achieved so far, you, Madam Minister, deserve to be admired, because indeed to a large extent all this has happened with your active participation. In view of the above and in this regard, my question to you is as follows: at what stage is the preparation and possible launch of Lot 3 of Struma Motorway, which includes the 64 km segment between Blagoevgrad and Sandanski? Is there a project drawn up for the most complex section of this route, namely the second subdivision between Krupnik and Kresna? Are there any already approved parameters of relevant technical equipment to this sub-dwelling tunnels, viaducts, estacades and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u214	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. After praising Minister Pavlova, let us now give her the floor to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoyanov, Struma Motorway in its entire direction from Sofia to the Greek border is an extremely important transit corridor with serious traffic. That is why, you know, in recent years we have been trying to complete it. What remains to be completed? I'll start with the precinct at the moment of construction. This is the section of the existing highway that is currently ending at Dupnitsa to Blagoevgrad. This section, according to the answer, must be completed by the end of October, and I hope that the builders will be able to finish this section a little earlier, so that the direction from Sofia to Blagoevgrad, already with a fully completed highway, will function and not create prerequisites for the formation of the taps in the movement, especially in the most busy section to Blagoevgrad. In August, you know, we also completed the construction of the section in the last lot of the highway "Struma" - namely Lot 4 - the section from Sandanski to the Tower, including the section near the border. It's already functioning successfully. The good news of today is that today we have already signed a contract and started the first approved project for financing under the new Operational Programme "Transport 2014 - 2020" which includes the entire Lot 3 direction. The total section of 62 km, which is necessary to be rebuilt by Lot 3, includes three subdivisions. The first subdivision is from Blagoevgrad to Krupnik. For this department, we have already conducted a procedure for selecting a contractor. She's in the middle of an appeal. Once the appeal is complete, we will be able to start working on this precinct. In this area, although with a separate procedure, there is the construction of a tunnel at Zheleznitsa. It is also to be declared a tender procedure. I hope that at the latest in October and next year the construction of this tunnel section will begin. With regard to the section of the already existing new highway at Sandanski, if we go as a movement, from Sandanski to Kresna, today we have signed a contract with our chosen contractor, as well as a builder, construction supervision. The contract is on the principle of engineering, which means that the chosen builder, with whom we signed a contract today, the maximum value of the entire contract is 280 million. BGN, he has a commitment to make the additional work and technical design. It's a 24-mile stretch. Includes nine large facilities, nine bridge facilities and separate two large road nodes. This redesign should happen in the coming months, in the winter season. For our part, we will have to carry out the alienation procedures and I hope that from next year, real construction activities can begin. The toughest construction site remains, as you noted, from the Kresna Gorge about 22 km. We have a selected contractor, a designer who is currently designing to choose the best from both technical and environmental point of view a model for passing through the gorge. You know, due to serious risks, you've completely dropped the option of a single tunnel through this whole route. This is why a combination of small tunnels, viaducts, additional facilities, as well as two-level crossings are currently being designed. The designer must present this project to our attention by the end of the year and the following year to pass all the procedures for its coordination, approval. Once agreed and approved, we will launch a tender procedure for selecting a contractor to begin its construction as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u216	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Stoyanov, I saw you taking notes. Do you want a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, thank you for your information. It had the necessary specifics about the technical parameters. It is obvious that both your office and the government are qualified, responsible for the overall and complex completion of both Struma Motorway and above all Lot 3. The Struma Motorway is one of the most busy sections and roads in the whole country. Unfortunately, it is one of the routes with the worst road accidents. Its rapid completion is extremely important. The main, most problematic, most hard-working, financial-intensive section of Lot 3 remains, as you said, the Kresna Gorge division. In this regard, it is extremely important to choose precisely that optimal, most effective option, which on the one hand is financially profitable, but on the other, even more important side, it should be truly extremely appropriate, extremely effective, maximumly safe. Of course, not least, to be as reliable as possible in view of the specific features of the terrain. You know, a lot of this terrain also falls into the Natura 2000 site. Potential seismics of the area should also be taken into account. In this regard, saying everything, two brief questions, if you are ready, of course, to answer: what are the relative deadlines for completing Lot 3 in your opinion? Is there any State co-financing in relation to the completion of this lot? If there is such co-financing, and perhaps there is, what is its cost, its real value? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u218	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stoyanov, regarding the deadlines for the construction of the remaining sections of Lot 3 and respectively the three subdivisions, I would say, with regard to the contract that we have concluded today for the section from Kresna to Sandanski, these 24 km, the overall term of the contract is up to three and a half years. This period can be significantly shortened, as in these three and a half years we include the entire procedure related to design, project approval, building permit and parallel implementation of alienation procedures. So if we assume that the maximum time limit for this to happen is about a year and is reduced to half a year, which is realistic, I say again, depends on the alienations, on the appeals of these alienations, then the time limit will automatically be reduced, which means that at the end of 2018 it will be built. Again, this is subject to good design, project approval and successfully conducted alienation procedures. If not, this period will be extended and will be 2019. With regard to the section, which is from Blagoevgrad to Krupnik, including the tunnel of Zheleznik, we are also talking about engineering, which means redesigning and alienation, then construction activities. The deadline is also three years, which means that in 2019 we have real, also in successful tender procedures, at the latest closure of this project. I hope that all these deadlines can be shortened. The section in the gorge is planned, the duration of the programme and the financial resource that we have is provided and is entirely under the Operational Programme "Transport" entirely from European funding. There are no additional budget funds outside the standard co-financing system, you know, 80% grant, 20% of the state budget. We have available, available resources, even hope to stay and save for other projects, but the deadline for its implementation is up to 2022. At the latest then this section must be built. Of course, we are making every necessary effort to make this happen much earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u220	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to Minister Pavlova is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov again the need for immediate and urgent repair of a section of the road Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, my question is about repairing a section of the road or more urgent repair of a section of the road I have to ask you again. In March this year, I asked you a similar question in the parliamentary control of the repair of this road. The answer was then written and I will allow myself to quote some of it. The units with a total length of 1.8 km, which are in the regulation of the town of Galabovo, are really in poor operational condition. In order to ensure traffic safety, partial repair activities under the programme are provided for this year. In order to complete the rehabilitation of the section from zero to sixteen kilometers and to implement a major repair of the areas in the regulation of the town of Galabovo, approximately 4.5 million are needed. lv. At present, these funds are not available in the Agency's budget and, when providing targeted funding, the agency will include route III-5031 within the municipality of Galabovo in its repair programme. So much for quotes. I'm not gonna talk about the state of this whole Republican road. I will not remind you that on the territory of the town of Galabovo its condition is so bad that there are even areas that lack any pavement and that this whole section is no different from a Polish road, or, more precisely, different, because there are no such huge holes on the Polish roads. I'm not going to talk about the fact that this road hasn't been renovated in over 25 years. I am not going to talk about the huge load of transport infrastructure in this important energy area that serves serious structures of national importance and businesses operating on a 24-hour basis. I will only find that now nearly six months after your recognition that the sections that are in the regulation of the town of Galabovo are in really bad shape, and I would say in an impossible state of operation, it is a fact that real repairs have not been undertaken, despite your promise that partial repairs under the programme are envisaged this year. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I will ask you again the question: Madam Minister, when will at least the planned partial repairs under the programme be carried out?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u222	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gokov, and to date I can confirm the written answer given to your question regarding the status of the road from Galabovo through Opan to Stara Zagora. Yes, the condition of the road is unsatisfactory. That is precisely why, and here I must already distinguish myself from what you have just said from the parliamentary tribune, we have done, as it says in my reply to you six months ago, partial repairs to parts of this road. Yes, all compromised sections have not been fully repaired, unfortunately, but in relation to the available resources, compared to the available budget available to the Agency, the Roads for the Current Repair and Maintenance of these roads, as in March and April, partial repairs have been carried out, namely the patching of compromised sections in this direction, as well as now in September, literally in the last weeks of the month, the last days of this week, including partially mending and repairing of compromised sections. The division in which no repairs were actually carried out is only in the regulated, urbanised territory of the municipality of Galabovo. What is the reason for this? The reason is that where partial patching of compromised areas took place, the terrain still allows such patching. Unfortunately, in the area of the regulation of the town of Galabovo, repair and mending is not possible. It is not possible because, as you said, the road is in such a bad state that with patches on patches we cannot solve the problem. That is why the Roads Agency for lack of resources to fully repair it, what you have commissioned is the development of a technology project, because there must be a complete repair of the road base and only then to re-assalate the road in order to be able to be brought into good condition. Anything else would be money thrown into the wind, and these patches would literally open in a few weeks in the rain and snow. That's the reason it wasn't only done in this part. You know very well, you know that for many other reasons, including personal reasons, what is the situation with the Agency's budget and those working there do everything they can to prioritize the budget on all roads, but as we say: as many repairs we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u224	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, but I can't say I'm satisfied with it. I will be partly satisfied and not just me, but the people living in Galabovo, only when they see that this precinct in Galabovo has been repaired. I don't know, but now people should probably get into a position and realize that there is no money, but I will remind you of some of your words, spoken as a candidate for a member of the 27th district of Stara Zagora. Then you said: "It is important for smaller settlements to be stimulated to reduce migration from villages to cities. There is only one way to finance public works, health care, schools and jobs. Pigeons remember and share that you then made a specific commitment to repair this section. I will return to your words that many things can be understood by decorating, but you should know that for the people of Galabovo and especially for those who live along the broken section for years, the decorating starts from the repair of this section not to break their cars, not to raise dust and noise when passing cars and trucks from there, not to shake their houses and not to crack their fences from the constant tremors when trucks pass through the huge holes. These are petty things, but they're important to these people because they climb the highway once a year, not her, but this way they go daily, even several times a day. Not even on the whole road, I understand that such patches and individual repairs are being made, I know that this time you have to redesign the whole, but it's about a mile away and 800 meters away people will be happy about that too. Mrs. Pavlova, I think this problem cannot be delayed anymore, and I do not know if it will be able to be resolved within this year, but understand that it cannot be delayed. And don't tell me that at the moment there is no available funds in the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency, because this sounds kind of strange against the backdrop of the fact that the Ministry of Finance continues to publish news about expected serious budget surpluses under the consolidated fiscal programme. That's it, Madam Secretary. Pigeons are waiting. I know about the difficulties, I know about the finances, but people want what they want, and they deserve it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u226	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Madam Minister, you don't want the back. We move on to the next question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Pavlova. The issue is from the MPs Petar Slavov and Willi Lilkov concerning additional checks for illegal registrations at a permanent or current address, carried out in connection with the upcoming local elections. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! At the end of July we gave you some additional powers, I mean to the MRDP, with the then amendments to the Law on Civil Registration, which the Parliament adopted, and I see that really from your previous answers, which I read on this topic, a lot of effort has been made, but I still ask this question because I think the result could have been a little better. It is clear from the answers provided by you to Parliament in relation to questions of MPs from the Reformation bloc that in the period 1 May 2014 - 30 April 2015 there were unusually many re-registereds made at the current and permanent address - these are the so-called "elections', as we all well understand, or the majority of them, namely 59 300 thousand in permanent, nearly 130 thousand in current or total of nearly 180 thousand re-registereds. At the same time, the checks carried out pursuant to the amendments introduced to the Law on the Civil Registration of the MRB were empowered to control the actions of the local authorities and the district managers in carrying out the checks for the registrations carried out during that period, their legality in particular, including a representative of the MRB involved in the relevant committees to the local administrations and mayors who carried out the review of the lawful carrying out of these registrations. It became clear from the data provided to the National Assembly in relation to such verification that the identified problem registrations were a total of 1724 or less than 1% of the total number of re-registereds carried out during the period. These data against the background of the numerous signals of violations of the Law, including registrations at a current address in properties without the knowledge of their owners or registration of dozens of people in a one-storey house and so on, seem insufficient. For example, only in the region of Sunny Beach, Nessebar Municipality, where...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u228	Time's running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u229	Yeah. It was only there for over 2,000 re-registereds. Dear Minister, please answer the following question: Are you satisfied with what the representatives of the MRF in the committees of the local administrations have done to verify illegal re-registereds with a view to exercising active control over their activities and ensuring that the illegal registrations found in connection with the elections and the removals carried out are objective and credible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u230	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u231	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House, dear Mr. Slavov! With regard to the checks, as regards the Law on Civil Registration, this is a very long topic. We will certainly not be able to cover it within a parliamentary issue. But I have two very important details before I specifically answer your question. At the end of July, the changes adopted by the National Assembly in the Law on Civil Registration regarding additional checks of all reregistered persons within the time limit to be able to participate in the elections for a local vote really gave additional commitments for checks, but, unfortunately, they did not give powers to the MRB and, in particular, the GRAO to carry out controls. What was adopted in the Law was the requirement for municipalities to form committees in which representatives of both the CSO and the Ministry of Interior and the competent services to do checks on the really massive re-registered citizens in some places. And in those places where the mayors refused to do such type of checks on the... through the district governor and the instructions given by the city, they did these checks despite the unwillingness of these mayors. The verified persons who were reregistered at the last moment before the deadline for the date of sedentary really covered a number of re-registereds, but only 1774 of them accounted for non-compliance with the Law, namely non-compliance in a building to have 10 squares per person or the provision of documents. In all other places it is visible that it is election, it is visible that it is on a larger scale, but the Law is respected. Therefore, I would personally appeal to you and the Members of the National Assembly to think rather of more cardinal amendments to the Law on Civil Registration and the Election Code, including perhaps, first in terms of electoral lists, perhaps there to make an active registration of those who participate in the elections, but to give more serious powers. I give an example: under the current Law, any mayor who can single-handedly issue an address registration on a permanent and current address of a person has the right to issue to him, even if this person wants this for an address registration for a property that is not regulated, for a property that is agricultural land and for a property on which there is not even a single barack built. This is very common in the territory of many municipalities. We see it in the references we make. I have personally referred to the prosecution for certain cases in certain municipalities where we see unregulated agricultural land properties, in which we have a number of persons accommodated with an address registration, and there even on a sketch, according to the plan of the property, there is no structure. So these are changes to which I would appeal to the National Assembly to reach consensus or to find the best solution. Otherwise, with regard to the complete electoral lists of the information that we published on 15 September, we have deleted 534 thousand voters screaming from individuals who are entitled to vote for the election of mayors and municipal councillors in October because these individuals do not fully comply with the principle of sedentary because they live abroad. After all, this is a serious issue. While these individuals, despite living abroad, will have the right to vote for the national referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u232	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Slavov, you have two minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for that answer. I see that indeed the Ministry of Regional Development and you in particular have made great efforts in this short period to really carry out checks on all settlements. It is quite disturbing for me what you said that there were settlements in which mayors and administration refused to comply with the provisions of the Law, to set up these verification committees, in which representatives of MRRB, regional administration, Ministry of Interior and so on, there were probably mayors who simply broke the law. So I do accept this appeal that you have sent to us to improve the Law in this respect, to provide for these hypotheses that you have quoted and which are currently missing and apparently other loopholes to circumvent the purpose and the spirit of the law. I hope that we will do this with our colleagues as soon as possible. Indeed, these extremely vicious practices that make the vote of people living in a given locality meaningless to be once and for all terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u234	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Madam Minister, if you don't want a duplicate, I'd like to thank you for your participation in parliamentary control. That was the last question for you. Enjoy your work. We are going to ask questions to the Minister of Health Mr. Petar Moskov. The first question is from the National Representative Velizar Enchev regarding the public circumcision of Bulgarian children in Omurtag by Turkish doctors. Here you are, Mr. Enchev, to develop your question to Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u235	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, a few colleagues, maybe five in number! On September 5, 2015, a Turkish delegation led by Adrian Dursun District Governor Ali Shahin visited Targovishte. During the visit, under the patronage of Ali Shahin, at the town stadium in Omurtag, a mass sunnet of 127 boys was performed. The circumcision was carried out by two Turkish doctors. On this occasion, I have the following questions to you, Mr Minister: what is the opinion of the ministry in charge of such an event in public? The Ministry of Health, this is the second question, has it agreed to mass circumcision by Turkish doctors and checked the medical qualifications of the doctors in question? And the third question: Do you medically approve of such public rituals? Before you answer the questions, let me make it clear that such public rituals, which are extremely unsanitary, performed in the particular case in front of a whole stadium, in the presence of hundreds of people, have so far been performed only in Turkey. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the Law on Religions, Section "Restriction of Faithful Freedoms", art. 7, para. 4 It is said that the rights and freedoms in religious communities cannot be limited by the rituals and rites of this community. I say this because morally circumcision is an indisputable act that violates the human rights of the child, because without its conscious consent, Minister, it is also subject to pain and irreversible bodily change, especially when there is no objective medical reason for it. This is, of course, medically speaking, as well as the questions I have asked concern mostly medical matters, but they are deeply moral, political issues that I will address during my reply. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u236	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Moskov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u237	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Enchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, regarding the question you have raised regarding the public circumcision of Bulgarian children in Omurtag by Turkish doctors, I inform you of the following. Information about such mass religious rituals appears periodically in regions with predominantly Muslim population. They are related to the ritual circumcision of healthy children because of the religiously motivated desire of parents within their parental rights corresponding to the constitutional guarantee of religious freedom and the right to exercise religion. For the current event, organized and conducted under the patronage of the regional governor of Adrianople, information at the Ministry of Health received from the media after the event was completed. In RZI, Targovishte, as a regional structure of the Ministry of Health, has also not received prior notification of an upcoming such activity, namely when and where the circumcision will be carried out, and whether the persons concerned who will perform it are specialists with the relevant medical qualification. Answering your questions, specifically from a medical point of view, I would not allow myself to comment on the publicity of the event, but rather on the conditions under which such a ritual action should be carried out, related to damage to the skin, surgical intervention, basically compliance with antiseptic requirements, accumulation of pain and, last but not least, the prevention of psychological trauma of children. Where such manipulation is carried out by medical indication, it shall be classified as medical activities and shall be carried out in medical facilities in accordance with the requirements of medical standards by qualified medical personnel and subject to all requirements relating to the prevention of the risks of possible complications to the physical and mental health of children. Such activity is also paid by the NHIF. After the TV report regarding your inquiry, the Ministry of Health carried out a check on the case, including with regard to the information that the ritual circumcision was carried out by Turkish doctors. The verification found that there was no such request for the issuance of a certificate of recognition of qualification by which medical professionals can exercise their profession in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria or for the residence of scientific exchange of doctors from the Republic of Turkey. It should be noted that all medical professionals fall within the scope of regulated professions in order to be able to exercise their profession as a Member State of the European Union, including in the territory of Bulgaria, of course, must be authorised by the Ministry of Health, issued in compliance with the relevant procedures, which is not available in this case.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u238	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Enchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u239	Mr. Minister, thank you for your reply. I refer immediately to the tribunal of the National Assembly for the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office to intervene, as the following cases have been consumed. The Regional Health Inspectorate in the respective settlement and the Ministry of Health; it has not been verified, as you said, thank you for this information, the medical qualification of Turkish doctors who have committed mass circumcision, and at the stadium in the presence of thousands of people in full violation of all medical standards. On this occasion, I ask: is there a country? If the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office in the face of the Prosecutor General does not intervene, I think that other international institutions should be consulted. Here, I hope for the direct intervention of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, and I immediately respond to it will not work out as elections are coming. On this occasion to tell you that the information I have speaks of mass circumcision of gypsies, which is organized by DPS by Turkish doctors, as it is obvious that it is about election councils in order to take the votes of parents of Bulgarian citizens, of Bulgarian children. In short, religion should not be used for political purposes. That sounds declarative, but in art. 7, para. That's exactly what 2 of the Religious Law says. So I quote you Art. 7 of the Religious Law. And finally, to graduate from a purely medical point of view. I'm looking at Professor Scully's opinion. Brankov, Head of Children's Surgery at Pirogov, who believes there is a risk of infection in such an operation from two to ten percent, and there may be long-term complications. In addition, pain is caused to the baby or to the young child, as newborns according to Prof. Brankov experienced the same degree of pain as older children and adults. Once we have this information and from a medical point of view let me say the opinion of many experts in Bulgaria in this case, if such a thing is to be done at all, the technology of the so-called Diode laser should be used, which is absolutely bloodless. As you can see, we mix medical and political arguments here, but we are talking about the health, the mentality of Bulgarian children who cannot be subjected to such terror by foreign citizens without the sanction of the Bulgarian State, without the sanction of the Ministry of Health, without the sanction of the relevant Directorate for Health. Thank you for your attention and especially for your answer, Mr. Minister. I hope that with your consent and assistance with the documents you will present to me, we will jointly refer to the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria in order to bear responsibility the persons concerned for violation of human rights and for violation of the sovereignty of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u240	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? You don't want to. The next question to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov is from the MPs Manol Genov and Emil Raynov on the measures of the Ministry of Health in the Republic of Bulgaria to ensure the immunization status of Bulgarian children. Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u241	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Minister, a new immunization calendar has been introduced in the country since the beginning of 2015. It is a public secret that for the second year the problems with the supply of vaccines continue, which naturally creates risks for the health and expands the group of unimmunized Bulgarian children. There have been missing supplies of vaccines since the end of 2014 and periodically throughout 2015. A second class of first-graders in the country will now enter the classrooms without being explicitly made by the immunization calendar of the four-valent vaccine. The lack of supplies of vaccines for reimmunization to general practitioners continues to date. Public secret is that general practitioners vaccinate literally with what's left of the refrigerators. Even more worrying is that in an absolutely identical order there is also chaos with the delivery of vaccines to the smallest, where mandatory immunizations at the age of 1.5 years are blocked. Our question to you is: what are the causes of this emergency? Who brings administrative blame for the fact that whole sets of children are at risk of missed reimmunizations and what sanctions will there be for guidance in kindergartens, naturally and for school guides, for taking unvaccinated children?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u242	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u243	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Raynov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, the answer contains its arrangement, fullness and accurate factology, but as far as both of you and the audience are sufficiently familiar with these things, I will try as briefly as possible to get enough time to get into the essence of the matter. Since the entry into force of the new immunization calendar due to a lack of social significant diseases, the Minister of Health Order of 27 August 2014 ordered the primary immunisation in three doses to be carried out with the available four-component vaccine and vaccine against hetatitis C. This happened in August 2014. In view of the unforeseen circumstances, the Ministry of Health sought a legal opportunity to negotiate directly with the sole supplier of hexavalent vaccine included in Appendix No 3 of the Positive List. The delivery was carried out on 3 December 2014, which ended the coverage of those born after 1 June 2014 with a four-component vaccine and hepatitis B vaccine for major immunizations. The four-component vaccine was redirected to reimmunization of the six-year-olds in question. This happened during the office, then was realized by the office, in which I have the honour to participate. In March 2015, the Ministry of Health conducted a public contract for the conclusion of a framework agreement with a deadline of 48 months for the delivery of vaccines for compulsory and targeted immunizations. Due to the absence of a candidate eight out of eighteen separate positions, including four, five and hexavalent vaccines, were discontinued. The only manufacturer of five and six component vaccines stated in writing that he could not provide supplies for the Bulgarian market for 2015 and 2016. The other producer of four, five and six components and anti-seizure vaccine pointed out the severe sanctions that legislation was planning to impose if they did not deliver vaccines according to the needs of the immunization calendar. In the meantime, contracts were concluded and supplies for the required quantities for 2015 for the following primary early childhood vaccines: hepatitis B, pneumococcal infection, tuberculosis, measles, mumps, abatol, as well as against tetanus-diphtheria for adults, KHT vaccine, anti-diphtherine and anti-tetanic serum were carried out. An urgent second procedure under the Public Procurement Act was also carried out in order to buy a clear vaccine because there was practically no such vaccine. It is administered post-expositionally for medical purposes and is lifesaving. In this situation, the Bulgarian government... [[Heckling]] It's not like that. It happens in the second year. In fact, you know very well that each of the last six or seven years Bulgaria is facing some problem related to a certain misunderstanding between the needs of the country and what are the objectives of the respective companies that trade with these vaccines. There's always this kind of problem every year. This Bulgarian government will not allow economic or any racketeering. The government has announced an auction in the way it requires legislation. At this tender the representatives of the two companies for their own reasons did not show up for these positions. In my letters, the answers to my written questions to them, whether they were able to guarantee the immunization calendar, after which the government would provide for appropriate funding for tender procedures, the answers were rather.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this regard, the government has taken appropriate urgent action. Currently there are 100,000 doses of petative vaccine in Bulgaria. It is the same for one of the companies that did not appear for vaccines in the Republic of Turkey. I take the commitment that we will guarantee the remaining about 40,000 needed doses by the end of the year in the immunization calendar. You're a man who's been in the administration, and he'll probably be again. I ask, however, that we do not politicize a question in which the role of the state must be defended and that we do not allow..... whether as MPs or from a position of government, the state and, respectively, the health of the children to be subjected to the lack of pure commercial interests of the companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u244	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Raynov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, everything you say is known, even by the general public. Yes, there have been problems over the years with the delivery of vaccines, but we are in a slightly different situation right now. When there is a problem with vaccines, it is somehow not a good morning for us to talk about the new flu vaccines that we need to buy, and we need to solve these problems, because the particular thing about other such situations in the past is that there are already refugees entering Bulgaria, coming from countries where you are not sure how the immunization calendar is respected. Therefore, there are prerequisites for possible problems in Bulgaria precisely for this reason. That is why the question was asked: to mark, to sharpen attention, so that situations related to the refugee flow are not allowed, where there are no guarantees of what their status is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u246	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. Mr. Minister, you're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u247	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Dr. Raynov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With all due cause of both the doctor and the parliamentarians, you ask the question. I can assure you that, if you like, we can do a check together in refugee temporary housing camps that regional health inspections there carry out samplings on all relevant regions where the relevant immigrants, disease research come from. They are vaccinated, immunized and only after that are in contact with the Bulgarian population. Where the state can cover this contingent, we are not talking about refugees illegally staying in Bulgaria, we are making every effort. I don't think we've had any passes so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-25.u248	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the last question for you. We wish you a good job! My fellow Members, due to the exhaustion of the agenda items for today's sitting, I am closing the meeting. The next plenary session of the National Assembly is on 29 September 2015, Tuesday, at 11:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
