ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u1	Hey, guys, good morning! Please register. There is a quorum - I am opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] At the end of yesterday's plenary day we started FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAWS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ROAD CODE [[importers: Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, 27.10.2014, Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, 27.10.2014, Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, 27.10.2014, Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, 27.10.2014, Petar Kanev and a group of MPs, 06.02.2015, Petar Slavov and a group of MPs, 01.04.2015, Council of Ministers, 22.05.2015]] . The debates were opened following the presentation of the bills. We are now continuing the debate on them. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Mrs. Mariana Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'll deal with some of the bills. First of all, I will express ABB's support for the bill proposed by the Council of Ministers, as it regulates some gaps in labour law. This is the introduction of temporary and day-to-day contracts. It is known that many people are employed in agricultural activities for a short period of time, but their pay remains outside the labour market because it is not officialised and people lose their rights to be compensated for unemployment and receive other social benefits. The current bill proposes that people employed under these day-to-day or temporary contracts retain these rights and thus outside the grey sector, in the light of this, according to the Association of Farmers will come out between 60 and 100 thousand people. In addition to not losing their unemployment rights, receiving energy aid and other social benefits, these people will have an internship, they will have insurance that will also be health insurance in a work accident, so we consider this solution to be really quite appropriate. Next, the Bill proposes employers to keep workers' employment records. This will be a step towards introducing electronic labour books. This bill also proposes introducing flexible working hours. Employers don't lose anything. Again, the work week will be 40 hours, there will be mandatory hours to attend, but the rest of the time workers will be able to allocate according to their commitments. This will be a particularly appropriate option for young mothers who have a commitment to their children and other people. It is also arranged for unpaid and creative leave to be taken into account as work experience. This is also particularly important in the context of pension reforms. And last but not least, motherhood is equalized after a third child. It's a year and a half now. It's gonna be two years now. This encourages responsible parenting and equal treatment of children. As for the proposal of BSP left Bulgaria, we will support this bill as there was a consensus in the Social Commission. We believe that with changes made between first and second readings, the two bills proposed by the Council of Ministers and this bill can be combined and supplemented. I will take account of what Peter Slavov and a group of MPs propose. My arguments will be beyond the recognition of May 1 as the celebration of the April Uprising will be beyond whether it is distinguished 1 May as Labor Day, and beyond the fact that in a new style the celebration should be on May 2 as my arguments will be beyond the political conjuncture. I want them to sound objective and true. First of all, we cannot unify an historic process in one date, as the celebrations start from April 20 and are up to May 2-3. If we set such a precedent, we must also do so for the celebrations of some other holidays and other events. What if we want to unify the Ilinden-Preobraise uprising? With such a solution, we will set a precedent and I do not think that it is in the political competence to solve problems and there are discussions on which historians should rule. There is another argument that the April Uprising is celebrating and marking an event in which we have given many sacrifices, and if we recognize it for a holiday there is a discrepancy from an aesthetic-moral point of view. We celebrate and mark, but we cannot celebrate, so the ABB will not support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Svetlana Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I will start with the Bill of Petar Kanev and a group of MPs. Under § 1 regarding an increase in the period from 3 to 7 days for sending the notification to the NRA for the conclusion and amendment of a contract of employment, we of the Parliamentary Group of GERB are not inclined to support this text, since it is extended the period within which the worker must enter into work and without having received a contract of employment or signed a notification under art. 62 of the Labor Code. The extension of this period from 3 to 7 days artificially takes the time away from the time of entry to work at a time when the worker will be provided and his work and insurance service will begin. According to § 2 of Mr. Kanev's Bill, importers propose that the timetable for holidays be removed on the grounds that it is not a working text. On the contrary, since this text was introduced three years ago, I would say that it grants rights and guarantees the right to leave the worker and the employee. From another point of view, the employer can also be calm and knows when each worker has planned his paid annual leave, so we do not consider dropping this text in the Labour Code to bring any benefits to the worker and employee or the employer himself. This text, which was introduced three years ago, aimed to discipline both the worker and the employer and not to accumulate holidays. Next, the employer's requirement to develop and establish rules for ensuring health and safety at work, on the grounds that this is governed by the Health and Safety Conditions Act, is a matter for us to support this proposal. In relation to the change in art. 328, para. 1 of the Labour Code, namely the return of the previous text under point 1. 10 The employer may have the opportunity to terminate the employment of the worker or employee when acquiring the right to a pension for internship and age, and for professors, doctors and doctors of science at the age of 65, we support the proposal. This change will uniformise the level playing field between employees who are in employment and those who are in the service, as at the moment, for civil servants working in the service, there is no such text, and next, this measure would also open jobs for young people. Under § 5 it is proposed to waive the protection of dismissal in cases of disciplinary dismissal. What's this about? In cases where the employer has imposed disciplinary dismissal of the worker, the employer can be fired only with prior permission from the Labour Inspection. You are proposing that the employer be denied the opportunity to request prior permission from the Labour Inspectorate to release the worker. Employers are, of course, about adopting this text because it will untie their hands not to ask permission from the Labour Inspection and can easily fire workers. But what happens in the case of the worker and who protects his rights? If we accept this text, there is a risk that employers will start mass-leasing disciplinaryly, and the only way for the worker to defend himself in this case, if the text is removed, is to conduct cases under the GPC, and these cases, we all know, are conducted for a minimum of 2 years. Under § 6 of the importers, the provisions of art. Art. 136a. 138 of the Labour Code to drop out, concerning the extension of working hours and the introduction of part-time by the employer, not to apply to micro-enterprises, small firms. We are against this text. This automatically means that workers who work in small businesses will not have the legal protection they need and will not be able to benefit from part-time and extension. The removal of these texts will also cause a discriminatory element for those who work in small and medium-sized enterprises, which in turn is a prerequisite to refer to the relevant institutions, to declare these texts unconstitutional. The practice shows that from the introduction of part-time and extension of working hours benefit not only large companies and enterprises in Bulgaria, they also benefit from employers who have small companies. With regard to the last proposal in the Draft Law of Petar Kanev, we are strongly opposed to, namely, dropping the Rules of Internal Labour in micro-enterprises and small enterprises. Its dismissal will raise a number of questions related to working time, to the control of its compliance, because all this is set out in the Rules of Internal Labour and thus with these Rules, however, the worker or the employee has some work protection. Next, I will take very brief consideration of the Bill of Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. They offer an addition to art. 154, para. 1 of the Labour Code, namely the date 1 May to be celebrated except as International Labor Day and a day marking the anniversary of the outbreak of the April Uprising. It is undeniable that this is a historic event of great importance in Bulgarian history, but every historically marked date cannot be transferred to the Labour Code, to mark or celebrate and to become a day off. Next, it is extremely important to note that the anniversary of the April Uprising is 2 May and not 1 May, so it is difficult to move this anniversary from 2 May to 1 May. We have all studied and we know that the historic date on which the April Uprising broke out is April 20, 1876, according to a new style according to the Gregorian calendar is the 2nd of May. The difference between the Julian calendar and the Gregorian calendar is 12 days, meaning the corresponding date of April 20 in old style is exactly 2 May in a new style, and if we really have to mark this date, it should be 2 and not 1, as the importers suggest. We can't change the dates of historical events and rewrite a new story. These are valid reasons why we should not support the Bill of Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. And with regard to the Law of the Council of Ministers, we fully support it. The most important change, as the previous one said, is the possibility to conclude employment contracts for one day with a view to the need to regulate short-term seasonal agricultural work. This is an idea of Associations of Farmers. At the moment, in agriculture, especially in plant farming, there is a large shortage of labour to harvest and the introduction of these day-to-day contracts will help to recover it. Also, according to the Associations of farmers in the light will be able to come out and work between 60 thousand and 100 thousand people employed in agriculture, as they will work completely legally, the employer will pay them social and health insurance. The time for which they will work will be considered as an internship, will not be considered as an internship and will be provided for the Fund for the Fund for Employment accident and professional sickness, so we support the Law of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u5	Replices, coworkers? Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! I will express my concern for some of the projects that have been tabled as an amendment and an addition to the Labour Code. I will start with the Law No 554-01-67 of Petar Vladislavov and a group of MPs. Dear importers, respected reformers, no matter how much you hide behind decent, patriotic and patriotic motives, your goals are transparent and clear. [[SPEAKING SPANISH]] . The goals of neglecting Labor Day May 1st, but to pay attention to you - May 1st is not a communist holiday, May 1st is not a holiday of BSP, although the BSP celebrates it and marks it properly every year. We celebrate it because BSP is a left-wing party and as such is responsible for hope and the fight for justice. [[Strong noise, lines and excitement in GERB.]] This responsibility means providing reliable protection for the people of labor, for the poor and for the abandoned [[GERB noise and lines]] , the employees, to work for the formation of a broad middle class and for the progress of all. That's why we're celebrating it, gentlemen. And the party's holiday is August 2nd. The day of its founding in 1981.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u7	Mr. Gokov, I'm asking you by the Labor Code. We know the history of the party. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u8	Here you are, gentlemen, on August 2nd with us on Buzludja. [[Applause from GERB.]] And if you can think, in a new style, April 20th...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u9	I would like to officially remind you that you are deviating from the subject, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u10	You won't let me get into it. [[Laughter at GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u11	If you question my reminder, there is an article. 155, p. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u12	If you know how to think, April 20, a new style, the day of the April Uprising, falls on May 2nd, not May 1st. Old and new style, you know, Julian and Gregorian calendar. Pope Gregory XIII imposed him in 1852. In Bulgaria he entered 1916. It is clear that with your proposal you have decided to irritate BSP, but in this case BSP is your little problem. You irritate millions of people, and not only in Bulgaria, but also in the world, who earn their living and who celebrate this holiday for more than 100 years. May 1st is International Labor Day in Europe as well. In the Old Continent it is not only celebrated in two countries. The annoying and the trade unions who strongly and emotionally opposed your proposal with their opinions and speeches. The April Uprising is the peak of the Bulgarian national liberation movement during the Renaissance era. The April Uprising broke out on April 20, 1876, May 2, in a new style. His task is to win Bulgaria's independence from the Ottoman Empire. Therefore, it is an important date for anyone who considers himself a Bulgarian. Therefore everyone carries it in their heart and does not need any pseudopatriot to record it in the laws of the country to recognize it and celebrate it the Bulgarian. If you really wanted to take care of the April Uprising, you would have offered April 20, not May 1st. Aren't you tired of 45 years celebrating the Great October Revolution on November 7th?! Do you know how many holidays there are that we Bulgarians celebrate and are not recorded in the Labour Code or in any other law?! So, gentlemen of the Bulgarian Parliament, get out on the stand and withdraw this bill so that you do not force the Bulgarian Parliament's MPs to vote against the Bulgarian Parliament or abstention for something that every Bulgarian brings in his heart and soul. So much for this bill. According to the four laws of the colleagues from "Attack" "Volen Siderov" and a group of MPs who, by the way, were introduced on 27 October 2014, and now they have their turn. I will support the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code with No 454-01-20 where the creation of para is proposed. 4 in art. 222 for the payment of benefits to workers or employees who hold a pedagogical position in the field of education, upon termination of the employment relationship due to retirement, the same shall be entitled to compensation from the employer in the amount of their gross wage for as many months as the years of their pedagogical service they have acquired. I will support this because, indeed, in Bulgarian history, the profession of teachers has never been so reduced as payment and as material conditions of work and as prestige in society. I will support it, even though it sounds a little populist to me, and I am sure that the Bill of colleagues from "Attack" far surpasses the original idea of trade unions. I am referring to the Union of Teachers in Bulgaria in this direction. I also support it with the clear awareness that we need to be aware that from now on, other terms can also be asked for such privileges with a change of the Labour Code. The other draft law No 454-01-19 will not support it. A minimum wage and related additional payments are proposed to be fixed by the Council of Ministers, which, by the way, is now the case, and which is not less than the average minimum wage for the Member States of the European Union. I will not support it not because the incomes of the Bulgarians should not be raised, but we will not reveal any secret that the incomes of the Bulgarians are miserable and it is imperative to bring them to the level of labour productivity. I will not talk about the poor working term, which seems to be invented precisely for the Bulgarians who are exploited, work in many cases in violation of the Labour Code and receive such salaries, with which they can barely make ends meet. I am tired of the statement and the suggestion that Bulgaria has a lower productivity of labour than other European countries. Probably partly this is true, but it is true that in Bulgaria the share of labour pay relative to labour productivity is at least twice lower than the share in the same European countries. I will not support it, because in this form the proposal is not feasible, unrealistic and non-working, which does not mean that hard work is not needed in this direction. I call on all of you who are ruling, and we as opposition, to go unanimously in the direction of increasing the incomes of Bulgarian citizens and to do everything possible for this increase. I will support the third Draft Law No 454-01-16 to ensure the payment of the wage. I have carefully read the Bill and the reasons, and I have read the opinion of stakeholders, including the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I agree with the arguments and motives of the importers and those who oppose the proposal. I am aware that the Labour Code regulates the employer's obligations as a party to the employment relationship and not as the owner of the company or organisation. But at the same time, I would like us to take some action in this direction, because sometimes there is an injustice on the part of employers. I don't put them all under a common denominator, but there are times when employees wait so long to get their paychecks that it's not normal. I will refrain from examples, but I can't help but mention "Remotex" "Radnevo," and the hospital in Raduntsi, where they haven't received salaries for years. That's why I'm inclined to support him even as he is, although we have to say that to the newly created art. 362a doesn't belong here at all, but rather in the Civil Procedure Code. Again, we need to start this discussion, we need to take some steps in this direction. That is why I will support this bill. I will not support Act No 454-01-5. Otherwise, the motives are wonderful. I also wish that the Bulgarian worker would be protected and have an advantage over everyone else, but provided that we violate such basic texts of the Treaty of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will not read art. Art. 10 and art. 18 of the consolidated texts of the Treaty on European Union. This is discrimination, and there is no way to support it. Otherwise, I say again, the motives are wonderful. By the way, guaranteeing the right to work and the advantage of Bulgarian citizens in Bulgaria is a fact, guaranteed by other legal norms, not so discriminatory, where the employer, who wants to appoint a foreigner to work in Bulgaria, goes through dozens of conditions. In this way the Bulgarian worker in Bulgaria is largely protected. I can also mention the special Employment Promotion Act, where restrictions are introduced on the employment of foreigners in cases where the labour market requires it. I will not comment on the other bills, but for the last time I will draw attention to our bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 554-01-24, which I presented to you yesterday. Let us hold the discussion, honourable Members, so that we can form before the second vote such proposals, which will ensure the facilitation of the business conditions of micro-enterprises and small businesses and make them more competitive, reduce the corruption pressure on business, and at the same time very important, I stress it once again, not to harm the people of employment and not to be deprived of rights. With interest, I expect reasonable proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u13	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? Here's your first line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Gokov, I can't hide that the Reformation Block is flattered that you started with our Bill and spent almost as much time on it as everyone else combined. It's also kind of funny because there's a fairy tale, the people said it. If you open the transcript from yesterday and look, none of us, including myself, when I presented the bill, did not say that the International Labor Day was a communist holiday. That you interpret it that way is something very sad. I hope you don't celebrate it that way, because every year you spend a lot of time on it. I'd like to draw your attention to a few things you might have in mind. First of all, 140 years of the April Uprising will be celebrated next year. This is really a good reason to show the Bulgarian citizens that in the Labour Code, this National Assembly, apart from dealing with employment relations, which are undoubtedly important, finds time and to pay attention to these important dates in our history, which make us Bulgarians and which should unite us and not divide us. That is why we have proposed this day to be celebrated on May 1st, as we have written in the Bill "It is an anniversary, it is not about the exact date of the marking. Over the years different people, different Bulgarian communities celebrate it differently in old style, in new style and so on. However, it had to be celebrated permanently on May 1st as a day for reenactment and at all for marking. There is no problem to combine two celebrations in one day. I will immediately give you an example with 24 May "We celebrate the celebration of Bulgarian education and culture and Slavic writing, so there is no problem. That's absolutely permissible. [[BSP LB.]] If it is so important to you who will be the first person mentioned in the Labour Code. "Whether it will be the April Uprising or International Labor Day, look at the least chronology of events. See which event first and put it first. If it is not enough that you are Bulgarians, you must be more patriots than socialists, communists or whatever you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u15	Second line? Mr. Gyokov, you have the opportunity for a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Slavov, it is nice to introduce laws from time to time - banter, as I consider your bill. You are saying that you have not mentioned anywhere about the whole Chamber, and the people in Bulgaria are not clear what you are doing with this Bill. You just want to mess with the Bulgarian Socialist Party, its traditional celebration on May 1st. It's not good for you to do it! The April Uprising will have to repeat it thousands of times. Every Bulgarian carries it in his heart. The April Uprising is the peak of our national liberation movement. You can't pretend to be a bigger patriot than me or anyone else in this room, or in Bulgaria, and say, "We are patriots and therefore we will record the April Uprising in the Labour Code." The Bulgarian has dozens of holidays, not to say more, which are not written in the Labour Code, but wears them in his heart and celebrates them. So in no way will the 140th anniversary of the April Uprising be neglected. The Bulgarians will celebrate it again. That the tradition of celebrating and re-enacting on May 1st and so on in our new history is more related to the fact that May 1st is a day off than to some beginning of the April Uprising. No matter how much we think about them, and as much as you'd like April 20 to match old style with May 1 in a new style, it's not going to happen. No matter how we spin it, it always falls on May 2nd. These are my answers to your line. The April Uprising is the April Uprising! All Bulgarians will celebrate it, we will carry it in our heart. Let us not involve politics in the holidays of the Bulgarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u17	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Ermenkov, the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u18	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because I believe that you have interrupted several times Mr. Gokov. In his speech, he tried to argue why we are against changing the feast. In the defense of a thesis can be used primos such as allusion, hyperbola, comparison. There is no insult to the Council of Ministers, no insult to ministers, no insult to the National Assembly. In my opinion, you just had to wait thirty seconds to see the meaning that he put into these comparisons to understand that everything was within the context of the speech within the topic. There's nothing coming out of it. I believe that what you have done is unacceptable, all the more so that you have tolerated the replicator who entered the same explanatory regime without interrupting it. Please, let's not do any such disorder of order another time, even though you're upstairs as chairman. As for the fact that you know the history of the party, we have no doubt. Although you have disowned her, she is deeply your past, so don't be shy. Say, "Yes, that was our story too. " - Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u19	Mrs. Tasheva, you have an opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u20	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, yesterday the leader of our party Volen Siderov presented the reasons for our package of draft laws amending and supplementing the Labour Code. I have a pleasant duty at the moment to shed some light on certain moments that need to be addressed. First, in the past, the National Assembly introduced a bill for amendment of art. 222 of the Labour Code, so that in retirement teachers will receive salaries for as many months as they have worked in the education system for years. He could not reach the plenary, but we have satisfaction because he exercised pressure and a little later a month later, thanks to the support of the trade unions that our bill received, a collective employment contract was signed, which increased the compensation of teachers, which until then received 6 salaries, raised this compensation to 8 salaries. That is, even if this were the only effect of the Bill, we could have satisfaction. However, we are not satisfied because the profession of the teacher, entrusted with an extremely important mission, which directly correlated with Bulgaria's national security in an age of already 30-year-old emerging demographic potential of our nation and unheard in our history of deprofessionalisation, the mission of the teacher is extremely important. That's why we're bringing the bill back in. I would like to remind Mrs. Milena Damyanova that when this bill was discussed in the relevant Commission, objections of the type were raised against him and yesterday were read here We have serious objections to these arguments. Firstly, we propose that retirement compensation be started next year, that is to say, in the budget for next year. Secondly, yes, only the increase in compensation cannot make it attractive enough... Let's start somewhere, take the first step towards making the teaching profession desirable and prestigious again. Let's give her back the prestige she deserves. I hear from Mrs. Damyanova that in the Bill she prepared and which, by the way, is a bad copy of our Bill, she has written that the teacher should be respected. Come on, give real reasons, show that you respect teachers. With texts in the Law you cannot make their profession respectable. Why did I say her bill was a bad copy? Because shortly after passing our Bill, she submitted a bill that amends the same article by raising the teacher's compensation for the retirement of 10 salaries. I'm sorry, this bill cannot protect the teaching profession for the simple reason that it does not create an incentive to keep the staff in the education system. He who worked for ten years in the education system will receive ten salaries on retirement; he who worked for twenty years and he ten salaries; he who worked thirty years and he ten wages. I'm gonna finish this bill. I would also like to draw attention to the other of the four that we are bringing in to amend and supplement the Labour Code. The bill with which we want to correct art. 245 "An absolute lobbyist text that gives the employer the right to pay only 60% of the salary that is signed in the employment contract with the employee or worker. Then why are we writing labor contracts? No matter how much workers protest, strikes raise, turn to the media, comes the Labour Inspectorate, finds that the employer has paid 60% of the due compensation and decides that it is within the framework of the Law. She can't even sanction him. 40% of the employer's obligations to his workers are accumulated each month. For 2013, this amount amounted to 89 million. lv. Imagine the Bulgarian worker, the poorest worker in the European Union, has credited his employers with 89 million. lv. I thank Mr. Gokov, who said he would support this Bill, although he disagrees with the proposed by us art. 362a. Okay, Mr. Gokov, don't support Art. 362a, vote against it, but support the first paragraph of our Amendment and Supplement Bill (CID) in which we want to ensure that the worker receives the remuneration agreed in his employment contract. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tasheva. - What's the line? There are no lines. For a personal explanation Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u22	Mr President, honourable Members, as my name has been mentioned many times, I am obliged to clarify that the examination of the Pre-school and School Education Bill in this House is coming up, so we will have the opportunity to debate each particular text. Secondly, this bill is not mine. Below it was signed a large part of colleagues from GERB Parliamentary Group. It was submitted by the Council of Ministers in the previous term of Mr. Borisov and has been served by many teachers, principals of schools, representatives of municipalities, parents, NGOs and various other institutions, so it is a common work and I ask that it be appreciated. Thirdly, I do not know why you are addressing me, but ultimately not only Mrs Damyanova voted in the Committee on Education and Science. There are 19 other Commissioners there, so you can follow the vote in the Commission and see how who voted and how it relates. Fourth, it is very nice what is said.. the attitude towards the teacher, the respect for him, how we will win it. I think that indeed the other day, unanimously in the Commission, we adopted texts that are also realistic in terms of respect for teachers with internship, but what we need to think about is how to hold and actually attract young people to this profession. This, again, is happening with a slightly different measure, which in a deliberate discussion on the Education Bill we will have the opportunity to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Mr. Petar Kanev for speaking. After Mr. Petar Kanev are the MPs Ademov, Bajraktarov, Rumen Hristov and Ilian Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u24	Dear colleagues, from what I have said so far, the main thing I have understood is that 1 May is 2 May and 2 May is 1 May. I would like to take a closer look at the proposals that have been signed by me and a group of MPs, as they are dealing with an eternal topic, as we discussed with Mr. Ademov just now. That's the demand for balance sheet capital work. A subject on which I had the opportunity to speak several times. I would prefer on this topic to talk about people who have some bearing on both labour and capital, and mainly on the topic of work relations and employers' problems to take on people who, however, once in life, have paid at least one salary. This topic should be handled more carefully. What are my suggestions? I am somewhat surprised by the positive response to many of the proposals, for which I thank you. It was no accident that they were accepted at first reading in both committees. I know very well that there are delicate topics in both the holidays and related to the rights of employers and workers. I very much trust that between first and second reading Mr. Ademov, as one of the best specialists in this Chamber, will help us find this balance in the working relationship. I would like to share a few words on the topic "Micro ", as this was commented on a proposal of mine. If you look at the National Statistics data from a year ago, you'll see something quite disturbing, but at first glance it is. Of around 350 Bulgarian companies still working, 324 thousand of them are the so-called microsynchronous companies. One of the European Union's standards of micro enterprise is up to nine people. What does it turn out to be? These 324,000 companies employ 620,000 people. By the way, micro companies in Bulgaria are 94% of all Bulgarian companies. So we have an average of 1.8 working people in a microprint. You understand that this is the backbone of the Bulgarian family business. These are the restaurants, these are the traps, these are the garages, the home hotels. Now, answer me, please, 600 thousand people work in these companies on average 1.8, usually male and female. What Rules of Procedure, what Rules of Employment Organisation? It's pretty clear the woman's taking it. What rules for the organization of working hours, the internal order? You understand, the Bulgarian business is overgrown with nonsense and ridiculous nonsense. I'm trying to get your attention because the next number is small businesses. It's 24,000 that employ around 400,000 people. There, too, we are far from the European Union's criteria. But if I suggest something, it's really only about micro-enterprises. Let's help them! I don't know any of you here, there's a lot of people in the business, did he ask his TRS, as they used to call it, to see when he gets a job security detail, what kind of documents he wants? It's a file like this. [[shows]] , 29 documents, 150 pages. For micro companies only, that's 50 million pages. You understand that a micro firm of two people... Let's at least free them from this burden. You have the check and there are only two questions, i.e. one question and two answers: "Well, now what are we doing? " [[shows]] , or: Call this phone to make you a copy of the documents. We're adopting some wonderful laws, but when it comes to their application, things go in completely different directions. I'm trying to clear the laws that prevent us from working properly. We're actually in the way. A few words on what is actually a business environment, because this is one of the things I want to discuss today with the Labour and Business Environment Code. The business environment is that Bulgaria is working at least in the European Union........................................................................................... two years ago. When you gather together the holidays with the holidays, with the sick and with all the other Saturdays and Sundays, you get a fatal figure. How much are we studying? About a year ago, a World Bank study of Bulgarian children studied at least in Europe. How sick are we? The most in Europe. From now on, I just want to turn our attention to a few things that I'm going to be putting all the time anyway. In order to have a strong social policy, in order to have good results in the fissure, in order to have a collection, there must still be a working economy, there must be a business environment. At least give what's up to us to help them! Remove the vacation schedule! That's the stupidest thing I've ever heard of! Get rid of it, because it's 350 thousand companies that write a few times a year, pound to come someone and turn out that this schedule is not relevant at all. It's a food environment, it's a food chain. Take it away, no one needs it! Why did Simeon Djankov accept it, that's another topic. I don't want to go back, yesterday with colleagues from GERB we commented Retirement, disability, the work of the telks, fee, third parliament I put it, fifth government or I don't know what it is anymore, and we can't solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u25	There is no fee in the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u26	The fee is very important.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u27	Right, but it's not... [[Comments from GERB and DPS.]] There is no fee in this project!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u28	It's not in the Bill, but it's very important, understand it! There are many things that are not in this bill. Yes, they're gone, ma'am, I know. But, you see, we have to do something to help. We can't go on like this. What, I don't know about working medicine how to do the exams? It's not in the Bill, yes, but we don't know that. We don't know that the stamps are hit and the money is taken. I stop here, the subject is very long, we have an interesting bill, it is not absolute, many things in it can be touched, can be fixed. You also have our entire parliamentary group's positive attitude. We will be mobile, flexible so as to protect the interests of Bulgarian citizens, to find this balance of work - capital - because, again, I will quote Joseph Stieglitz: "Inequality is a threat to democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Dear colleagues, you have the floor for lines if you have such a desire, of course. There are no lines. The next speech is from the MP Hasan Ademov. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At our attention are seven projects for changes in the Labour Code and this is no accident, as labour legislation is extremely dynamic, and despite the fact that in 2007, Bulgaria harmonises all its texts in the Labour Code with European legislation, there is a constant need to have changes in labour legislation to ensure, on the one hand, the balance between labour and capital, as Mr. Kanev expressed just now, and, on the other hand, to guarantee the rights of workers and employees and to ensure, of course, European standards in compliance with these rights. I am relieved by the fact that on yesterday and today in the discussion that is being held, a large part of the projects were discussed. I will try to stop your attention on just two of them.. the proposal of the Council of Ministers, which introduces a new legal figure in the labour law of Bulgaria. This is the regulation of the so-called seasonal agricultural work through the introduction of the so-called single-day contracts. Dear colleagues, this is an extremely valuable asset for those who are working seasonally, I am talking about employers, because within an extremely short period of time they need labour, which, notice, to be with reserved employment and social security rights, as to date this seasonal work is being done in practice by people who are in the gray sector. On a proposal from the industry sectors in the sector "Employment" is now proposed by the end of the year in the Labour Code to arrange for the day-to-day employment contracts, which practically concern a limited segment of the sector "Employment" - namely fruits, vegetables and rosebuds. It is about a pilot project that will be assessed at the end of the year and based on the analysis to be carried out will eventually be set to expand this segment so that other sectors of the so-called day-to-day labour contracts can benefit eventually. Of course, there are several facilities for employers, which are in the direction of not sending notifications to the National Revenue Agency for the concluded one-day work contract, no job description is given, no order for termination of work at the end of the day shall be issued, those who shall, of course, make it the employer in advance, for the Fund However, there are several problems related to the introduction of these contracts. First of all, these 90 days by the end of the year are part of the problem, because within 90 days hardly these sectors of fruit, vegetables and pink color will be able to respond to an objective analysis, because in practice a large part of this campaign is already about finalisation. So perhaps between first and second readings we should think about, moreover, that there is already huge pressure from other branch organisations, how to expand the field applied to this pilot project, so that at the end of the year we can have a clear idea of what we have done and what we have failed to do. Dear colleagues, this group of Bulgarian citizens will not be deprived of money compensation for unemployment. They will have the right to use the full range of intermediary services under the Employment Promotion Act, but there remains a very important issue: these people to be motivated, say they are between 60 and 100 thousand. the person to participate with these day-to-day contracts in the harvesting of the agricultural harvest, because there is a fear over the years that if they register or have any labour relations, then they will be suspended from social payments. In order to dispel this doubt, there must be an extremely serious information campaign in order not to dominate this fear of stopping social payments. The next changes, which are extremely important, in the draft of the Council of Ministers is the proposed change in art. 139 on the establishment of variable limit working hours or so-called flexible working hours. The idea of the proposed project is to be flexible, if I can use this word, weekly working hours, and in fact the way the texts are proposed, it is about flexibility of the working day. And the flexibility of the working day has long been cleared in Bulgarian labour legislation by the introduction of the so-called working hours and all other measures related to the flexibility of the working day. In other words, it is extremely important for the worker to have the initiative to bet in shaping the working day so-called co-operation of employment and family obligations, as he knows the specifics of his and his family's needs for such flexible working hours. If it is the employer who has the initiative, then there may be abuse of total working hours, there may be abuse of working hours within the week and so on. In other words, these are issues that could be cleared between first and second reading with the social partners and fellow Members. Another important change is the proposal to settle additional paid leave for mothers with more than three children. Now they are entitled, unlike everyone else, to leave for child care until the age of two, six months. The current proposal is to align the regime of those who have up to three children and those who have more than three children. This is a levelling of rights and eliminating the possibility of admitting discrimination. I would also like to say a few words on Mr. Peter Kanev's project. In seven paragraphs, he proposed the resolution of part of the eternal disputes between the labor and the capital and, as he said, between employers, workers and employees at the expense of employers, which caused a natural negative reaction of trade unions in the face of part of the social partners. In this regard, I would like to return, if I may, Mr. Chairman, with just one sentence to the draft Council of Ministers. There is a very important proposal that I missed, and that is when there is an agreement on individual topics between the social partners in the face of employers and trade unions, the state is the one that is committed to moving the texts of this agreement into the Bulgarian legislation, and vice versa when the state assigns to the social partners in the face of employers and trade unions the preparation of an agreement on individual topics, then employers and trade unions will have the desire to conclude such an agreement, which will facilitate the state in the introduction of labour standards. I'm now returning to Mr. Peter Kanev's project. These seven proposals contain part of the conflict between employer workers and employees, but based on the thesis which Mr. Kanev developed here that employers are the ones who create jobs, especially those in small and medium-sized enterprises, they are the ones that guarantee added value and contribution to the growth of gross domestic product every year, we must comply with some of the proposals, not all of them, with those that cause us conflicts. I would like to start with the first proposal and it is for an extension of the period for registration of the concluded employment contract from 3 to 7 days. Dear colleagues, this period of 3 days exists in labour law because, in order to be able to start the labour-legal attitude in order to be able to start the employment and social security rights of the worker and the employee, he must have a copy of the contract from the National Revenue Agency and a copy of the employment contract. And if the start of the work and insurance service is postponed by a few days, that means that he loses some of his employment and social security rights. This is not a drama if labour law is respected and employers are correct, and in the first days they send the notification to the National Revenue Agency there will be no problem, that is, the question is how correct Bulgarian employers are, not how correct the labour law in this part is. Next, the famous question about the vacation schedule. You know that in July 2010, if I am not mistaken, this schedule was introduced in connection with accumulated old debts. Dear colleagues, it is very important here not to remove part of the texts, as Mr. Kanev suggests, but to remove at all all all this structure, which regulates the timetable for the holidays, because if we remove some of the texts, then we create conditions for violation of the constitutional right to use the leave, because, on the one hand, the schedules are removed and on the other hand, the limitation period of 2 years stands. That is, if we remove all this construction, then we will rely on the goodwill of employers, workers and employees to take leave so that they do not accumulate. Next, the text that restores art. 328, para. 1, t. 10 of the Labour Code, where this text is being restored, had it a few years ago in the Labour Code of the employer to terminate the employment relationship on the basis of termination of the insurance service, i.e. the acquisition of a pension right. The employer may terminate, without notice, the employment contract of the worker or employee who acquires the right to a pension on that basis. This has been introduced in the service relations of the Civil Service Act, it is now proposed that this should be dropped so that those who are younger can be given the opportunity. Here we have a very interesting conflict on the one hand, the European Commission in all recommendations to the National Development Program of Bulgaria advises us to extend our stay in the labour market, our legislation prolongs what we are about to look at now in the Social Security Code. Our legislation also gives bonuses when you stay after the retirement age, and suddenly we say to the employer:........................................................... These are some of the texts which, if I may use the more correct term, are insufficiently justified, because there are arguments in one and the other direction - a matter of decision by the National Assembly. There is one topic that relates to a principle issue concerning the philosophy of labour law.................................................................................................... Can one who works in a small and medium-sized enterprise for having the chance to work in such an enterprise to have another type of labour rights than one who works in a larger enterprise? This is part of the big problem that is offered in Articles 136a, 138a and 181, if I am not mistaken in the text. What's this about? It is proposed in small and medium-sized enterprises that the obligation to make prior written notification to the General Labour Inspection, to regional units at extended working hours, that is, under current legislation, if the employer wants to extend working hours, must notify the Labour Inspection in writing. Now it is proposed that this remain for large enterprises and for small ones to be removed. You do understand that it makes sense in one direction and the other? It is a matter of decision if we want to help the business if we want it to have no additional administrative burden, but at the same time we need to be aware that the Bulgarian business is sufficiently Europeanized to comply with European labour standards. This is the big discussion about this topic. The next question is art. 138a "Preliminary coordination in case of temporary suspension of reduced working hours. Where the employer wants for production or other reasons to establish reduced working hours, he shall be obliged to consult this idea with the social partners in the undertaking as far as they exist or their representatives. That's the big problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u31	Time! Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u32	If you wish, you can request a time extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u33	Yes, you can extend the time. I am graduating, Mr. President, in the hope that these two projects of the Council of Ministers and of Petar Kanev can find the intersections in the interests of employers, employees and employees, on the one hand, to respect the labour standards, on the other hand, not to prevent business from developing its activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Your speech was a wonderful illustration of how the right to speak is exercised correctly by a Member of the National Assembly, namely the right to speak. You haven't strayed from the subject once. An excellent example of how to exercise rights by a Member of the National Assembly. Do you have any lines, fellow Members? I won't. To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, after this wonderful example of speech, it is right for me to do my best. Let me start on the relevant topics. Firstly, I would like to say that we from the Patriotic Front will strongly support the submitted Bill by the National Representative Petar Kanev. Why would we support him? Because this may be the only bill in this area that has been tabled in the last eight months, with so much meaning and so much real action in it. Shortly before, the speaker explained the rights, the violation of the Constitution, for consultations with the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. However, he failed to note an important detail that the bill submitted by colleague Petar Kanev concerns the small and small business in the first place.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u36	Just three lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u37	Imagine a pavilion of a single merchant, where the husband and wife work. Can they create a structure of "Support" or of the CST, and how to consult each other?! It's just untenable. Look, colleagues, these texts in the Labour Code have long been known to be dead and non-working texts. Moreover, when it comes to the so-called Internal Rules, it is clear to everyone here who has been in the real sector that these were rules, but not to ease the work of small and medium businesses, but to the contrary, to make people think of rules, for example, between me and my wife. Well, it's clear that if I can't come, my wife will come, because otherwise we'll go bankrupt and we won't be able to support our family. Planning vacations. I mean, for years, there's been an incredible consensus here, both on the part of employers and workers. No one needs this planning! I'll give an example. Imagine that you have a hotel on Sunny Beach and the worker wants to leave in August. Only the month of August is the season. Of course, the employer won't agree. The two of them have to coordinate the vacation, but they don't understand. What's next?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u38	There's text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u39	What's next? ▪ Absolutely nothing follows! Neither can you impose a sanction, nor can you oblige the employer and the worker to agree, because this is the time, as said colleague Kanev, when the economy must work, collect revenue and fill the treasury. It's nonsense! Imagine, for example, imposing school vacation planning when it is known that teachers actually go on vacation summers when they interrupt the learning process. Yes, but the teacher may decide that he will take his paid vacation not in the summer, but in May, when the exams run! Then what are you doing?! Here is another example of an absolutely dead and non-working text. For this reason, we will support these reasonable proposals. I call on colleagues who understand matter to support these sensible texts. I am continuing on the next bill submitted by colleagues from the Reformation Block and by colleague Petar Slavov. Here I have to make some clear explanations, at least for information, because the people's representative must also have the right to be informed about a bill. Short backstory. When the Bill was submitted, colleagues from GERB to the Commission asked for its consideration to be postponed with the idea of giving opinions by experts Such opinions were given. All opinions were in favour of the bill, all of them! They're from highly respected people, historians, and I won't mention names so I don't speculate with them. The opinions, however, you can see them, they are uploaded, they are indisputable. Moreover, when examining the Bill, I suppose none of my colleagues from the Commission will deny it, I have made several invitations to mark the April Uprising with a date of May 1st. If I am not mistaken, one of them was also to the lady Tsacheva, who was invited and she respected the celebration in Klisura, if I am not mistaken. In other words, the tradition has already imposed a May 1st date to mark the April Uprising. Colleagues, remember that a people who do not honor and remember their history has no future! Remember that thanks to the apparent victims during the April Uprising there is Bulgaria today! No one had the intention of opposing May 1st with another holiday, for example Labor Day with another holiday. However, this tradition has already been imposed, and there is nothing more natural than this tradition to be celebrated, and it is foolish to say: "Now on May 1st we will celebrate the Labor Festival and on May 2nd we will rest again because we will celebrate the April Uprising on May 3rd something else. Here I will not forget to remind you that we must make an extremely important and serious decision on the date of May 17th, on which we must mark other important events. I hope there's complete consensus there. We will support the bill of colleagues from the Reformation Bloc because it makes sense, it is a tribute to Bulgarian history and the victims who died in the April Epic! As for the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers, we will also support it. I personally three months after the entry into force of the Bill will do an analysis. I'll explain why. My fellow Members, I suppose you have not forgotten that in December of last year, when we adopted the Social Security Code, there is a very serious debate here whether a part of farmers should be benefited and provided on a much lower threshold than everyone else. I guess you haven't forgotten. There were items coming out here, competent colleagues, who explained how the tobacco producers are being harassed, how it is a matter of survival for them. Naturally, they failed to explain that this creates a serious deficit in the NSI Fund. Now, however, it turns out that there is no problem at all I would be very pleased to then find out what the revenue at the National Tax Revenue Agency is from this activity. I'm going to be the first to immediately ask for an increase in the social security threshold for these categories of people, because here all, the majority of you have given this preference. That is why we will support the bill. There is nothing wrong with farmers being able to hire seasonal workers and create jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u40	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Rumen Hristov has the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u41	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the Reformation bloc will support the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Labour Code submitted by the Council of Ministers, the Draft submitted by the National Representative of the Reformation Block Petar Slavov, and strongly, as Mr. Bajraktarov said earlier, we will support the Bill submitted by the People's Representative from BSP Lava Bulgaria. I'm starting backwards. We will support this Bill categorically from the point of view of the fact that it helps in a very good way the small business, which we all say we are, and that we want to relieve it from the administration with which it is entrusted. Of course, what Mr. Ademov said in his extensive and professional statement, it is somewhat so, but when we are looking for reasons not to happen, we could always find them. We must find the balance in this direction, but seeing that all these seven measures Mr. Kanev proposes are in the direction of easing the small business, we will strongly support his proposal. The theme of the celebration of the April Uprising, tabled by colleague Petar Slavov, will probably be protected from it, I will not protect it. We will strongly support his proposal because we believe it is reasonable. A few words regarding the Labour Code and the introduction of the so-called day-to-day labour contracts are a step in the right direction that we welcome, but we have one remark and it will be reflected in proposals between the first and second votes, namely that this bill is limited to part of the farmers. We believe that it should spread to all farmers, because they all employ temporary workers for a day, two, three, and thus they get discrimination. I think that such a need even grain producers, because a small farming farm, for example, during the sowing, needs a temporary worker to pour, at least, seeders. This also applies to the rosobera, which, by the way, is not included. I agree with what Mr. Ademov said about the duration of the Law. I believe, Mr. Ademov, that you are the President of this Commission, we will not be able to properly evaluate this pilot project. I think we have two options. One option is to be until next year, 1 July for example, assuming that this year enters into force from 1 July to have a whole business year and to see how it affects farmers and the proceeds in the NSI. And the other option is to vote by the end of the next calendar year. Perhaps this will be another proposal between the first and second votes. In my opinion, the proposal for a temporary employed worker in agriculture, as per the National Ranking, is the best option. It enables all sectors, including livestock, including sectors that are outside fruit and vegetables in order not to discriminate, not to feel affected in individual areas. Again, everyone needs temporary workers. Yeah, those 60's 100,000 jobs that are about to appear are part of the lightening of the economy that we all fight for, in my opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u42	Any lines to Mr. Christov? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Ilian Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u43	I'm just gonna ask that if the time is up, you guys move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u44	It's extended, Mr. Todorov at the request of another group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u45	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to make reference to the proposed changes to the Labour Code by "Attack" with which we propose the minimum wage in Bulgaria to be increased compared to the average minimum for the European Union. Of course, when we talk about the European Union, I cannot miss the fact that the Bulgarians did not get what they expected. We all remember the background when Bulgarian politicians promised the Bulgarians that after our accession to the European Union the standard of living will rise, that the Bulgarians will receive European salaries, that they will live better. Something that never happened. Today I hear from various colleagues from different parliamentary groups that salaries in Bulgaria could not rise because of this labour productivity, which in Bulgaria was much lower than other countries in the European Union. Colleagues, this is an absolute delusion, and today I will try to explain to you why. Can any of you, an economist, a financier, answer me with what a Bulgarian who works in the field of services in Spain, for example at the reception of a hotel, is more productive than the Bulgarian who works as a receptionist in Bulgaria? And why does the Bulgarian who works at the reception in Spain receive a 5 "6" salary 7 times higher than the Bulgarian who does the same thing in Bulgaria? What is the difference in labour productivity? Yes, there is this problem in production, but it is not the fault of the Bulgarians. The Bulgarian is not lazy. In production, there is this difference, but why? Because business owners, businesses do not want to invest in know-how, in new technologies, in new machines to increase labour productivity. Because it is easier for him to take the slaves to work for 380 leva. I'll tell you something else. Take, for example, labour productivity in the UK. You're all saying you're Euro-Atlantics, right? In Britain as a Euro-Atlantic state, according to the CIA Factbook, for 2014 the gross domestic product per person is worth 37 000 US dollars, converted by pounds. Again, according to the CIA, the gross domestic product per person in Bulgaria is 17 500 dollars. That is, the Englishman has produced twice the value of the Bulgarian as a financial statement. He has produced more goods and services twice as much as the Bulgarians. Well, then, colleagues, answer me why does the Englishman get 1550 euros minimum wage and the Bulgarian get 190? Eight times lower salary, given that he produced twice as much as the Englishman. If we are on the path of simple deductive logic, then we must agree that if the Englishman has produced twice as much of the Bulgarian, he should get twice as much of it. Or his salary should be 750 euros. Colleagues, everything we do or do not do about salaries in Bulgaria has led our country to believe that currently the minimum wage in our country is 190 euros. We say that salaries in Bulgaria were the lowest in the European Union. But I want to correct you, not only in the EU, they are lower than a number of third world countries. Although you claim to be members of the European Union and NATO. Because I can tell you that a country such as Equatorial Guinea, do you know where the minimum wage is located is 230 euros. In Equatorial Guinea! In Bulgaria, an EU member, the minimum salary is 190 euros. In Gabon in Africa, the minimum wage is 267 euros against 190 euros in European Bulgaria. Jordan, colleagues, which is one of the poorest countries in the Middle East, is a minimum wage of 237 euros. Trinidad and Tobago.. a minimum wage of 290 euros against 190 euros in European Bulgaria, which is also a member of NATO. The same is the situation in Latin American countries: in Peru a minimum salary of 260 euros, in Colombia To get to the mind-blowing fact of the island of Vanilla. These people, colleagues you see in the photo [[shows a picture of the locals of Vanilla, raging]] I don't know if it's visible, they get 285 euros minimum wage.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u46	Mr. Todorov, you are deviating from the debate by showing these materials.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u47	285 euros minimum wage! These people! Gross domestic product per capita of these people is $2,500 in 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u48	Mr. Todorov, with one more lifting of the material you have shown yourself, we will part with you from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u49	I don't know why, but okay. The gross domestic product of these people is 2500 euros per person in 2014. The gross domestic product per capita in Bulgaria for the same 2014 is 17 thousand US dollars, or eight times more. Now let's get one of you to come out and answer me why do these people in the island of Vanilla get 285 euros if they have produced eight times less than the Bulgarians? Why? [[Comments from GERB and RB.]] Then, however, colleagues, if you do not accept this proposal of ours, do not ask yourself: why is the Bulgarian doctor running away and why in 10 years will we be treated by shamans? Do not ask yourself: why does the Bulgarian teacher leave the country? Why are engineers running away? Why is IT our specialists running away? And why in general is Bulgaria disappearing? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Don't ask yourself the question: why do young people do not want to study and do not want to work? Because they see no point in studying five years to go to work at the oligarch for 190 euros, while the oligarch buys cars for 100,000 euros. So, fellow Members, please support this proposal. I think these facts are undeniable. There's nothing you can say in front of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u50	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. The word for speech is Mr. Vladislav Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to take account of two bills. One of them belongs to Petar Kanev and a group of MPs. Colleague, I think that we will support a large part of this Bill, that is, all of it, and at second reading we have some remarks that I think are not very significant, but I will take account of them. First of all, on your first proposal to increase the deadline for notification to the NRA from three to seven days, it is not essential, but I think it is absolutely pointless to increase this deadline. To remind you of the notified measure was introduced in 2003 and showed its real effect by brightening a large part of the grey economy at this time. [[The National Representative Ilian Todorov showed the TV cameras the picture he was showing from the stands during his speech.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u52	Sorry, Mr. Nikolov. Mr. Todorov, go to the towers, give them a tribune, let them have the colleagues from the press, from the media, up close with a nice, appropriate light to reproduce what you show them. It's not the place in the gym. Go on, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u53	Moreover, perhaps in this kind of service, 80% of the notifications are sent electronically, so here we can comment on whether it is the most appropriate and the three-day term, and it is absolutely pointless to do so for seven days. These are my conclusions in this direction, all the more so that in order for the worker to start, the employer is obliged to give him the signed contract, the notification issued, a copy of the notification under art. 62, para. 3 on the worker, and with this seven-day period, we can slow down the most. This increase is absolutely pointless. I think the three-day deadline is absolutely enough. With regard to your next offers for leave, I am absolutely..................................................................................... I was the director of the Labor Inspectorate. I've seen that thing. There's some meaning to it, rather, and it was mandatory, they were playing until December 31st. Then people changed it, so I'm absolutely about this proposal to drop out with its binding character. Always the employer and the worker understand at what time to leave, so that his prior reference as a term did not act until now. With regard to the employer's right to terminate the employment contract with notice of persons who have acquired the right to pension for internship and age, this proposal, I think, unblocked our economy, because from the time it entered from 2012, we see that employers can very hardly end their relationship with people who are over that age who want to continue working, and there is quite a lot of youth unemployment in Bulgaria. This again I think is an incentive to find jobs. So in terms of the matter, it is controversial, but I am more likely to give way to the young than to continue to hinder employers by changing the Law and fulfilling this part of it. With regard to the protection under art. 33, para. 1, that is, when we have disciplinary dismissals. In this case, because it's about disciplinary dismissal, I think it's absolutely pointless to ask for permission from the Labour Inspection every time. True, there are cases of people who are disabled, cases of people who are sick, but here we are talking about disciplinary dismissal. When we talk about disciplinary dismissal, it is, in most cases, something that is a violation of work discipline.. does not come to work and we keep holding it just because we are waiting for permission is absolutely pointless. From now on, the court will prove whether or not this man was supposed to be at work. But people speculate. When protected, these groups of people speculate to their employers because they know that they are protected by the law, including union leaders, and do not come to work or do certain types of work because they are protected. With regard to the Law of the Council of Ministers, it is indeed quite innovative with this proposal for short-term seasonal work. We will support this Bill, but rather, because I know that its term is one year old, I think, colleagues, let us not rush with its increase, but see how this bill will work, because, apart from its positive sides, which we are all focused on, there are many opportunities for negative effect. First, the employer must go to the Labour Inspectorate and take these day-to-day contracts and pay the advance. I am not convinced that many employers will agree to pay advance insurance in advance, rather than pay them next month, since they have appointed people under a contract of employment. Secondly, as regards the payment to be on the threshold for the defined type of activity. What if this worker and I have agreed on another kind of salary, another kind of remuneration? It is kind of damaged because it will be secured on the threshold, so we will support this bill. I am very interested to see some assessment and a report on the effect of the action of this Bill before we start to expand it, because I would again develop another thesis that a large part of farmers have permanent workers. And I think we're going to get someone into the gray area, but it's an innovative model, it's interesting. When we see the effect at the end of the year and what part of the people are hired with these contracts, they're paid their taxes and social security, I think we'll get a clearer picture of it then, so if we make some adjustments between first and second readings, I think we should give them a chance to see how farmers appreciate it and whether it will have any effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u54	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u55	I want to thank Mr. Nikolov. Many pathos and emotions had in today and very few professional speeches. The truth is that he, Gokov and several other people in this Chamber really understand the work relationship and on the topic of....... the dismissals....... and on other topics. [[Heckling]] Yeah, we'll talk about you in a minute. Thanks for the support, mainly for the holidays. I understand why Mrs. Angelova is opposed to removing the vacation schedule. Years ago, she was the chairman of...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u56	You're making a line for Mr. Nikolov. Leave Mrs. Angelova alone. She spoke. You didn't give her a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u57	Yes, I'm making a replica of your statement about the vacation schedule. Thank you, you're right, as always. We need to get rid of the vacation schedule. For the smallest firm, anyway, but for some huge businesses, in workshops doing this five times a year?! Those guys who don't know how they're made up and who came up with all this, go home and ask their husbands, watch the kids' schedule, and where they're going, and if the grandmothers can watch them... And let's ease the work a little bit and not pretend to be greater than the pope. I'm just asking you because we usually buy out the know-how and sell out the donut-noo. Let's stop this!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u58	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Nikolov? You won't use it. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I followed the whole discussion and I think she was generally serious and objective. On just two points, I would like to finally express an opinion, which I think could be useful in further work on the bills. Under the bill of Mr. Kanev and other MPs from BSP, there is really a need for greater flexibility in terms of small and micro companies. I pay particular attention, and it is good that it has been declared that some of the proposals in the Bill should be dropped because there are risks of reducing the right to a weekly and interday holiday for workers. Some other issues, which are more than technical, have also been mentioned, but in no way should this flexibility affect the fundamental rights of workers in this case, and I think there is an understanding of this. In fact, it is not only in the circle of the joke, I think that trust in our parliament will increase if one day employers start submitting proposals, except for business development and for improving the situation of workers. On the other issue, which concerns the Law of the Council of Ministers on flexible working hours. Yes, indeed today's situation is much more dynamic, such flexibility is needed. Offering this solution is better than nothing that was currently working in relation to a number of agricultural workers, but the employment contract for short-term seasonal agricultural work carries certain risks. It is good that insurance is being charged, that registration is being introduced, that is, exiting the gray economy of part of the mass activities. But I ask myself: what are these agricultural activities that can be started and completed within a day? Even if we take the vintage campaigns, the rosubert, the sowing, they usually last for a few weeks. I call on the Social Committee to discuss these contracts for at least one week, because otherwise there is a risk that the fixed-term and fixed-term contracts will be widely replaced by day-to-day contracts. When the employer can say every day, I will change the remuneration. I will take someone else who will work better! Plus, notice, it is given the right to one person to be hired once up to 90 working days. It's an honest bypass. Why don't you make a short-term contract for two or three months? There is no way these purely seasonal activities could be more than a month. These are, in my opinion, issues that need to be seriously discussed so that we do not fall through the day-to-day contracts in a situation similar to that of a gentleman in one day. Therefore, at this stage, I would rather refrain from assessing that this step is looking for a solution to real problems, but let it be a signal, especially to the Labour and Social Policy Commission, that it must introduce some additional requirements in terms of both time limits and the conditions for implementing these contracts, because in Bulgaria the norm of exploitation is too high, there are no trade unions in agriculture and we must be the ones to find the balance between the demand for greater employment and flexibility and the protection of those who make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u60	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Any lines to his statement? I won't. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u61	Mrs. Chairman! Patience, honourable Members, I have listened to the speeches all morning. I'll be very brief on the few important bills. The contributions from colleague Volen Siderov, of course, will not support. I don't think we need to explain why anymore. With regard to the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. In international labour market research, including the World Bank, a major problem on the Bulgarian labour market is the lack of flexibility. It is high time that we took these measures to support them. This is a legalization of an existing situation. Yes, even day-to-day contracts should be possible, they are part of life in Bulgaria, they are just part of the gray economy. With these measures, we allow them to become part of the official registered economy. This is the real labour market, and legislation should reflect it, not limit it and force people to artificially fall into the grey sector. With regard to the bill of colleague Petar Kanev, we will strongly support him. I hope this will not lead to his exclusion from the parliamentary group, had such experience with other colleagues, because excessive bureaucracy should be reduced especially for micro-enterprises, which are indeed the backbone of the Bulgarian economy. We stand behind each of the measures proposed by colleague Kanev, and we are glad that even on the left there are people who think about small businesses. And thirdly, the most important thing I have to say is this. Colleagues, after today's debate, we will either celebrate the April Uprising on May 1st, or eventually after all these years, no decision will be taken and we will not have an official date at which to mark this important event the April Uprising, which changes the course of Bulgarian history. So I call you to the following. Even if you have any doubts, even if you were touched by the statement of the BSP colleague, who reminded us of the whole history of his party, starting with the Soviet Union and the BCP [[BSP LB]] Even if it moved you mentally, understand that it would be a pity at the end of today's plenary debate, in which we have heard so many opinions, the Bulgarian Parliament should decide that it does not mark the April uprising that we do not have such an official date. Think about it, isn't this one of the most important events in our history? Does it not deserve, honourable Members, the April Uprising, along with Labor Day, to be marked together on the same date on May 1st? Which of the two events will be the first, for me it is not the most important. What is important is that after all this debate, after everything that has been said, it does not turn out that the Bulgarian Parliament finds some reason not to mark the April Uprising, not to make a definite decision. You don't just have to call yourself a patriot, you have to be a patriot, and I congratulate my fellow Patriots who have shown themselves to be patriots. But I hope that the rest of the Bulgarian Parliament will do the same, because I am sorry, tomorrow I am interested in what you will say if you are asked: "Why didn't you make a definite decision about the April Uprising? The other interesting thing is this. You do not accept the date 1 May, but you do not offer another date from which it turns out that you do not really wish to have an official day on which to mark it... [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] You don't want to, you don't have a proposal, all you have is small talk. I've heard a lot of small talk, there's no concrete proposal. Since you do not have a specific proposal once again, there is only idle talk, I suggest that you support our proposal. Since we heard BSP's arguments that somehow, as far as I understood them, communism did not allow it, and I accept it in some sense, I refer to colleagues from GERB. Colleagues, we need your votes so that Bulgarians can prevail.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u62	You're not here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u63	We need your votes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u64	First line, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, my line is in two parts. You, as a representative of an authentic right-wing party, speak only of flexibility. Modern Europe is talking about flexibility and security. "Flex Securities" is the term you know very well, and to talk only about flexibility means that you ignore the labour and social security rights that go in combination. This issue is an absolute European issue and is part of the Treaty of Rome, you know very well because it is related to the free movement of people. The free movement of people and the employment of labour force, the labour force goes beyond flexible labour market and guaranteeing their labour and social security rights. We cannot, in any case, only talk about a flexible labour market without keeping it sufficiently secure. That is, this is how you achieve the balance Mr. Kanev spoke of, the balance between labour and capital, European standards for flexible labour market, and on the other hand, European standards for respect for labour and social security rights. The second part of my line is related to your proposal for May 1st and the April Uprising. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, in Bulgarian labour law, there are more than 15 official holidays in the Labour Code. Over 15 official celebrations! No one is opposed to the date of the announcement of the April Uprising to be celebrated in any way you want, only that this will become a public holiday, to increase the official holidays in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u66	Second line, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u67	I won't say anything about patriotism. It's a matter of another conversation. It is clear that our philosophy of governance and the attitude towards the issues of employers' rights and workers' rights is getting away with yours. However, I could not understand why you did not want to discuss and reflect on the indisputable facts Ilian Todorov presented. The comparative analysis and the facts you said...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u68	Mr. Stanilov, your group does not have parliamentary time to participate in the debate. I gave you one minute of extra time. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u69	I could not understand why on these undeniable facts about differences between countries belonging to the Second World and Bulgaria, which belongs to the countries in transition, these indisputable facts in contrast to the salary you do not comment on them and you do not want to say anything! Just keep quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u70	Third line, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u71	Mr. Dimitrov, you have introduced a lot of ideology and a little intrigue in your speech regarding our bill. Petar Kanev's bill is not an individual act. It is a conscious choice of the parliamentary group and does not contradict BSP's beliefs. It is said that we represent social left policy. We represent the interests of the workers, but we are reasonable people, not populists. We realize that when the economy is 97% micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, then if we do not help these people and the economy does not provide revenue in the country, there will be no cost for social policy. Moreover, these 97% micro, small and medium-sized enterprises employ 2-3 people. It's a small family business. They're also laborers. In this way, absolutely conscious and not as an individual act, we have all signed this bill and stand behind it, defending the interests of these people.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u72	A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u73	Dear colleagues, first of all, let me thank you for the interesting lines that have been made. I'll start in their order with colleague Ademov. In order for there to be security, colleague Ademov, in addition to flexibility, these contracts need to come out of the grey economy. Something that is in the gray economy cannot be certain by any definition of the concept of "flex securities" that you are talking about. This flexibility will therefore enable these contracts to become official and exit the grey economy. God willing, if this is combined with an appropriate state policy, then we will have more security, including for those who are working, the notorious balance between labour and capital that we are talking about. Otherwise, Mr. Ademov, given your general competence, I am surprised that you say that we are increasing the number of official holidays. That's exactly what we're not doing. We say on 1 May, which is an existing official holiday, to celebrate the April Uprising. We don't increase them. Just so there is no argument why are you now once again increasing the number of official holidays?Should we hear Mr. Ademov tell us that it was not a right-wing policy, that is why we say to have a reconciliation. Here comes the matter of judgment, honourable Members. If for you, for the Bulgarian Parliament the April Uprising is a key date in Bulgarian history, you will not hesitate which button to press. [[Reply of National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] You will not look for fictional arguments, as unfortunately, my esteemed colleague Ademov said a fictional argument. We don't increase them. On the contrary, we do not increase them, and we also allow it to be celebrated on an official date and the April Uprising.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u74	You didn't follow the discussion!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u75	So, colleagues, if this date in the Bulgarian history is key to you, I call on you: whenever the vote is today or tomorrow, to support the proposal to show that we are Bulgarians, that we are patriots and that we do not part in the Bulgarian Parliament on these issues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u76	You're joining the Patriotic Front. You'll soon be mastered.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u77	Personal explanation of Mr. Peter Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u78	I did not understand the role of the Labour Code in the organization and implementation of the April Uprising. And I'm against politicizing this type of debate because we're talking about something very serious. Secondly, Martin Dimitrov's hopes for a long time shared them with me to be excluded from the BSP Parliamentary Group cannot happen. First of all, I'm part of this group. Second of all, we're having a hard time shutting down. [[crowd cheering in the hall.]] Thirdly, this bill has been introduced by me and a group of MPs from our parliamentary group. It is voted unanimously by a parliamentary group. Unlike some of our colleagues, we do not allow ourselves people who are loyal to the group and have a sense of partnership, discipline, teamwork, we do not allow ourselves to submit bills without passing the vote through the group. It's a very serious subject. Once again, only micro companies and small businesses are 97%, which employ 1 million. $100,000. The guy. The problem is human destinies. Let's lighten them up so they can work normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u79	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Are there other MPs to speak? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u80	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to express my personal support for the proposal for a change to the Labour Code submitted by colleague Petar Kanev, as we believe this is perhaps one of the most meaningful bills submitted during the Forty-third National Assembly. It affects the labour relations and most of all makes an attempt to alleviate this extremely tightening regime that weighs on the neck of small and medium businesses, which, according to statistics, Mr. Kanev, provides about 75% of the jobs in Bulgaria. Extremely high percentage, which makes the bill extremely important and substantial. Again, I doubt we've seen such a meaningful bill recently. The program of the Patriotic Front sets the requirement and the main priority for easing the administrative burdens on small and medium-sized businesses in order to unfold the initiative of the Bulgarian. This is the condition for the revival of the economy, not any global measures taken by heavy administrative and ministerial structures. Only in this way can the economy of Bulgaria be revived! In this regard, I repeat, we believe that the proposals are extremely accurate, up-to-date, somewhat incomplete, as they can be improved and expanded. We continue to work in this direction, both in our group and with other colleagues. We will make further changes not only in the Labour Code, but also in the professional bills related to professional activity in different industries. I will not dwell on the details of the merits of the proposals. However, I would like to appeal to all my colleagues in this National Assembly. I was very uncomfortable with listening to all the speeches and to establish that, in fact, for the most part, these are statements, unfortunately, of professional politicians, of professional populists, of people who have performed only administrative and state activities at the moment, I can call them narrow-minded government officials, former failed ministers and so on, and so on. Let people who know matter speak on these matters. Unfortunately, such people in this National Assembly are not many. With greater attention, respect and respect, listen to the arguments and support these proposals, which, I repeat, affect a huge part of Bulgaria's labour market and, accordingly, the future of the country. With regard to the Draft Law of the Council of Ministers, the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support this proposal and after a one-year period we can review the results again. I am sure that they will give freedom to the labour market, an opportunity to use Bulgaria's labour resource more fully, which, as we know, is not fully used. With regard to the proposal of the reformist bloc's colleague to mark the great date of the beginning of the April Uprising, we are very strongly....... for........................................................................ Dear colleagues, not the preliminary agreements of the Great Powers in Berlin, not the Constantinople Conference, the beginning of the liberation of Bulgaria from Turkish slavery is exactly the date of the outbreak of the April Uprising. Ugly, it's humiliating to argue whether the date is the 1st or 2nd, the important thing is that this is the date of the beginning of the April Uprising. It should enter the solemn calendar of Bulgaria. As has been clarified, it is not about the introduction of an additional day off or an additional holiday day, on the contrary, importers quite rightly suggest that this be done together with the celebration of the Labor Festival. So on this point, we will also vote for.............................................................................................. The very serious question was also raised, which, of course, cannot be answered in this room and in the context of a limited discussion: why did the naked people from Varadero take 250 dollars a salary and in Bulgaria the salary was lower? I think we already had a parliamentary group there to study the experience of Varadero naked people. If necessary, I suggest we raise funds among ourselves and send them once more, then we can find out why they're taking higher wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u81	- What's the line? I won't. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? I won't. The debate is closed. In accordance with art. 69 of our Rules of Procedure may set a day and time for the voting of the bills included in the weekly programme discussed in the first vote. The vote on the seven bills amending and supplementing the Labour Code will take place tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. before the points listed as first and second on the agenda. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED AMERICAN STATES FOR THE APPROVAL OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE TAXATION IN INTERNATIONAL ASPECT AND THE FATCA ACTION. Importer of the Council of Ministers. At first reading, the Bill was adopted on 9 April 2015. Draft for the second vote of the Committee on Budget and Finance "Please come in, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u82	Thank you, Madam President. The Commission's Report on Budget and Finance on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America to improve compliance with international tax legislation and the implementation of FATCA, No 502-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 February 2015, adopted on the first vote on 9 April 2015. Project! Second vote The Act for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America to improve compliance with international tax legislation and the implementation of FATCA. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u83	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Gechev. A law voted at first reading without proposals for a different name?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, we object to the name. That's what I said in the Commission. The name says that this is an Agreement concerning or leading to, and I quote:................................ respect for international tax legislation and the implementation of FATCA................................................................................................................................................................................................................. There is no international aspect in the content. This is a one-sided Agreement that serves the US tax administration and deprives Bulgaria of information. Here there is a colossal contradiction between the title and the content.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u85	Why didn't you make a proposal between first and second readings and clear this contradiction, Mr. Gechev?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u86	We will adopt an agreement to which the title does not correspond to the content. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u87	A line? Here you go, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u88	Dear Madam President, I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct. The discussion on amendments to the Labour Code has just been concluded. I do not recall the National Assembly deciding that the vote on these amendments will be taken tomorrow. Firstly, there is no logic after a two-hour discussion, instead of voting now, when everything is fresh in the minds of the MPs, we should vote tomorrow. I'm asking, who decided this thing? I don't recall the National Assembly making such a decision here. [[GERB lines.]] It will turn out that some Presidency Council is a higher authority than the MPs in general.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u89	It's in the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u90	The rules are, after the discussions are completed, the vote shall be taken. It's the rules! I ask you very much, before we move on to the next point, there is nothing wrong within one minute, as is the order, with the vote on the respective bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u91	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. It was not for a reason that I specifically recalled the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I appreciate the fact that the MPs are actively preparing for the debate, and some texts may have escaped them. I will answer you with the text of the Rules of Procedure: The President may set a day and time for the voting of the drafts, discussed in the first vote, included in the weekly programme. It is high time for this Chamber of the National Assembly to have the practice, something that was widely used in the Forty-second National Assembly. A line to Mr. Rumen Gechev's statement? I won't. For speech on the title Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u92	Madam President, honourable Members! My colleague Gechev is right about what he said. I would like to make a specific editorial proposal on the title. As you can see, it reads: The Act for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America to improve compliance with international tax legislation and implementation of FATCA. My proposal is: after the words of the... legislation to be added to the US................................................................................................ This is the subject of this agreement. We are entering the legislation of the United States of America within our legal system. It is therefore correct to note in the title of this Agreement that it is a matter of.................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u93	Any other speeches? [[Heckling]] Obviously, we cannot improve US legislation because we are not in the US Parliament or the Senate, there is no way to put it to the vote. If you'd offered to drop the title, you could have. Are there any other suggestions? There are no other proposals. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u94	Mr. Chairman, I strongly ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure and to put the editorial proposals to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u95	This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u96	It's totally permissible! No matter how much you say it, that's acceptable. I repeat: this is about improving the international application of US tax legislation, so here comes a speech. I can tell you, it's about the US Internal Revenue Code, it's about the FATCA Act and so on. This is what we do with this Agreement, and the title really must correspond to its content. Please put to the vote my editorial proposal for an addition to the title.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u97	It became clear that I would not put it to the vote. Any other speeches? I won't. The debates are closed. Let's move on to the vote. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law. The name of the importing law shall be supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 120 MPs: 95, against 21, abstention 4. The name of the Import Act has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u98	I'm the only one. It ratifies the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America to improve compliance with international tax legislation and the implementation of FATSA, signed on 5 December 2014 in Sofia. A proposal from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Rumen Gechev and Valeri Zablyanov The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev is the only member to become art. 1 and it shall add the expression for a period of one year. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as the sole member.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u99	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleagues, we are facing a precedent for the implementation of international law and the treaties of the Republic of Bulgaria. For the first time in this Chamber, we are forced to sign a unique one for European practice and NATO member states, a one-sided treaty that actually transforms Bulgaria into a colonial state. We are forced to set aside funds, to organize, to use institutional resources to feed information to the tax administration of the United States. They will do their job, Bulgaria's budget will be deprived of significant income from the exported dirty money from Bulgaria, hidden from privatisation, from other unclean transactions. In this regard, we strongly object to this now, by voting, to turn Bulgaria, pay attention to the only country of 28 EU member states to sign a humiliating treaty, which also brings down the whole of the European Union. We will be the only NATO member state to be humiliated in such a way. Let's ask ourselves, is this what the Republic of Bulgaria deserves as a partner? By participating in Iraq, Afghanistan, what is happening now to the polygons in Bulgaria to be treated as a country of the fourth world? Dear colleagues, the banana republic of Honduras has allegedly signed a bilateral agreement. The Zulus, this great tribe of the South African Republic, have signed a bilateral treaty. What do they want from us? What button should we press? Where do we send the Bulgarian country and the Bulgarian state? How will we not have access to information about Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian companies that have violated international tax laws and have deprived the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian budget? Furthermore, the fact that information would leak from our country and therefore the contract would not be signed. This is an insult to the Bulgarian government. It doesn't matter that it's from other political forces. I do not agree to insult the Bulgarian government that it is not as organized as banana republics and Zulus tribes. Moreover, it is contrary to common sense that the US side agrees to leak information about American citizens, but to keep the information about Bulgarian citizens and companies who have transgressed the law. Who are we gonna protect? What are we going to tell the Bulgarian people that we are for hiding the dirty money exported from Bulgaria? Is that what we're gonna vote on in this case?! Moreover, on top of that, we are waving a finger and a whip that if we do not implement this humiliating unilateral agreement, we will be subject to financial sanctions. This seems to me a bit like slave society, that if the slave does not agree to work for free, he will be punished with whips. Is this what the Republic of Bulgaria deserves from its partners? So, dear friends, let us maintain national dignity! Let us not vote on this Agreement, which is wonderful by design, but the tragedy is that it is unilateral, and let us not turn our country into a country of disgrace in the European Union and in NATO, which has agreed to such a humiliating unilateral agreement! Let's not back him up, let's get Art. 6, as in other dozens of countries there are.... Art. 6............................................................................. 6 for reciprocity. Nothing more! I conclude with this: we must support all initiatives. Great initiative of both the United States and the European Union for transparency and respect for tax laws. Not to ruin our country's prestige! So the dignity of Bulgaria is now in the red button. Otherwise, the lists of our votes are coming up, and people will not forget what we are going to do right now. I invite you to vote against, to oblige the Bulgarian government and our partners to sit down, to put art. 6, like all countries of Africa and Asia, and come out with dignity from this situation! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u101	Thank you, Professor. Gechev. In fact, you so argue that you have invited this House to vote against it? [[Reply by MP Rumen Gechev.]] The next speech is from the MP Ilian Todorov. A little clarification: the Zulus are from Botswana, not the South African republics.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Gechev, one amendment - Bulgaria has long been a colonized state. [[Noise and disapproving lines from right and center.]] Colleagues, at the moment you are offering us one craziness, another humiliating treaty from the United States, which confirms that Bulgaria and the United States are not partners, but the opposite is that they are the colonists and we are the slaves. There can be no reciprocity! So the US state can receive information from the Bulgarian administration, this is possible, but when it comes to the Bulgarian state reciprocally to receive information about the finances of its citizens in the US, then it is not possible. Guys, do you know what this looks like to me? On what you've done about the free travel you've all been talking about. It's the same there. Currently, if an American citizen wishes to come to Bulgaria in three months, he does not need a visa. However, if a Bulgarian wants to go to the United States, he needs a visa. He goes to the embassy, they humiliate him, pray. Is that what you call partnership? We at Ataka are firmly opposed to the lack of reciprocity. We cannot support such a humiliating treaty or agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Todorov. - What's the line? I won't. For the next speech, the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have tabled a proposal to dismiss this article for a single reason and it is that we, as the National Assembly, are unable to amend with ratification contracts and procedures content of already signed contracts. For this reason, I propose that this ratification be dismissed so that we can give the government of the Republic of Bulgaria the opportunity to do its job. Even the very title that I voted against has not been done properly. It could be for example a second vote on the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement and so on between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United States for partial improvement and compliance. This is about improving the information that the US country will receive for companies in Bulgaria and because I see that many Americans have gone to hide their money in Bulgaria, the information will just be overflowing and I am even slightly surprised how the US special services will deal with this volume and such avalanche of information about American citizens who have hidden their incomes in Bulgaria. In fact, what we are doing right now is adopting an agreement with which we will all become accomplices to the fact that it is precisely those who are hiding their money, the Bulgarians who are hiding their money in the US, not to forget the special laws in part of the United States, for example the state of Delaware, and the way in which companies are registered, the way in which tax legislation operates. All those Bulgarians who have already taken their money out there, with the adoption and ratification of this agreement we will hide them because the American side will not have the commitment to inform us about what, how many and who are the people, what money and how much they have hidden and what are the people who have done it there. Please very much let us be the parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria to defend the interests of Bulgarian finances, to fight for there to be no leakage of Bulgarian finances to foreign countries, but not to become an addition to the American Parliament and the Senate, because such an agreement, in this way it is written, should rather be ratified by them, as it concerns only them and not us. Once again, I call on: all those who are really fighting for purity of finances, all those who are against the so-called model.Koi, who has already become proverbial, all those who want to have information about which Bulgarians are exporting their money out not only in offshores, but who are known as offshores, in the United States there are also states as organizational territorial units, which also play the role of offshores. To oblige in this Agreement, indeed, the United States of America to provide us with information about Bulgarians who have moved out and hid their money there. This is the way to fight the black economy, to fight the grey economy, to fight money laundering and to know who hides his taxes from the Bulgarians, who wins illegally at his expense. Otherwise, the other will be serving all those who find a way to export their capital from the state, and we are giving up our right to ask for information about it. Therefore, let us not really vote on this agreement, vote on the proposal to remove the text that I have tabled. In this way we will give the Bulgarian government a chance to continue the negotiations, to introduce the principle of reciprocity inside and we will have the opportunity to get real information about those who are trying to parasite on the back of the Bulgarian taxpayer, hiding taxes and laundering money using the territory of the United States of America. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u105	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Ermenkov! They won't understand your colleagues on the right! About everything you're saying to them, they've covered their ears right now!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u107	What's your disagreement?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u108	I do not agree with you, with the fact that you turn to their conscience, to their sense of justice, to the sense of sovereignty of the Law of our territory. They won't understand you simply. I expect in time even if we get an offer to become the 53rd state. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u109	Any other lines? Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u110	Mr. Georgiev, I cannot agree with you not to address my colleagues because I think this is how we can reach an agreement to protect the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria. I am even convinced that colleagues, when going to vote, will comply with the so-called requirement for conflict of interest in the vote and there will be no one among them interested in the information found in the United States for Bulgarians who have laundered their money there to be on this list. That is why, and believing that there are no such people among them, I appeal to them with the request to really give the Bulgarian government a chance to negotiate reciprocity, because only then can we talk about an agreement, only then can we talk about something that is related to mutual protection of interests. Otherwise, there is a small unilaterality that is strange in international relations, a precedent for the European Union, a precedent for NATO, Bulgaria is a country that is equal, equal, with all the rights and obligations, to be humiliated in the way that we are currently trying as MPs, if we vote on this Agreement on the text on which the importer makes it and you do not agree with my proposal, we will really do humiliate Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people and especially ourselves as parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. For a statement there is a word from the public representative Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! All that has been said just now to prevent ratification of this Agreement is true. I will give just one more argument and say again: with this agreement we introduce directly into the Bulgarian legal peace, the Bulgarian legal system laws of the United States of America. I did my job and compared them to some of the European regulations, I found at least ten contradictions. Understand, this agreement will bring us into a number of hypotheses of contradiction with the common European legal framework. This agreement is something of a Trojan horse in the common legal system of the European Union. Along with the Transatlantic Investment Partnership, these are instruments that break up the European Union. Therefore, they must not be allowed and must not enter into action. But I can see the reaction from the right, so I've made a separate alternative proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u113	When the time comes, you'll explain it to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u114	But it's right on this text, Mrs. Stoyanova, don't interrupt me, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u115	I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u116	My suggestion is this. If you still ratify and do not listen to what Prof. Gechev and colleague Ermenkov have proposed that we ratify this agreement for only one year. Within this year, we will allow the relevant experts in the Ministry of Finance to hold a new round of negotiations, to negotiate bilaterality in this Agreement, to clear up all problems in relation to the action of mandatory European regulations relating to banking regulation, with the fact that we will seek entry into the Eurozone and after one year this Agreement to be rehabilitated into another, convenient, adjusted species, one that will enable simultaneous action of certain provisions of US laws and common European legislation. If we don't, we put a mine, a bomb in our legal system, understand that! I understand that most of you may not be familiar with the text of the Agreement, but I will give you just one example. All accounts are now subject to revision! All deposit accounts, including yours. I really ask that what my fellow Members have said if there is anyone in conflict of interest to stand up and say it. Through this dependence and darkness on information and not providing information about accounts to Bulgarian natural and legal entities in the US, thus the US is holding probably politicians, not only business entities. So you know with the check under Annex 1 all your accounts will now be checked, all information will be given in the relevant US institutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u117	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u118	I'm not full of shit. Read and see. It's not just about accounts over 50,000. The dollar, and when it comes to deposit accounts, writes less and less without specifying how much less. [[GERB lines.]] There won't be any penalty.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u119	Don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u120	There can be no unilateral sanction in international law. Ask my colleague Kirilov, he'll explain it to you. You can't! Find out! There can only be a penalty if the country has voluntarily agreed to this. Of course, from the United States of America we can expect anything. Colleagues, once again, let's ratify it. If you don't agree to Professor Spock's proposal. Gechev and colleague Ermenkov, at least for a year to give ourselves this deadline and all the questions that raise this agreement to be resolved. This is my request to you. Here I specifically address the reformist colleagues.......................you are the people of pure law, rule of law, respect of the Constitution, stand up and say something about this matter. Don't be quiet. This is an extremely important Agreement on the Development of the Financial System of Bulgaria from now on. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We put ourselves in complete submission to American laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u121	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u122	We're on vacation now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u123	The rules don't say what time the break is, and I'm keeping it completely.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u124	Colleagues, I really don't understand why you don't come up with facts and arguments.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u125	A line to the MP Chavdar Georgiev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u126	Come up with facts and arguments, if you have any.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u127	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u128	I mean to the colleagues who haven't met the Agreement, what does it say that the line that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u129	Your line should be to Mr. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u130	...just now made colleague Chavdar Georgiev completely false and full of insinuations. I want to explain to you what the Bulgarian financial institutions and the financial market will lose if we do not sign this Agreement, which is very important and that they will not seize and check the accounts of the Bulgarian citizens... That was communism, comrades. First, the Bulgarian financial institutions will be treated as non-cooperating under the FATCA Act and will be sanctioned with 30% income tax with a source of the US they or their customers receive. According to the provisions of the FATCA Act 2017, a 30% tax will be levied on the gross amount of payments and not just income. This is what you will do for Bulgarian citizens and companies who have bills in the US and earn income there. For each transfer, 30% is what you want by not signing this Agreement. Secondly, the access of the Bulgarian financial institutions to international financial markets will be significantly limited, as the latter will be an undesirable partner and client of any financial institution participating in FATCA. Foreign financial institutions participating in FATCA, which have a subsidiary or branch in Bulgaria, will be treated as non-participants, which creates a risk for the entire international financial group. There is a strong likelihood that foreign institutions will cease their activities in Bulgaria to redirect some of their activities to third countries. Is this what you want to do for the Bulgarian companies and citizens with your reluctance and all of you, if you had read, because I am not sure if part of you would have been the members of the Budget Committee, the secret gram to see why it is unilaterally at this stage and that it could change, you would have shut up. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u131	The weather, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u132	Do not call or mislead Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian MPs [[Applause from GERB]] with these statements of yours that are against the Bulgarian companies... [[The speaker speaks with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u133	Third line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u134	Mr. Georgiev, I am sorry, but I do not agree with some of the findings you have made regarding Bulgaria's dependences and whether Bulgaria will be colonial and so on. I want to tell you that the way in which we are currently working, perhaps this should be your attitude, but I want to hear your opinion on what I am going to say now in opposition to your thesis that by signing such agreements, by ratifying them, there is no reason to be surprised that in Bulgaria there is growing euroscepticism and anti-Atlanticism, as it is natural for the Bulgarian citizen to feel humiliated, offended, second category citizen, since we have only obligations and we have no rights. There is talk of numbers and so on, but this is some kind of insinuation, we are not against this Agreement, but against its unilateral appearance as it is. Moreover, what we want is not to be gone, but to be equal. Mr. Georgiev, I ask you very much to take a view on this, are we not the reason why, acting unilaterally, defending foreign interests, to be also the so-called "unwittings" but "participants in the growth of Euroscepticism and skepticism towards our Atlantic cooperation." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u135	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u136	Mr. Chairman! I'll start backwards. You're right, colleague Ermenkov, that's true. [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB.]] That's right! These actions lead to an increase in scepticism with regard to the Atlantic Pact, in general to our bilateral relations with the United States of America. More and more people think that we have become more dependent on what was in the Soviet Union, the former Warsaw Treaty and the SIV. This will be a fact with the adoption of this Agreement. As far as sanctions are concerned and what happens if we don't sign this Agreement, my fellow Members! Don't be so afraid of the strong hand of the United States of America. There can be no unilateral sanctions in international law, I say! That's a clear principle! International law is based on the principle of equality and mutual cooperation, on peaceful cooperation. Plus, once again, we will be the only European Union country to sign such a humiliating Agreement. Why don't we tell our American partners: "Yes, we are ready to sign an Agreement, but on the normal bilateral basis, whatever international law requires."! That it's insulting even for them. I call on you, first of all, not to ratify this Agreement. Secondly, if you still reject this proposal, then at least ratify it for a one-year period in order to have the opportunity to renegotiate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u137	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u138	Mr. Chairman, I will use my right to procedure. First of all, I want to argue with her. We have seen how, in order to waste time, colleagues from the opposition rise up and give their speeches. Mr. Chairman, by the way, you could have interrupted them because that wasn't a line to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u139	Is your procedure in the manner of conduct, or do you have another procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u140	My procedure, Mr. President, is to end the debate on this text and move on to a vote, because talking about how we have been in the Soviet Union and such things are not the essential debate at the moment. The important debate is another, but we saw what is happening.. are doing lines, duplicates of one speech by people from the same political group. I propose an end to the debate on this paragraph and a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u141	Thank you. A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm making a reverse procedural proposal. I believe that the debates on this ratification have not been exhausted and there is much more to be said. It is not a waste of time the argument by colleagues and by the BSP Parliamentary Group, as opposition and as a parliamentary group thinking about Bulgaria's dignity. I think this is not a waste of time, but it is good to hear the reasons in the Bulgarian National Assembly and to reach the citizens in order to judge after this ratification who and in what way protects the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u143	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Stanislav Ivanov to close the debates and move on to the vote. They voted 133 MPs: 102, against 29, abstention 2. The motion to end the debate has been adopted. Revoting please, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want a re-voting procedure because colleagues couldn't vote even though they had raised their hand. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] By the way, I'm not doing this in the hope that you'll change your mind, and that's why we want a re-vote, but tomorrow, when the printout comes out, we want to know who voted for what. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u145	Thank you. Revoting procedure. Vote 138 MPs: 103, against 31, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u146	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the vote that has just ended, the discussion on the title has been suspended and the article is the only one to move on to the vote on the proposed bill. Before that, however, on the basis of the Rules, I take the opportunity to make another procedural proposal to postpone the further examination of this Draft at second reading. I'm going to take this opportunity to make the justification in a nutshell. In this case, we do not dispute that Bulgaria is making any commitments to the United States to provide information. What is disputed is that we do not have the same opportunity for information regarding Bulgarian citizens and companies. That is why I appeal really to postpone this matter. If there is no danger that the Bulgarian government will fall as a result of the fact that at the moment the Agreement is not supported, let consultations be held with him, too, so as to see how to get out of the situation. Proposals have been made by our colleagues and for some time, within which this issue can be resolved. Notice that there will be a question of lightening all funds in the bankrupt CCB, and there will be a complete blackout on this issue. We were just listening to historical patriotic speeches. Do you have anything patriotic to say in view of today's reality in Bulgaria?! This is patriotism, not just raising slogans just for the past! I insist, even Mrs. Stoyanova and all of you to support this proposal so that it is not rejected, but to come out of the humiliating situation in which the Bulgarian Parliament is placed through you. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo" by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u147	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. A reverse opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u148	I'm making a reverse procedural proposal, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, honourable Members, I call on us to examine and vote on the Law at second reading. There is no danger that the government will fall due to the failure to implement this bill. I would like to say firmly that the Bulgarian government, regardless of whether the Agreement is unilateral and non-reciprocal, has a separate agreement with the United States to avoid double taxation, where there is a whole chapter where the Bulgarian government is regulated the possibility of receiving data from the US government. So if we want to illuminate CCB, we can also illuminate it through deposits and transfers to American banks. This agreement won't stop us. However, if we continue to persevere today and do not want to ratify this Agreement, we will put in an extremely disadvantageous situation not only the Bulgarian banks and foreign US investors on our territory, but we will put a problem in front of our country, as a country that is inconsistent in its policy, as one of the few countries that does not join the fight for tax evasion, the fight against capital transfer, the fight against the grey economy and money laundering. I will have the opportunity later in my speech to tell you what the historical references to how the Agreement was moving and who led us to the situation today to be forced to do unreciprocal ratification of this Law. [[Loud applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u149	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Yanaki Stoilov to postpone the vote. Vote 141 MPs: 32, against 95, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on the only member. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Rumen Gechev and Valeri Zablyanov. The Commission does not support their proposal. They voted 141 MPs: 33, against 90, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Chavdar Georgiev. The Commission does not support it. They voted 143 MPs: 32, against 91, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer as the sole member. The text shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 145 MPs: 114, against 28, abstention 3. The text of the importer as the only member supported by the Commission has been adopted. For a negative vote, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I voted strongly against this out of respect for myself, out of respect for the people who sent me here and out of respect for you, who on command voted for this humiliating agreement. I voted against it out of respect for my country and for the fissure of this country, which you do not think about. I wanted to answer some questions, but you obviously don't want to hear the truth. Why do our partners have no confidence and this gram is classified? Perhaps because in the previous GERB government there was a chief, a director of the NRA, who received some CDs from which nothing came and this information disappeared. [[The MPs from the parliamentary groups of GERB and the Reformation bloc are coming out of the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u151	Colleagues, please order in the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u152	For this reason, our partners clearly do not trust the Bulgarian government. American specialists in the financial crime sector have calculated that the US state will receive 800 million additional revenues. The costs are not clear what they will be. What will we get as a party to this Agreement? Of course nothing, because we're just not a country. Today is the date when we become the protectorate of the United States of America. No advantages, and we get nothing out of this signed Agreement. We are getting more than that. We are getting huge costs and commitments of the administration to provide information. And hidden, of course, necessary for the Bulgarian financial system information available to the United States of America. The effect for us will be negative, not zero. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u153	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. Second negative vote.. People's representative Velizar Enchev. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u154	Today, the Bulgarian Parliament has witnessed one of its most disgraceful votes. Today, the MPs from the right-wing bloc, first of all GERB party, the Patriotic Front and colleagues from other parliamentary groups in the middle and left, showed that they are vassals of the United States of America and showed that they are dependent as agents from the United States of America. Today is the disgrace of the Patriotic Front. As of today, the Patriotic Front...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u155	No offense to parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u156	No offense!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u157	As of today, the Patriotic Front must change its name and be called the Money Front. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] As of today, IMRO is not entitled to be called a revolutionary organization, but a traitorous organization. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Instead of replicating, you'd better stay in the room and... [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u158	Dear Mr. Enchev, on the grounds of art. 151 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I urge you to address with insulting words to the parliamentary groups in which MPs participate. Finish your speech. Those seconds of my involvement for your sake will be deducted from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u159	I am honored that you are giving me a remark and punishing me, because in today's day each of us should accept such a punishment, but to say such words to the MPs of this Parliament, who, despite the sound logic put forward by the MPs of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, first of all by Mr. Rumen Gechev, joined the vassals of the United States of America. Today you, on the right, who are absent from this room, but who very well observe my speech from this tribune, have been disgraced. And do you know what this vote looks like to me, as loud as it sounds historically? When, in 1941, in this Chamber, the MPs on the right, I said it during the adoption of the Declaration of 9 May, declared war on the United States and Britain, and, as a result, Mr. Bajraktarov, I address you as a representative of this coalition, thanks to this vote on the right side of the room Sofia was destroyed by the bombings of American and British aviation. On that day the Bulgarian MPs on the right committed national betrayal. Today you are doing the same betrayal, of course, with a reverse sign, to your current Euro-Atlantic partners. It's a disgrace to the right side of the hall! I said it on 9 May and I will repeat it again in the right part of the hall are people with extreme reactionary views, people who betray the interests of the Bulgarian people, people who serve foreign corporations [[the President signals that time has run out]] and this will be seen very soon after the agreements on the Transatlantic Agreement have been voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u160	Fifty seconds you're talking outside the time of the negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u161	Yes, thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u162	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Dear colleagues, a charity exhibition will be opened at the Club of the National Representative to help Mila see again the beauty at the initiative of our colleague Lyubomir Hristov. The exhibition presents 17 young artists from Shumen, Varna, Burgas and Veliko Tarnovo who collect funds for the treatment of the blind Mila who was injured in a traffic accident. All MPs are invited to support this noble initiative. Rest till 12:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u163	Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber. Colleagues, we're at second reading. Votes are coming up. There is clearly no quorum in the Chamber. Please invite the parliamentary groups' guides to invite colleagues to the Chamber. It is correct that Mr. Glauchev's remark that the manuals are gone too. Colleagues, let us congratulate the visiting group from Topolovgrad, who are attending the difficult assembly of the quorum in plenary. [[Applause.]] The hearing is ongoing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u164	Proposal of the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev for the creation of art. 2: Art. 2. The Council of Ministers shall be bound within the time limit laid down in Article. 1 hold negotiations in order to achieve equality and uniformity in the rights and obligations of the parties to the Agreement of art. 1.................................................................................. This is in connection with the one year he proposed under art. 1. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u165	Statements? Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u166	Madam President, honourable Members! My proposal is related to what we have spoken before the break.. within the one-year period to oblige the Council of Ministers to hold negotiations to achieve a level playing field with regard to the clauses of this Agreement. I support this proposal and I believe that it will enable... [[Relations of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u167	Please, Mrs. Stoyanova, do not prevent Mr. Georgiev from exposing his view.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u168	And I support this proposal, as it will really make the Agreement what it needs to meet international standards. If we are a sovereign state, if we want to validate our country internationally, we must allow the Council of Ministers to hold a new round of negotiations so that this Agreement can be corrected in the direction of equality of both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u169	Any lines to Mr. Georgiev? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u170	Thank you, Madam President. I think we should just make an editorial amendment, because we think it's not a bad proposal. Article 1 has already been voted on, so I propose an editorial amendment to read: instead of the term under art. 1........................................................................................................... And here to stress that Bulgaria is still a sovereign state and not to say if it is a sovereign state, it is a sovereign state, so it is right that at least here from the national representation this thing should be emphasized, and not to involve some other form of Bulgaria, which does not resemble any national representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u171	What exactly do you suggest, if you'd like to repeat it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u172	The editorial amendment shall be in the following form: instead of the term of office referred to in Article 1 (a), which has already been voted, and shall not exist in this form, within a period of one year. Within one year and the term in art. 1 to fall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u173	Any clarification on how long this one-year term will run from promulgation, from a vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u174	Naturally, from the date of the promulgation of the Ratification.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u175	Okay, thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u176	Mr. Bayraktarov, I am not opposed to what you proposed as the deadlines. I am opposed to one other thing that you said: if we are a sovereign state, do not use it. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the sovereignty of the state is not determined by its laws written on paper, but is determined by the behaviour of the Members of the National Assembly and by the policy they conduct. Therefore, I thank you for this proposal, but please bear in mind next time that the behaviour of the MPs determines whether a country is sovereign or subject to foreign interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u177	There is an act of international treaties to which we are a party, Mr. Ermenkov. Second line? I won't. Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Ermenkov, I accept your line because I did not really realize that there is a part that is missing and which is known to serve Turkish interests, unfortunately, so you may be right, but I believe that the vast majority of Bulgarian MPs are fulfilling the oath that they have taken here and are working in the interests of the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian state. And otherwise, yes, there really is one part. Fortunately, it is missing here today from the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u179	Any other MPs? Mrs. Stoyanova will speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u180	I am provoked by the lines and by the speeches to take the floor and to make a very brief review of the history of this Agreement, especially please the left part to hear me! On 9 January 2013, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period Second, the United States of America began negotiations by correspondence on 20 April 2013. With representatives of the U.S. Treasury Department, Mr. Brad Jorg. With him in these negotiations, Bulgaria is agreed to formulate its questions in writing regarding the interpretation and implementation of the Agreement, which will be concluded with the United States. Until 23 August 2013, the Bulgarian country received no response from the US government. Until the end of 2013 he continued to receive no response from the US government (report "Oresharski's government." On February 12, 2014 in connection with a telephone call, assistance from our embassy Mrs. Poptodorova, opens a conversation with the US Ministry of Finance, which makes it clear that they have decided not to conclude the FATCA Agreement with the Republic of Bulgaria. There are no reasons for this in this conversation. But later the Bulgarian government receives secret gram [[shows document]] . That's not her, I'm just waving her around, otherwise she's in the Secret Office. And if those who have spoken so far had read the secret gram, they would understand the reasons why the US government refuses to conclude the FATCA Agreement with Bulgaria, notice, during the Oresharski government. [[GERB lines.]] As they would have seen, it was said that negotiations could continue to clear up those problems that actually led the US government to seek a unilateral agreement. This is briefly, ladies and gentlemen, the background of the FATCA Agreement. I just want to say about my colleagues and something else. Initially, this Bill was adopted on 18 March 2010 in the United States of America and was a shortcut called FATCA. It generally limits the avoidance of taxes due in the US through offshore bank accounts in foreign financial institutions and applies to offshore companies. Given the positive effect of the international exchange of information on prevention and evasion of income and tax fraud, FATCA is part of the global efforts of governments around the world. Thus, it has consistently been approved as an automatic data exchange agreement within the OECD, the so-called World FATCA (World FATCA), not the American one who steps on this base. A little later, Directive 2014/107/EU amends Directive 2011/16/EU precisely as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, conditionally referred to as the "FATCA'. Therefore, FATCA initiates a number of obligations before financial institutions to identify and classify customers, as well as generating and processing data and information on their assets for the countries concerned. I would like to tell you that after efforts by the Bulgarian government, as well as pressure from the banking community, on 5 December the Bulgarian government signed the FATCA Agreement for Bulgaria and, therefore, on 23 April 2014, notice "April 2014," Bulgaria is included in the list of participating jurisdictions. In other words, it is treated as a country that has already concluded the Agreement, which is why there are no sanctions and requests for additional deductions and taxes to our financial institutions. That's the story, fellow Members. Do you think you should succumb to the populism of the very manipulative statements of fellow Members on the left, and should we accept their proposals?! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u181	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u182	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, incomprehensible to me was the tone with which you put your arguments. You said there was a time when the American side refused. You showed some very classified document. Without seeing him...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u183	He's in the D.C. You should've met him!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u184	Without seeing him, I'm asking you. They had distrust of someone at some point. Do they now continue to have distrust of the same state institution in order to hold their own and we agree to accept the Agreement unilaterally? Will you tell the majority who the institution in which they do not trust is if you want a comprehensive clarification of the circumstances? Will you be so kind, or will you be silent because of secrecy? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u185	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u186	Dear colleague, he is available upstairs in the Secret Office. Each of you could get acquainted with it and see exactly what the reasons are and how these reasons in time can be removed there, so don't make me from this stands violate the Classified Information Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u187	No, don't, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u188	No, I'm not going to do that. Don't worry, Madam President. I would like to continue and tell my fellow Members that if we accept the calls of our fellow Members on the left and today we do not vote on the Agreement, Bulgaria will be the only Member State of the European Union without an intergovernmental agreement. Bulgarian financial institutions will be treated as non-participants in FATCA, will be removed from the list of participating financial institutions around the world and will be sanctioned with 30% income tax with a source of US to their customers and since 2017. 30 per cent on each transaction. The access of Bulgarian financial institutions to international financial markets will be limited. The foreign financial institutions participating in FATCA, which have subsidiaries and branches in Bulgaria, and there are many, will be threatened because the status of non-participation in FATCA carries a risk to the entire international group. I don't want to say what the consequences might be. Bulgarian financial institutions will become extremely uncompetitive and will lose some of their clients and so on and so forth. If we want this to happen, we must accept the proposal of our fellow Members on the left. If we want to be worthy representatives of our chosen ones, we should protect economically by ratifying this Agreement and indeed continue to work on the fact that the countries of the European Union and beyond have confidence in our institutions. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u189	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. [[Reply from the MPs Atanas Merdjanov.]] Here you go, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, as you can imagine, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, we would like a roll call check before the vote. [[The members of BSP left Bulgaria leave the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u191	Members of the National Assembly, please remain in the Chamber. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and "Woo!", loud noise and lines, applause by GERB.]] Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valentin Stefanov Vasilev - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - absent Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - absent Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - here Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - here Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - absent Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - here Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - absent Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - absent Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - absent Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - absent Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - here Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - absent Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - absent Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - here In addition, Borislav Milanov, Borislav Borisov and Antony Trenchev entered the hall. One hundred thirty-six MPs are present in the hall during the inspection. There is a quorum. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal. 2 in the version of Mr. Chavdar Georgiev to read like this: The Council of Ministers shall be obliged within one year from the entry into force of the Law to hold negotiations in order to achieve equality and uniformity with the rights and obligations of the parties to the Agreement under art. 1.................................................................................. We vote on Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal. They voted 116 MPs: 23, Against 34, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Chavdar Georgiev's proposal "The Commission does not support this proposal." They voted 119 MPs: for 5, against 85, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u192	Proposal of the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev for the creation of art. 3: Art. 3. The Council of Ministers shall be bound within the time limit laid down in Article. 1 to review all international agreements, agreements and contracts of the Republic of Bulgaria signed after 1 January 2007 by the Council of Ministers or individual ministers to establish the possible existence of other international acts on which the Republic of Bulgaria is disadvantaged. In carrying out the review, an assessment of the conformity of acts with European Union law shall also be carried out. (2) When establishing international acts on which the Republic of Bulgaria is disadvantaged or contrary to the rules of European Union law, the Council of Ministers shall hold negotiations on their removal. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u193	Statements? [[The National Representative Chavdar Georgiev enters the hall. Noise, lines and shouts.]] Colleagues, please order in the court. Let's respect each other. Give Mr. Georgiev a chance. Mr. Georgiev, I gave you the floor. Yanaki Stoilov was distracting you and you didn't hear that I gave you the floor. I hope you will invite your parliamentary group to enter the Chamber and hear your speech. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u194	Thank you. Colleagues, this text has nothing to do with the conclusion of this Agreement and its ratification, so I call on you to adopt this text. This is a text that will enable and oblige the relevant authorities... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u195	Colleagues, please, I can't listen to Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u196	It will oblige the relevant authorities to carry out an inventory of the concluded international contracts and agreements and to establish whether there are any in need of renegotiate. That's the point of my proposal. Since it is in the interest of validating the legal order, in the interest of creating a non-controversial regulatory base, I am sure that you will support this proposal, for which I thank you in advance. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u197	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u198	Thank you, Madam President. I agree with what Mrs. Menda Stoyanova said earlier in her speech. However, we must strive to have a level playing field in international agreements and treaties. I see nothing wrong when we give the Bulgarian government, no matter what it is, to carry out such a check within a sufficiently normal one-year period for the contracts concluded, and where Bulgaria can improve its conditions, why the Council of Ministers should not do this and have this opportunity. Honourable Members, I am making a proposal for a version of the text, as it cannot be accepted anymore in this form. The editing is as follows: "In art. 3, para. 1 words within the term referred to in art. In the year following the date of the promulgation of the bill, the text is replaced by the text In para. 2 the words to hold the negotiations shall be replaced by the words to start the negotiations. What is wrong with allowing the government to have even a goat to win something better for Bulgaria and our people under equal conditions? Think about it, guys. There's nothing wrong with supporting the editorials we do. I hope common sense prevails. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u199	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. A statement? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Guys, I'm sorry I'm wasting time, but these things have to be said. The importer himself said he didn't belong in this bill. This is important to note. The second, Mr. Georgiev, I do not want to give you any advice at all, but we have graduated from the same faculty with you and we know that the laws govern lasting social relations. If you want to oblige the government with anything, submit a draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u201	A line? First line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u202	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I would object to the suggestion in this provision that the Republic of Bulgaria has regularly and widely concluded unequal contracts. My second objection concerns competences. This is a permanent, daily work of the Council of Ministers and of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. That is, they, both during negotiations, must respect equality and could subsequently analyse some or other provisions. Again, I object to the trendy suggestion that there is an inequality in all contracts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u203	Second line, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u204	Dear colleague Atanasov, precisely because the bills govern significant lasting public relations they should be reviewed periodically and those of them who have lost their meaning should be subject to the corresponding revision, correction, amendment or cancellation. I propose nothing more than what I just said to make a full review of the concluded international treaties. I didn't say your expression was that it had nothing to do with the respective agreement. I said it does not directly concern the content of the agreement concerned. Of course, in the course of this review, it can be found that what is offered to us for an Agreement and for ratification today may be disadvantaged, perhaps it will be contrary to European Union law and will be further subject to renegotiate and further ratification as an amended version. That is why I support my proposal and really ask all MPs to support it, as it gives the opportunity, as said by my colleague Bajraktarov, something good to happen in Bulgaria's regulatory base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u205	Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u206	Thank you, Madam President. I'm taking a line to thank Mr. Atanasov for his speech, albeit very briefly, and to ask all the lawyers in this Chamber to really intervene in such cases. Because, by writing texts in different laws, as in this case, a ratification law, we put it under art. Art. 2, Art. 3 and in it we write things, we simply lower the level of our lawmaking. We make laws that lawyers will laugh at. Once again, I thank Mr. Atanasov and call on the House not to accept the proposal made.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u207	A hole, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u208	I'll try to be really brief again. Colleague Georgiev, you said it yourself, but I would like to stress that what you are proposing is parliamentary control. Parliamentary control is carried out through questions, up-to-date issues, and the National Assembly may decide to oblige the government. It is not the place in the Law of what you offer. That's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u209	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal in art. 3 according to Mr. Chavdar Georgiev's proposal the Council of Ministers is obliged instead of the text. One year after the date of the promulgation of the Law. We are voting on Mr. Bayraktarov's first proposal. They voted 119 MPs: 19 against 50, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's second proposal in para. 2, the last line of the text of the Council of Ministers to start negotiations............................................................... the negotiations.................................... We vote on Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal. They voted 118 MPs: 16 against 41, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mr. Chavdar Georgiev's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 120 MPs: 10, against 84, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u210	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I ask you to make a proposal to vote on an extension of the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Bill amending the Customs Act by another seven days or the total maximum duration of the Regulations 21 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u211	The proposal has just been made by you, Mrs. Stoyanova. I am obliged to ask for a reverse opinion and to put your proposal to the vote. There's no reverse opinion. I put to the vote Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal to extend the deadline for proposals. Voted 118 MPs: 116, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u212	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, and I would like to propose an extension of the deadline for submission of proposals between first and second readings regarding the Bill on the direct participation of citizens in government and local government.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u213	How much?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u214	Seven days till next Thursday.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u215	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov. Vote 113 MPs: 111, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR SUBSERVIVE PROGRAMS. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2015. With the report of the Energy Committee, we will be introduced by its President, the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the hall of Mr. Zhecho Stankov "Deputy Minister of Energy," and Mrs. Ivelina Mihailova "Senior Inspector" at the Department of Natural Resources.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u217	Please vote on the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev for admission of those persons to the Chamber. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u218	♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures, No 502-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2015. At its regular meeting held on 28 May 2015, the Energy Commission examined at first reading a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Underground Treasures Act, No 502 01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2015. On behalf of the importer, the bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Mr. Zhecho Stankov, Deputy Minister of Energy. The draft Law removes the observations made by the Directorate-General for Environment and the European Commission on the transposition of Directive 2006/21 EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2006 on the management of waste from mining industries and amending Directive 2004/35 EC in national law. The notes were accepted as valid, which imposes the proposed amendment and supplement to the Law on Underground Treasures. In the Bill are unified the legal definitions of the concepts with which they deal with the directive and the Law on Underground Treasures. A procedure for information and participation of the public concerned in the authorisation of operators of mining waste facilities has been established by special rules. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held, the Energy Committee with 13 votes in favour, zero abstentions and 2 abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, on the basis of the first vote, the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Underground Treasures Act No 502-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u219	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. The report from the Committee on Environment and Water will introduce us to the People's Representative Cornelia Marinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u220	Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on the Environment and Waters on the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures, No 502-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2015. At its regular meeting held on 21 May 2015, the Environment and Water Commission examined at first reading the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Underground Treasures, No 502-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2015, allocated to the Energy Commission as the lead. On behalf of the importer, the bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Mr. Zhecho Stankov. The draft is proposed following an inquiry by the European Commission within the framework of the European Union's EU law project EU Pilot, removing the observations made by the Directorate-General for Environment and the European Commission on the transposition of Directive 2006/21/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2006 on the management of waste from mining industries and amending Directive 2004/35/EC in national legislation. Most of the comments made are considered justified, which imposes the amendment and supplement of the Underground Treasures Act, which governs material issues regarding mining waste management, and the corresponding amendment and addition to the Ordinance on the specific requirements for mining waste management governing the specific relationship. In the bill are unified the legal definitions of the concepts with which they deal with the directive and the Law on Underground Treasures. A procedure for information and participation of the public concerned in the authorisation of operators of mining waste facilities has been established by special rules. Attitude on the submitted bill took: MPs Chavdar Georgiev, Manol Genov, Stanislav Ivanov and Silvia Hubenova, received answers from Deputy Minister Zhecho Stankov. Following the end of the discussions, a vote was held in which the Committee on Environment and Water unanimously supported the draft and expressed the following: STATEMENT: He proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures, No 502-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u221	Thank you, dear Mrs. Marinova. With the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, Mrs. Hubenova will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u222	"COMMODITY" on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Underground Treasures Act No 502-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2015. At its meeting held on 27 May 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures No 502-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2015. The following representatives of the Ministry of Energy took part in the Commission meeting: Mr. Zhecho Stankov, Deputy Minister of Energy, as well as Mrs. Ivelina Mihailova, Senior Inspector at the Department of Natural Resources and. This bill aims to create conditions for the full and accurate transposition of Directive 2006/21/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2006 on the management of waste from mining industries and amending Directive 2004/35/EC (Directive in our national legislation). The directive has been transposed into the Bulgarian legislation by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures from 2008 and Regulation on the specific requirements for mining waste management, but after notification by the European Commission of inaccuracies and incompleteness in transposition, amendments and additions to national legislation are required. Their removal. The development of the bill is related to a request from the European Commission concerning the controversial texts in the Bulgarian legislation transposing the provisions of the Directive. Following an analysis of the findings made by the European Commission, most of the comments made by the European Commission are considered justified and the essential ones are reflected in this Draft Law. Some of the inaccuracies in the introduction of the Directive in our national legislation concern the legal definitions with which the Law on Underground Treasures works and the Ordinance on specific requirements for the management of underground riches, which is partly due to the incorrect translation into the Bulgarian language of the specific terminology used by the Directive, for which it is already requested to be corrected in the official translation into Bulgarian. Another group of identified inaccuracies concerns the approach adopted in transposition of legislation governing similar public relations, e.g. in the framework of EIA procedures. This has been taken into account as unacceptable to the European Commission because of the specific nature of relations related to the management of mining waste. The third group of European Commission remarks covers the narrowing of the scope of certain provisions of Directive 2006/21/EC due to the legal and technical approach in transposition, which should be adjusted to achieve full compliance of the national measure with European legislation. Last but not least, the Draft Law specifies the obligations of operators of mining waste facilities in relation to the protection of human environmental health. This does not limit, but specify their obligations. Special rules have laid down a procedure for informing and participating the public concerned in the authorisation of operators of mining waste facilities of category A and in the event of an accident for facilities of category A and including where the negative consequences may occur in the territory of other EU Member States. The correct procedure for generalising and providing information from the mandatory persons and competent authorities is also set out in order to duly fulfil the obligations for preparing a report to the Commission. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed by 12 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Underground Treasures Act No 502-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2015. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u223	Thank you, dear Mrs. Hubenova. On behalf of the importers, does anyone want to take an attitude? No. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. There are no speeches. I close the debates and put to the first vote Draft No 502-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2015. Vote 82 MPs: 79, none, abstention 3. Draft Law No 502-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2015, was adopted in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR RAIL TRANSPORT, No 502-01-34. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 29 April 2015 Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Name of the act:................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u225	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The text of the importer on the name of the Law is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, please, on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to allow Mr. Anton Ginev to be in the Chamber, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mr. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Legal Affairs in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u227	Honourable Members, please vote on the proposal made by the National Representative Grozdan Karadjov for admission of the persons designated by him in the Chamber. Vote 81 MPs: 74 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u228	Dear Mr President, I would like to make a procedural proposal to extend today's sitting until the vote on this bill is closed. [[Noise and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u229	No, I rather think that this proposal will shorten today's plenary session. Let's wait a little while, if that's okay with you, later. You're withdrawing the offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u230	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u231	I see that from 1 to 16 paragraphs there are no proposals and we can vote on them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u232	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer from 1 to 16 paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u233	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am making a procedural proposal that § 2 be voted on separately from the entire Law, as our group has a different opinion on this paragraph. I suggest you put it to the vote separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u235	You're holding on to § 2, is that it? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u237	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 1, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. The text of the importer for § 1 has been adopted in accordance with the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u238	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u239	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the text of the importer for § 2, which is supported by the Commission in its report. Vote 92 MPs: 83 against 8, abstention 1. The text of the importer for § 2 has been adopted in accordance with the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u240	The Commission shall support the importer's texts for paragraphs 3 to 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u241	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 3 to 16 by importer, which shall be supported by the Commission report. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The texts of the importer for paragraphs 3 to 16 including those supported by the Commission, in accordance with its report, have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u242	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 17 and shall propose the following wording: Seventeen. In § 52 of the Final Provisions of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Railway Transport Act (SG, No. 47, 2011) c. 2 is amended as follows: "2." Paragraph 46 concerning: (a) Art. 139 t. 1, 20, 21, 25 and 26, art. 140, t. Art. 8 and 10 and art. 143, which shall enter into force from 4 December 2014; (b) Art. 139 t. 2, 3, 5-12,15-19, 22 and 23, art. 140, t. Art. 1, 3-6 and 9 and art. 141, which shall enter into force from 4 December 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u243	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for the text of the importer under Paragraph 17 in accordance with the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. Paragraph 17 in accordance with the Commission's report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u244	'Concluding provision'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer on the name of the division and proposes the following version:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u245	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the Commission's version of the name of the division in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The Commission's recommendation for the name of the subdivision according to its report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u246	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u247	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 18, which is supported in the Commission report. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The text of the importer for § 18 in accordance with the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u248	The Commission proposes to establish § 19: "Seriously, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-11.u249	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 19 with the corresponding content on the Commission report. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 19 together with its content on the Commission's report has been adopted and the Second Reading Bill has also been adopted. Parliamentary control announcements on 12 June 2015 at 11:00 p.m., Friday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer three questions from the MPs Volen Siderov, and Atanas Merdjanov, who has two questions. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin will answer one question from the MPs Atanas Zafirov and Vasil Antonov. 3. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer two questions from the MPs Emil Dimitrov and Cornelia Ninova. 4. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva will answer three questions from the MPs Slavi Binev, Manol Genov, Georgi Turnovaliski and one question from the MP Chavdar Georgiev. 5. Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev will answer one question from the MP Slavi Binev. 6. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer three questions from the MPs Milen Mihov, Atanas Zafirov, and Volen Siderov. 7. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer two questions from the MP Borislav Iglev, who has two questions. 8. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer three questions from the MPs Slavi Binev two questions, and Georgi Kadiev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question written by the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski of a written answer from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question with a written answer from the MP Radan Kanev and a group of MPs. On the basis of art. 92, para. 4 of the CPNS due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons the responses to: - two questions from the MP Lyubomir Vladimirov to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva; - a question from the MP Lyubomir Vladimirov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin; - a question from the MP Martin Dimitrov to the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev; - two questions from the National Representative Stefan Kenov to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov; - two questions from the MP Stefan Kenov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova; - a question from the National Representative Ercan Ebatin to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva; - a question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva. Due to prior commitments at the parliamentary control meeting, Health Minister Petar Moskov, Economy Minister Bozidar Lukarski, Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova and Agriculture and Food Minister Desislava Taneva will not participate. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov, the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov and the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate. There are 18 questions, one question. The total number of questions and questions is 19. The necessary parliamentary time is 2 hours 57 minutes. Tomorrow we continue with the Project for a decision to extend the deadline for the submission of the report of the Temporary Committee of inquiry to examine the facts and circumstances related to the actions of state authorities and institutions which should have exercised control and counteracted the draining of the Corporate Commercial Bank in the period 2009-2014. The contributors of the report are Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. Tomorrow we continue at 9:00 and from 11:00 follows Parliamentary control. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
