ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u1	There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Come in for a procedure, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, on behalf of the Group of the Patriotic Front, I propose extending the time of today's meeting Friday, 24 April 2015, until the third item of the agenda is completed, as the vote and adoption of the draft decision on the recognition of genocide over Armenians is an extremely important point and it is important that Bulgaria enters into the European tone. As the European Parliament came up with a resolution, a number of European parliaments came up with resolutions recognising the Armenian genocide, we are also obliged to adopt item three and vote on such a decision of the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u3	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposed procedural proposal for extending the legislative activity of the National Assembly to debate and vote on item three of the programme for today. Voting regime, fellow Members. They voted 163 MPs: 65, against 32, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u4	Dear colleagues, today we have no right to remain silent. Today we have no right to abstain. Today we have to talk about the truth. Everyone in this room knows the truth. Under certain donations, which we may be talking about later, I see that here the GERB group abstained. Dear colleagues, please don't hold back! We all have friends of Armenian origin here. Everyone here in this room knows perfectly well about the grief of this great people. Please, let us not hold back on this day when we celebrate 100 years of this tragic anniversary. And here, please, now that we're voting, don't think about Kim Kardashian, think about your Armenian friends and so press the button. [[Noise and disapproving lines from GERB.]] I call on you to vote
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u5	Revoting, coworkers. [[National representatives of the DPS shall leave the plenary.]] They voted 167 MPs: for 70, against 33, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u6	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of art. 50, para. 7 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, makes a proposal to honor the victims of the first genocide in the 20th century with a one-minute silence the Armenians of the Ottoman Empire. As you know, on April 24th, today, the whole world honors those over a million and a half martyrs. It's not just about killing the Armenians, of course. Here we can talk about the Assyrians, about the Bulgarians. We propose by standing up, with a minute's silence to show our empathy with this tragedy, to which, unfortunately, the Bulgarian people were also subjected during five centuries of Turkish slavery. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u7	Colleagues, please speak to me. Under the provisions of our Rules of Procedure, which requires a proposal to honor with one-minute silence, two proposals have been submitted within the time limit. [[(National Representatives of BSP LB, Pf, RB, ABB,.....................................................................................................]] The first at the time is this from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, which has just been protected from you. The second proposal is by Mr. Desislav Chukolov, made yesterday, April 23, 2015, at 16.56 pm, which says: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 50, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that at the beginning of the plenary session on 24 April 2015 the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria should honor the victims, sorrow and suffering of the Armenian people with standing up and one-minute silence, following the genocide of the Ottoman Empire in the period 1915. [[National representatives of the parliamentary groups of BSP LB, Pf, RB, ABB,.......................................................................]] The two proposals are causally linked to an item on the agenda on which we have just had a vote on the debate and the vote on this point. The proposals are untimely made, therefore they cannot be respected. [[(Shouting by BSP LB:.....................................................................................................]] Mr. Kasabov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! Do you feel how ridiculous and untenable we are all together when we hear here that there is some kind of a rule from which we cannot pay our respects, the condolences of our loved ones and bow our heads to the 1.5 million. innocent victims. Do you understand what this is about? It's just crazy. Therefore, I urge you to stop with these cheap clichés, petty excuses, and all together to stand up and honor these people's memory. Victims and so on. Just to be worthy enough and true Bulgarians. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB, Pf, "Attack" and "RB."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kasabov. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u10	Dear colleagues, Madam President! I propose that we change the programme, both yesterday and item three, which is for today, namely the proposal of "Attack" to become point one. I call on those who are standing up at the moment to support this proposal of ours. [[Applause and screams "Bravo" by "Attack."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u11	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. [[The national representatives of the DPS Parliamentary Group shall enter the Chamber. Scandal by PF: "Erdogan! "]] Colleagues, please provide a normal atmosphere for work in plenary. Colleagues, at the very beginning, I've properly waited for everyone to be able to vote. Vote 157 MPs: 110 against 14, abstention 33. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from BSP LB, "Attack," PF and RB.]] Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! A few of us didn't get a vote. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. I'm among them, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u13	I would like to re-vote a proposal for a change on the agenda for today's plenary session: item one to discuss and vote on the draft decision by the Party of Ataka. [[Noise and lines.]] The proposal for a change in the agenda is by the "Attack". Mr. Chukolov did it. [[Heckling]] Guys, there's so much noise in the hall! We are doing a re-voting procedure for Mr. Chukolov's proposal as the first item in today's agenda to discuss the draft decision of the Party of Ataka. They voted 175 MPs: 115, against 34, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from BSP LB, "Attack," PF and RB.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I suggest point three, because after the change the first point became the third point to become point two. Please put this to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] The third point becomes the first point at the point that was imported. Now we suggest that it be point two.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u15	From which it follows that you keep your law on the ownership and use of agricultural land today to be regarded as point one?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u16	Point two. We just changed it, didn't we? ...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u17	Repeat again clearly about the shorthand with reference to the bill, because by points we will confuse it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u18	The National Assembly has just voted on point three to become point one. In this case, point one is likely to become point three. I suggest point three becomes point two. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u19	Mr. Hristov, once we have adopted a solution and the Project for a solution will be the first point of our programme for today, then the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land should be the point. In this case, do you maintain your request for a vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u20	No, I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u21	You're withdrawing him. [[The People's Representatives of the DPS are leaving the Chamber. Scanded by the group of PF: "Goodbye! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u22	Colleagues, please calm down and let's begin... Mr. Kanev, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u23	My fellow Members, in so far as our group has supported the change in the agenda and the export of the declaration as item one...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u24	The solution project.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u25	At the same time, we believe that the law on ownership and use of agricultural land is extremely important to vote today, I propose a procedure for extending the time until the vote on point one and point two.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u26	A reverse opinion? I put to the vote Mr. Kanev's proposal that Parliament work with an extended programme in his legislative activity until the vote and the... [[speaking indistinctly]] . You will also make your proposal, Mrs. Stoyanova. I'm voting on Mr. Kanev's proposal. They voted 130 MPs: 79, against 19, abstention 32. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Please put to the vote and item three to be examined today. Yesterday and the other day, I explained to all my colleagues that not accepting the Financial Markets Act and not publishing it by the end of April would have caused serious damage to public companies. I therefore insist that working hours continue until point three is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u28	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting for an extension of the legislative part of today's plenary session until the adoption of the bill proposed by Mrs. Stoyanova. They voted 145 MPs: 86, against 25, abstention 34. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u29	Madam President, just because we are in procedures, I allow myself to ask and request that you put to the vote on the grounds of art. 80, para. 1 sentence 3 - extension of the deadline for submission of proposals on the summary report on the Civil Procedure Code by three weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u30	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal for an extension of the deadline for proposals between the first and second readings under the GPC. They voted 146 MPs: 136 against 5, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u31	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka (the first item of today's agenda) to be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u32	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 118 MPs: 58, against 18, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I do not see anything disturbing the majority of the House by GERB to support its Europartners from Germany and Austria and nothing you can hide. After all, there are two television stations that transmit this and are broadcast live to Alpha and Channel 3 broadcast now live. Let's add the National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio. After all, being nationally responsible, more or less, not hiding. I'm doing a re-voting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u34	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 113 MPs: 56 against 19, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. We move on to point one. Project for a decision on recognition of genocide... [[National Representative Kalina Balabanov wants the floor for procedure.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u35	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be brief. I propose that we vote first, second and third points be directly transmitted on BNT and BNR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u36	We have already adopted a decision in part on your proposal, which is why it cannot be accepted and put to the vote. Moving on to point one: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO RECOGNIZE GENOCIDE AROUND THE ARMENS IN THE OSMANI IMPERIA 1915-1922. Reports of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Policy have been received. The report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights will introduce us to the President of the Commission Mr. Krasimir Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u37	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the draft decision on the recognition of genocide against Armenians in the Ottoman Empire 1915-1922, No 4540-02-6, submitted Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs On 27 October 2014, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No At a regular meeting held on 18 December 2014, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights examined and discussed the draft decision on the recognition of genocide against Armenians in the Ottoman Empire 1915-1922, No 454-02-6, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Milena Ivanova, Senior diplomatic officer, Department of Human Rights, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Atanas Slavov, Counselor of the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Daniela Belchina, State Expert at the Department of Justice, Normality and Projects. On behalf of the importer The draft decision was presented by the MP Stanislav Stanilov. He presented the motives of the importers, according to which the mass killing of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire in 1915-1922 was discussed by the world public in the course of World War I and to this day. The problem becomes particularly relevant after the Second World War, when the statements of crimes against humanity are formulated with documents. The beginning of the empathy of the Bulgarian society was expressed even after the end of World War I with the acceptance of 30 000 Armenians and the help to set up their lifestyle in the Bulgarian state. Most of the descendants of these Armenians still live in Bulgaria, are integrated in an impeccable way in Bulgarian life and represent the most loyal to the Bulgarian interests non-Bulgarian diaspora. The first countries recognised the genocide over the Armenians with a joint declaration of 24 May 1915 being France, Britain and Russia. In 1975, the U.S. Congress acknowledged genocide and obliged US presidents to send a condolence message to Armenians around the world every year on April 24th. The European Parliament recognised genocide in 1987. It was recognised at different times by the parliaments of Germany, Belgium, Italy, Sweden, Greece, Poland and Slovakia. The Republic of Bulgaria is undoubtedly late to officially and documentaryly recognise the genocide over the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire. Representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs stressed that genocide was codified as a crime under international law in 1948, with the adoption of the UN Convention on the Persecution and Punishment of Crime genocide. The Convention entered into force in January 1951 and has effect in the future, i.e. for events that took place after its entry into force. It has no retroactive effect on events that occurred before 1951. A decision of the National Assembly in the field of foreign policy related to events in other countries, including historical events, should be based mainly on the rules of international law. In a bilateral aspect of relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs takes the view that the adoption of such a decision would lead to a deterioration of the bilateral relations. A similar act would seriously harm the work of the Mixed Bulgarian-Turkish Commission, which aims to resolve a number of bilateral issues. The representative of the Ministry of Justice stated that the Minister of Justice has constitutional powers over the judiciary, but certainly does not have the authority to give and to make criminal legal qualifications for acts committed a whole century ago and their compliance with the international legal acts currently in force. There is no doubt that the Armenian people were subjected to mass repression in the Ottoman Empire, but the Bulgarian state expressed solidarity and fulfilled its humanitarian debt accepted thousands of Armenian refugees. It has provided conditions for their cultural, social and economic development. The Armenians were accepted as an equal part of the Bulgarian nation. At the same time, the memory of these tragic events should be preserved and the victims given should be honored. The National Assembly could, by having a political discussion on the substance of the proposal, accept or reject this draft decision, but even if it were formally adopted, such a decision would not have legal significance. In its opinion, the Ministry of Justice believes that the submitted draft decision contains moral and political assessments and therefore cannot be provided a legal and expert assessment of historical events. During the discussion, a large part of the members of the committee said that they supported the views of the two ministries with whom they had met in advance. An opinion was also expressed in favour of the draft decision. It was expressed that our country should show empathy for the tragedy of the Armenian people and because in 2015 it was 100 years since the beginning of repression a joint declaration was proposed to be proposed for a vote in the National Assembly. The majority of the members of the Commission supported the proposal for a joint declaration to be tabled, discussed and voted by the National Assembly. Following the debates held and the opinions expressed on the draft decision, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights with 1 vote...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u38	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. We will now hear the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Policy from Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u39	Madam President, honourable Members! "COMMODITY" on the draft decision on recognition of genocide against Armenians in the Ottoman Empire 1915, No 454-02-6, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs of the 27 October 2014 At a regular meeting held on 17 December 2014, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the draft decision on the recognition of genocide against Armenians in the Ottoman Empire 1915. "1922," No 454-02-6, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs. The reasons for the draft decision were presented by the MP from the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" Mr. Ilian Todorov. Representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs submitted an opinion on the draft decision. A decision of the National Assembly on foreign policy related to events in other countries, including historical events, should be in line with the rules of international law. Genocide was codified as a crime under international law in 1948 with the adoption of the UN Convention on the Persecution and Punishment of Crime genocide. This convention has no retroactive effect on events that occurred prior to its entry into force. Bulgaria and Turkey are parties to the 1950 Convention. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, established in 1998, places genocide under the jurisdiction of the court as one of the most serious crimes that cause concern for the entire international community. In accordance with the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, the court has jurisdiction over the crimes listed therein committed by persons and not by States. This principle of international criminal law, namely criminal jurisdiction for international offences to be applied to persons and not to countries, is universally recognised. The members of the Committee on Foreign Policy expressed positions in support and against the draft decision. On the one hand, it was discussed the need for events in the Ottoman Empire in the period 1915 to be categorically condemned. On the other hand, it was stressed that Bulgaria has expressed its attitude in due time with the acceptance of Armenian refugees. The possibility for the adoption of the so-defined draft decision to lead to internal and external confrontation, as well as to negative financial consequences for the country has been pointed out. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 7 votes......................... 4 votes against...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Now, on behalf of the importers, Mr. Chukolov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u41	Madam President, honourable Members! On today, when the world celebrates the 100th anniversary of this genocide held over the Armenian people, we of the Party of Atakas present to you our decision on the official recognition of the genocide over the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire and announce April 24th for the Memorial Day of its victims. Our motives are as follows. The mass massacre of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire in 1915 was discussed by the world public at all levels in the course of World War I itself and to this day. The problem became particularly up-to-date after World War II, when the statements of crimes against humanity were formulated by documents and............................................................................................. The general philosophy of the moral and legal framework of these titulas is to be declared outside the international, respectively the laws of individual states, all acts in military or peace time, which have led to violence or death for people who do not participate in military action, regardless of any argumentation. The motivation of most of these crimes with racial, ethnic and cultural differences, which mostly refers to crimes marked as genocide, in other words, targeted physical extermination of certain societies because of their otherness, formulated with general assessments of their place and role in a particular situation, is condemned. As you can see, with these motives that are written in this legal language, I can read them a lot more, we have clearly argued our desire and justification for this genocide to be recognised. As you know, the recognition of this genocide has been the fight of the Ataka Party since its creation. On 17 January 2006, the MPs from the National Assembly at Ataka had MPs who are now members of other political groups, we submitted this document here, in this Chamber, in the Fortyth National Assembly. It's like it's happening all over again. I remember then Lutvi Mestan, the MPs of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms just couldn't believe that he had entered plenary. Then we used the procedure under para. 8. They could not believe that it had entered the plenary and the Bulgarian Parliament would rule on this. They used such procedural moves again, they went in, they went out, they extended the debate to run out of time and not to accept any solution. I'm afraid that's what's gonna happen today, so I'm gonna make it quick. My call to you is to be as brief and brief as possible and to have time to accept this decision. This is a Battle of the Party of Attack, as I have told you since 2006. Then the National Assembly refused to make a decision on this issue. So eight times to the present day! Now, on this anniversary, I hope that happens. Over the years, such decisions have been taken by municipal councils in the Republic of Bulgaria, which are naturally supported by other groups in the respective municipal councils, just do what we hope to do here today, namely to solidarity with their Armenian brothers, people who, as you know, are integrated into the Bulgarian society, people who work for Bulgaria and feel Bulgarian citizens. Over the years, the European Parliament has had such a solution that recognises Armenian genocide. A number of countries in Europe "France, Russia, yesterday Austria, today, as we speak, this issue is addressed in the German Bundestag and they are deciding on this issue, which will once again be about recognising this genocide. We can't run from the truth! We have no right to do this! Today in the town of Yerevan, the capital of Armenia, are held memorial celebrations that mark this sad anniversary. They're marking it! On yesterday Mr. Siderov also spoke at this high forum where representatives from over 60 countries gathered. The world's public opinion is in this direction to recognise it, the truth cannot be hidden anymore. My call to you is to support this decision and to show that we are, in fact, a Bulgarian Parliament, not to succumb to pressure from foreign embassies, as attempts have been made over the past 10 years. Let's just be Bulgarians and vote jointly with our Armenians brothers. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, Members of Parliament. People's representative Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As we all know, on April 24, 2015, 100 years after the destruction of more than 1.5 million have been achieved. Armenians committed in the period 1915 by the youthful authorities and gained popularity such as Armenian genocide or Armenian holocaust. The repressions against the Armenian population began several years earlier, as early as the end of the 19th century, during the Armenian massacres of 1894 when mass killings of Armenians were committed in an attempt to suffocate the Armenian national movement. Victims during this period are about 300,000. The extermination of the Armenians from the beginning of the last century began in February 1915, when all 60 thousand. mobilized Armenian soldiers were imprisoned in labor camps and then killed. On April 24, 1915, in Istanbul and in most major cities of Turkey, almost all Armenian intellectuals and public figures were arrested and killed. The Armenians were forcibly deported to caravans, convoyed by Turkish soldiers, and were targeted on the road and subsequently killed in the camps, including by famine. Thus, more than 1.5 million were killed between 1895 and 1921. Armenian men, women and children, and many others have been displaced. The international community knew about these events, yet no one but the American ambassador to Turkey reacted. After the end of the war, Armenians were forced to emigrate to Bulgaria, to the Russian part of Armenia, to Western Europe, to North America and Australia. Today, in connection with Turkey's EU membership negotiations, the issue of recognition by the Turkish side of Armenian genocide is up to date and is once again on the attention of the European countries. In Turkey, the Nobel Prize Laureate for Literature Orhan Pamuk states in the press: "No one dares say it, but I say it "The Turks have killed a million Armenians and 30,000. Kurds. In 2008, Kurds. 200 Turkish intellectuals sign a petition apologizing for the ethnic cleansing of Armenians in World War I. This declaration was signed within a very short period of more than 30 thousand. Souls. In our country, the formal recognition process began in 2007 with the adoption of a declaration at the Municipal Council in Plovdiv, followed by the Municipal Council in Burgas, where the declaration was prepared by a wide range of municipal councilors from almost all parties. Part of the declarations drawn up are in this Parliament. The example was followed by municipal councils in the city of Ruse, Sofia, Shumen, Stara Zagora, Varna, Pazardzhik, Vidin, Dobrich, Silistra, Kyustendil, Karlovo, Lyaskovets and many other cities that recognized the genocide mass killings of Armenians. In the current 2015, on 24 April, the world celebrates the 100th anniversary of the tragic events that led to the extermination and extermination of millions of Armenians, Bulgarians, Assyrians, Greeks and others living on the territory of the then Ottoman Empire. In 1876 and in the period 1903 " 1922," unfortunately, the Bulgarian people also had a policy of destruction by the Ottoman Empire and the young Turkish government. The April Uprising in 1876, and the Ilinden-Preobrazhenska in 1903, were drowned in blood by the Ottoman authorities as the peaceful Bulgarian population was subjected to brutal massacres carried out by the regular army and Bashibozuk. Over 100,000. Bulgarians were killed and others were forced to leave their homes and all their belongings in Macedonia, Asia Minor, Eastern and Western Thrace and in the period 1903 to seek salvation as refugees within the Bulgarian state. These acts of the Ottoman Empire are documented with authentic historical materials and countless witnesses of the victims of the Bulgarians and of the media representatives from around the world, as well as by the international Carnegie Commission of Inquiry. But the Bulgarian people are empathetic to the tragedy of the slain Armenians not only because they were victims of such barbaric destruction, but also because, following the very Bulgarian hospitality, tolerance and empathy to other ethnicities and religions, they have given shelter and helped to save and shelter more than 70 thousand. Armenians fleeing the destruction of the Ottoman Empire. That is why, according to the human traditions of the Bulgarian people, by joining the position of the European Parliament, following European traditions and values and guided by the corresponding principles and applications under Resolution No 96 of the UN General Assembly of 11 December 1946, the UN Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crime genocide of 9 December 1948, the UN Convention on the Non-Corruption of War Crimes and Crimes against Humanity of 26 November 1968, as well as by the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights of 16 December 1966 and by all other international acts on Human Rights, we call on the MPs from all parliamentary groups in the current Forty-third Parliament on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the genocide against the Armenian people to demonstrate the necessary political will and to follow the example of the European Parliament and its political groups of the EPP, PES, ALDE and Conservatives to unite around the adoption of the Declaration of recognition and condemnation of the genocide of the Armenian Empire. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I won't. For the next speech, the People's Representative Valeri Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today is one of those days in the history of the Bulgarian Parliament that will remain. They will remain that the conscience of each MP is indeed the factor that will determine his decision. There is no doubt about the historical fact. No one denies the historical fact. Even the political representatives of modern Turkey do not deny the historical fact, but insist on a different interpretation than what modern European countries offer. [[Employees from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms enter the Chamber.]] Bulgaria is in a particular situation with regard to the tradition of Bulgarian-Turkish relations. It is long, complex and controversial and I think it should explain the difficulty of today's solution. However, it does not concern the Bulgarian-Turkish relations, but a historical period from which Turkey itself tried to push away, a historical period, which was crossed out by the Turkish Revolution and equalized the population of the Ottoman Empire in civil terms, creating modern Turkey. On this basis, Bulgarian-Turkish relations can only be developed on the basis of modern interstate modern relations. All attempts to set the dark precedents of World War I within the empires as conditions for the development of modern interstate relations are inappropriate. The massacre of a huge part of the Armenian people, although under World War I, is undoubtedly a barbaric act, a barbaric act of a crumbling empire, such as the Ottoman Empire. This act has been condemned by the modern European and world community. We have no reason to doubt the facts and the moral reasons for their recognition. Today we will not just join the decisions of other parliaments, as views are heard. Today we must join our own history. Today we must put a sign of equality between what happened to our people and the Armenian people. Today we must have the moral right to earn the moral right to celebrate April 20th without looking around; to mark the April Uprising without worrying. And when we find out that this is history, and when our Turkish neighbours are also aware of the fact that this is history, not a modern political fact, we can build or continue to develop those interstate relations that are necessary for the well-being of the Balkans and our two peoples. The recognition of genocide over the Armenian people is the condition that we enter the 21st century. 100 years is a long enough historical period for civilized peoples and societies to look elsewhere at their own history, come out of military opposition and civil conflicts and get into another state of relations. Today, unfortunately, there are no fewer examples in our modern world, in our surrounding world, where tens, hundreds and thousands of people become victims of war conflicts. The historical recognition of these facts, of Armenian genocide, is a prerequisite for reducing the contemporary victims of war, of modern victims of civil violence, of modern victims of barbaric political regimes. We see no reason for any free civic consciousness not to acknowledge this fact. We see no reason for 100 years after this event for the peoples of modern Europe not to step on it and create other conditions for dialogue and interstate relations. Bulgaria is a bridge between civilizations and this has happened historically. We cannot afford and have never allowed ourselves to be arrogant toward other nations. We never allowed ourselves to condemn other peoples. We've never allowed ourselves a tendency to treat other peoples. Today, therefore, we have every reason, as one of the nations, who, in the worst conditions of World War II, has done what is necessary to save the representatives of another people, to set another criterion for Europe as to what the relations between the peoples must be in the early 21st century. We cannot remain in the framework of World War I, in the framework of World War II. Genocides in the 20th century are a historical fact, and if they are not condemned today, they will also happen in the future. The responsibility of parliamentaryism is precisely that of the Bulgarian also. We of the Bulgarian Socialist Party would nevertheless like to see a common position of the Bulgarian Parliament and not of a political party, as an attempt to interpret this topic brings not very good taste in all history. We join this decision not for any other reason, but for its historical justice. It could have been formulated differently. It could be formulated with the participation of all political parties. Here the responsibility of the ruling political party GERB, which has the largest parliamentary group, is fundamental. They had to find the right text and option for this to happen in order to be acceptable to all parliamentary parties and to all MPs. I regret once again that we have to vote in such an atmosphere, something that is obvious. Restoring historical justice is a necessity. All parties claiming equality of citizens, safeguarding human rights, high European standards in terms of humanity and citizenship must join! If they do not, this means that there is a double standard, a selective understanding of the concept of rights of man, a selective understanding of which people can one and who can one for. I thank all the MPs who will support this decision. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u46	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. - What's the line? Mr. Chukolov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u47	Mr. Zablyanov, you are right. This should be the position of all political parties, but, unfortunately, over the years it has not been so. In the 40th National Assembly with the votes of BSP, NDSV and DPS, only the 40th Assembly with your votes has four times rejected the examination and voting of this draft decision. [[Reply.]] I am pleased that you have reached this level and I look forward to your vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u48	Second line? Mr. Zablyanov, would you like to use the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u49	Mr. Chukolov, political parties, societies and people mature. [[Applause by "Attacka."]] And secondly, today we have a very special occasion. Today we have a changed political situation in the world, today we have modern forms of genocide, something that ten years ago was not so! Ten years ago, on the European continent and in Eastern Europe, democracy was undisturbed! Today we have the rise of authoritarian regimes, we have a non-stop war in the Middle East and North Africa! We have a fundamentally changed political situation and a situation in terms of rights, in terms of civil liberties, which is being violated by the special services and by authoritarian regimes simultaneously throughout the world! Democracy is in retreat! The Bulgarian Socialist Party has never stood in a single position regardless of what is happening in the world! Politics is a dynamic category, so we do not accept such notes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u50	The word for speech is Mr. Stanislav Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u51	Madam President, honourable Members! What I brought to the stands, I didn't bring it to read to you. I didn't read my speeches. I brought it to show you. This is the address of 100 Bulgarian intellectuals, scientists, writers, artists and musicians to the National Assembly [[shows him]] , calling for such a declaration to be adopted to condemn the genocide against the Armenians. This is the first time this has happened. Until now, in all cases, when this problem has been discussed in the National Assembly, I have been going out on this stand to defend the cause of our Armenians brothers, because it is a cause just, a cause faithful, from the very beginning of its existence, the Party of Ataka has constantly posed this problem. Our opponents in all these debates have constantly highlighted the uncertainty of the historical springs and the lack of sufficient evidence for this. We argue that the historical documents are valid, that they are too numerous, that the sources are extremely secure. In these declarations we do not discuss history, honourable Members, discuss morality and international law, the right of people to live freely and not to be killed for no reason. We note that in this genocide against Armenians during World War I there was genocide over almost all Christians in the Ottoman Empire. Today, the former Ottoman Empire, the Republic of Turkey, is an ethnically clean state. The last Christian population in Istanbul was banished with violence in 1953. It's 20,000 Armenians and Greeks. It is described in detail by Orhan Pamuk in his book. Bear in mind that this policy has continued and after that a reflexive policy of uniformisation of the Turkish state, of its nation, to be ethnically clean. If there are other ethnicities there, then they are Muslims there are not Christians there, they count as several hundred. We, by proposing such a declaration, mean primarily the legal and mostly the moral nature. We think there's no reason to argue about the historical facts. Thirdly, we offer this declaration with the clear awareness that it is a pro-Bulgarian declaration, it is a Bulgarian declaration and it is a continuation of a process that has not yet been completed. This process, I have said before, is called the Bulgarian National Revolution. It continues and will continue until such a process is completed. Those who know well the history of the Bulgarians and the essence of the Bulgarian existence know very well that I am right that we at Ataka are right and that is why we are so persistently putting this problem on the table. Therefore, the adoption of such a declaration by the Government of the Republic of Turkey would put an end to the update, it would be the modernisation and Europeanisation of Turkey, and the transformation of Turkish society into a civilised European society. Until such a declaration is accepted and admitted, everything remains in distant Asia. The European Parliament itself has adopted the declaration by the majority of all parties. This means that the declaration is outpartisan, deideologic and is purely humane. With this argument for the purely humane nature of such a declaration, we of Ataka urged you to prove that the Bulgarians are Europeans that all Bulgarian citizens are not only those of the Bulgarian ethnicity, civilized people, humanists and therefore vote, accept this declaration. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u52	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. - What's the line? I won't. To address the public representative Jemma Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is 100 years old from April 24, 1915. A date traditionally accepted as a symbol of tragic events in the Ottoman Empire related to the deepening of the repression of the Armenian population, which became the subject of mass murder, banishment from their historical homeland and migration. I would like to stress that Bulgaria gives its unambiguous assessment of these events. Let me remind you that events have caused the mass exodus of Armenian population, with Bulgaria becoming a homeland for many of them. My colleagues and I share the high appreciation for the contribution of Bulgarian citizens of Armenian origin to the social and cultural life of our country. I refer to the good example that gives mutual respect and respect between our fellow citizens of Bulgarian, Armenian and Turkish origin, as well as the good interstate relations of the Republic of Bulgaria with Armenia and the Republic of Turkey. We also take into account the Protocol establishing diplomatic relations between the Republic of Armenia and the Republic of Turkey and the Protocol on the Development of Relations between the Republic of Armenia and the Republic of Turkey signed in Zurich on 9 October 2009. We also stress that one of the main objectives of today's European Union, in which the Republic of Bulgaria participates, is the prevention of crimes against humanity and the protection of human rights and freedoms. Through this speech, my fellow Members and I would like to pay tribute to the Armenian victims in the Ottoman Empire and our deep empathy to their heirs. I would like to stress the unwavering desire of the Bulgarian society, expressed by us too, for the preservation of the memory of the Armenian martyrs. In a spirit of solidarity and as an expression of historical justice, we join in celebrating the 100th anniversary of these tragic events. We reaffirm our support for preventing circumstances that create conditions for such future events and preventing them in our time. We take note of the statement by the President of the Republic of Turkey Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan on the events of 1915, as well as that of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey Mr. Davutoglu as a step in the right direction. We also support international calls for the Republic of Turkey to accept its past, and we believe that this would be a deeply humane act of moral compensation against the Armenian people. We support the efforts of the Republic of Armenia and the Republic of Turkey to use the successful examples of reconciliation between the European peoples and call for them to proceed to normalising their relations by ratifying without prior conditions the relevant protocols for establishing diplomatic relations. I would like to reiterate that the timely prevention of crimes against humanity should be among the main priorities of the international community, as well as of the European Union. It is essential that such crimes be prevented and immediate action taken to end them so as to stop the escalation of conflicts and future humanitarian crises. Thank you, colleagues. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u54	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Are there lines? I won't. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since the debates began on this point, I understand that here on the balcony of the plenary are also representatives of the Turkish Embassy, who have been released with omissions of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Just to say that, there's no doubt, that's their position. But I understand that here in the National Assembly building is Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. My procedure is to invite him to attend these debates in plenary. If he has anything to say, he should speak about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u56	Yeah, we'll invite him. Thank you. To make a statement there are the people's representatives Lutvi Mestan. Here you are, dear Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Human history is an endless string of large-scale tragedies that have taken the lives of millions of human beings. Today, we all owe compassion and sympathy to the victims, but modern politics should refrain from a selective approach because it has no right to a selective approach to historical events. The manifestation of political wisdom is in the complex, contradictory historical heritage not to consciously seek topics to oppose individual peoples today. The project for a decision by "Attack" aims precisely this "the exploitation of a historic topic of service of confrontational political behavior with today's dimension. Why is this selectivity, and it is by a political power whose leader in a number of his writings, books deny the greatest crime against humanity...................the Holocaust?! [[Noise and lines from "Attacka."]] Open the books of the leader of Ataka, dedicated to this topic. The question is not, therefore, what is the position of "Attack" today. She's been clear for years. The question is: what is the attitude of the other political forces to the draft decision proposed by The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will vote against the draft decision not because we deny the need for a general assessment of these events, but because we believe that the way to achieve, for the implementation of such a general assessment can be hampered by a false intervention of the Bulgarian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! I hold in my hands the list of national parliaments that have expressed their views on the subject. [[Shows.]] Take a look at this, in any case, we have expressed political assessments in the form of declarations. Many of these countries refrain from using the word "genocide" as an assessment of these events, but also in cases where this is used, it is a political position. I also appeal to colleagues from GERB, the Bulgarian Parliament today is the only one who discusses the draft decision, and the decisions within the meaning of the Bulgarian Constitution have the power of law, are not merely an expression of a political position. Think about it, why is there not an example of a national parliament committing itself to an act of law?! In fact, we need to be extremely precise.. there was one precedent, and this is the decision of the French Parliament, confirmed by the Senate, but not accidentally rejected by the Constitutional Court of France. Ladies and gentlemen! I address, above all, fellow experts, lawyers from all parliamentary groups. I will recall several very important paragraphs of the European Parliament resolution on European conscience and totalitarianism. There we read: "While the official political interpretation of the historical facts " " should not be imposed by majority decisions of the parliaments. " Secondly, whereas the official political interpretation of historical facts cannot be relied upon in relation to the past, it appears with the operative part that historical events can be assessed politically, but cannot be turned into a legal norm. That is why we are also pleading with the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, because it is unacceptable for historical assessments of the competences of science to become generally binding legal norms to sign the mandatory direction and content of thinking. Parliament can sign the rules of mandatory conduct, but not the rules of mandatory thinking. If you do not have enough position of the DPS, think again and read the resolution of the European Parliament. Who needs it today? We ask the extrapolation of the historical in modern dividing lines? Who needs this historical destructiveism? Moreover, given that we are a neighbour country of one of the countries in this conflict, the Republic of Turkey, with which we are in a common international treaty called NATO, and we are in a strategic partnership. I am not for a reason stressing this foreign policy aspect of the problem in order to call you on something else to read very carefully the position of the US President on the subject. The US president refrained from using the word genocide, and even in the geopolitical dimension of the case also referred to the status of the other party, which is in a joint military treaty with Russia, while Turkey is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty. We will vote against the draft decision precisely because we also refer to the European Parliament resolution, but for another reason, Bulgaria cannot be the first country, which, by decision, I stress, will assess these events, which will undoubtedly lead to a lasting deterioration of relations with a strategically important neighbouring country. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that only the rule that Parliament can make today is to put an end to these debates and to agree to the inadmissibility thesis with a draft decision to assess historical events. I will not enter into a series of other tragic historical events that, by the scale of the victims, are comparable to the events that are the subject of the debates today. You don't have an answer to the question why this selectivity is, do you? Moreover, I will not get into a dispute with speakers who said that almost modern Turkey is a uniform state where Christians do not live. This minimum is offensive to the Bulgarian Christian community in the Republic of Turkey, in Constantinople, in Istanbul because they received their church properties, they have their own not just any Bulgarian exarchate. [[Reply from "Attacka."]] You know very well the facts about the huge funds with which the Turkish state renovates not just any church, but exactly the Bulgarian church, the Iron Church of St. Stephen. Ladies and gentlemen, I know how strong the temptation today is to support the draft decision, because we are basically living in conditions of one, unfortunately, quite severe crisis of tolerance, which predates the boom of the national-popular moods in society. However, wisdom suggests that in history we seek the lesson rather than transform historical faults into modern political arguments. It's your decision, and it's your responsibility. Our position is clear. She's looking to the future with lessons learned from the past. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u58	- What's the line? First line....
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u59	Madam President, first of all, I would like to remind you that the Bulgarians in Istanbul, whose temple, and I think the hospital, were spent around 500 people. How many were there in 1921? About 50 grand. Why aren't they here? That is the question when we talk about historical facts. And so on and so forth. By the way, when we talk about legal facts, the word "resolution" exactly corresponds to the word "request." [[Laughter in DPS.]] Those who know English well know that this is a fact. I ask very much not to make equilibrics with the word by a man who knows the word well. Thirdly, I say we go back to the old debate battle and start talking about history. We are not talking about history, we are talking about firmly established facts and their moral and international-legal assessment. History is said in the previous documentation when we tabled such a draft decision. We've been enumerating historical facts, we've stopped enumerating them. We list historical evidence and historical witnesses, people who participated in World War I who were in Turkey, German officers who were allies of Turkey who were present in Turkey. These are perfect historical springs. I'm not a historian. I am an archeologist, which is not the same, but there are professional historians here who know what the validity of the historical document means. We're talking about morality. We're talking about morality at the highest spiritual level. For this reason, there is no point here in dealing with and juding to historical facts. Four... [[Descriptions from DPS: "Search, time." A signal from the President that the time has passed.]] I'm coming, Madam President. Just two more sentences. Since all colleagues in charge of Mr. Mestan claim to be liberals that they are members of the Liberal Alliance, let us note that the liberal parties in the Alliance have always, everywhere, and in the European Parliament, voted for recognition of the Armenian genocide. And if you are liberals and think well of your country, the Republic of Turkey, you will vote for the country and not against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u60	Thank you. Second line: Ilian Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Mestan, we from Ataka will provide you with a copy of all the books of our leader Volen Siderov, of course, without autograph. [[crowd cheering in the hall.]] And when you read them, I would love for you to come and show exactly where Mr. Siderov denies the Holocaust and the persecution against the Jewish people, because at the moment you fooled the whole public and the whole room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u62	Third line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u63	Thank you, Madam President. I expected you to hear not who doesn't deny what, but who confesses what. You don't want to admit the holocaust. I've read the books, and that's the terribly sad conclusion that implicates you with absolute selectivity. The question is whether the other Members from the other parliamentary groups will participate in this. I promised I would not be tempted to comment on historical facts, but on the first line, without going into the specifics, I will express the thesis in the form of a question. Do you know how far we'll go if we dig into the historical facts in order to transform them into modern political arguments? You are a historian and you will probably tell the Chamber why and for what reasons Hitler has recognised the status of belonging to the Aryan race of whom and why. You're already busy here, aren't you?! You know what I'm talking about! So it's better to refrain from knowingly digging into history, say we have the right to appreciate history. However, turning historical assessments into a general rule of conduct and thinking is absolutely unacceptable and in this regard the Bulgarian Parliament risks making an exception today. And for the difference between a resolution and a solution, the very fact that you do not refer to this difference is a question of your own scientist's modus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u64	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Go ahead, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u65	Madam President, honourable Members, I propose that an editorial amendment of the name of the Decision be done as follows: "A decision" on the recognition of mass destruction of the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire in 1915. 1. Admits the mass extermination of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire and announces April 24th as the Memorial Day of His Victims.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u66	That was basically a statement. Are there lines? Mrs. Tasheva, first line. [[Heckling]] That's why I said it was basically a statement because there was no procedure. That was the content of the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u67	Colleagues, I am making a reverse proposal, and I would like to remind Mrs Karayancheva that what she calls a mass extermination or mass extermination was used 70 years ago as a definition of the concept of the concept of "genocide." In the Ottoman Empire was committed genocide against Armenians, Assyrians, non-Asian Greeks, Bulgarians for one single sign, for one single reason And after these mass massacres that pass on several waves, let's not forget the mass massacres of Hamidier at the end of the 19th century, after they have served as a definition of genocide, the UN says: "Behold, what happened to the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire, this is a genocide. We don't have the right to edit the UN. As for terminology, I am very entertained whenever Mr. Lutvi Mestan tries to get Parliament into some case studies to postpone or prevent the adoption of a law that is not beneficial to our southeastern neighbour. I want to tell him that many parliaments have accepted and condemned the genocide of Christians in the Ottoman Empire by their own act and this act is called a resolution. A resolution in translation means a solution. I can give you, for example, House Resolution No. 106 of 30 January 2007, which was adopted by the Lower House of the American Congress. Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva, for waiting for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u68	Second line, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Ms. Karayancheva, no matter what editorials you will make of the text, the vice is in the act that the agenda is Draft decision. Because you like to refer to practices of other parliaments, and today the most widely discussed topic is the act of the Austrian Parliament, let me tell you that there is no act of the Austrian Parliament. There's a declaration signed by the leaders that hasn't even been voted on, but announced. You make the difference between a declaration and a decision, don't you?! Indeed, I call for the expertise of the lawyers in plenary to assist the efforts of the National Assembly in order to save the Bulgarian Parliament a terrible mistake. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u70	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Procedure. "Daniel Kirilov."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u71	Madam President, on behalf of a parliamentary group and on the basis of art. 61, para. 2 please interrupt the meeting in 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u72	Break 15 minutes. We'll continue at 10.50. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u73	Colleagues, please take your seats, the meeting is ongoing. From colleagues who have signed up for the speech so far, Mr. Boris Stanimirov from the group of the Reformation Block is next. Here you go, Mr. Stanimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, dear descendants of the displaced Armenians in Bulgaria! I do not like today's debate to be a discussion between the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the Party. I do not like today's debate to be a discussion about the relations of the Republic of Bulgaria with the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Armenia, because the essence of today's debate is not so. The decision we are about to make is a decision, not of bilateral relations and not of party struggles, but a decision on our European identity, on European morality and on European values. European values say to remember and demand. Remember and demand memorable records for the victims of Armenian genocide. Remembering and demanding for the victims of Gladomora in Ukraine, remembering and demanding for the victims of the Holocaust, for the Thracian Bulgarians, for the Bulgarians within the Soviet Union, which Stalin migrated in different directions several times. This is European behavior. Everything else is hiding and lowering in Todorzhivkovsky. I would like to read just one sentence from the resolution of the European Parliament of 15 April 2015, voted by everyone, I repeat, by all the parliamentary groups in the European Parliament with a huge majority. It postulates the following: the European Parliament pays tribute to the memory of 1.5 million. innocent Armenian victims. Joins the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Armenian genocide, I repeat, genocide in the spirit of European solidarity and justice. Colleagues from GERB, I would like to read to you from the first sentence of the Resolution of the European People's Party (EPP), adopted by a majority on 3 March 2015 in Brussels: the People's Party of Europe condemns the acts of genocide against the Armenian people, planned and carried out by the Ottoman Empire and so on. You know what the best part is? That whatever we decide today, whatever we call it, Europe has already clearly acknowledged Armenian genocide. We can only choose whether to be part of the common flow of European behavior or to follow it, as we often do. But one thing is for sure when it comes to the memory of a million and a half innocent killed, the position of abstention is not possible. [[Applause from RB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u75	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleagues of the Reformation bloc, I believe there was a break in which there was a Chairmanial Council. When we really want to reach a consensus, to be able to honor the historical facts, I would like to point out to you first of all that we need to look at the present and future of our country and know where we are and what global geopolitical problems are today. Let us avoid a bit of populism and anyone who wants to make some PR on the back of the Bulgarian Parliament or the Parliamentary Group of GERB. I strongly state that the GERB Parliamentary Group will support any decision leading to political consensus, any decision that takes into account the historical facts, but any behaviour of the GERB Parliamentary Group is nationally responsible. Please, when you come out and speak from the stand of the Bulgarian Parliament, do not mention in this aspect the political party GERB! Because the political party GERB bears all political responsibility for today's governance and every good solution, every good policy is shared with everyone. Each negative is immediately shared only by the political party GERB. That is why the political party GERB today had a behaviour that perhaps someone interprets it as a political retreat, but a political party GERB has a behaviour that is nationally responsible and we strive to preserve both the sovereignty of our country to be part of the European Union and NATO, but to be good neighbours with all the countries that are in the territory of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u77	Second line? I won't. Would you like to use the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u78	Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, you and I often stand next to each other on the political assemblies of the EPP and I have not at one time had any doubt that today, as well as there, the Reformation Block and GERB will vote responsibly, will vote as European parties and part of the most influential political family, and that our Parliament will have the dignity to find a maximum consensus solution that honors the memory of the killed and takes into account the historical facts and the realities of today in Europe.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u79	The word for speech is Mr. Julian Angelov of the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it really should not be the debate today which party she has done over the years. The conversation and the debate should have been based on the fact that there was such an extermination of a million and a half Armenians in the Ottoman Empire and not only of several hundred thousand Assyrians, as well as of Bulgarians, as well as of Karamanli, as well as of other Christian nationalities that were at that time in the Ottoman Empire. Therefore, in good tone I will say a few words that during all these years of transition in the topic of recognition of genocide against the Armenians were also involved representatives, who are both from the Reformers, both from GERB, from BSP, from ABB, and from the Patriotic Front, TV SKAT, VMRO and "Ataka" including representatives from the Bulgarian Democratic Center. So this struggle over the years, in various forms, in municipal councils, in parliament or as declarations expressed by political parties or politicians, has been the subject of a common case. So, indeed, and on my behalf, I call on all of us to be united in a common position and to recognise this shameful act, because we know what region of the world we live in. If we continue to share in such and those or who are more deserving or less deserving of a subject, we will do nothing good for Bulgaria or the Bulgarian people. That is why I, as a representative of the Patriotic Front and as IMRO's organizing secretary, say: I will vote for the recognition of Armenian genocide because it is a fact that the world does not deny, the world confirms. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u81	- What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u82	Madam President, colleagues! On the basis of art. 85, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly just a week ago on 17 April, I submitted a draft declaration by the National Assembly, which condemns the genocide of the Armenian people that took place a hundred years ago. I offer your attention and then I propose that you vote on this declaration: DECLARATION in memory of the victims of the Armenian genocide in the Ottoman Empire in 1915. The National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria joined the European Parliament's decision to declare 24 April a European day in memory of the victims of genocide over the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire in 1915. We call on the Government of the Republic of Turkey to recognise this tragic fact, which will initiate a process of national reconciliation and normalization of relations with the Republic of Armenia. The National Assembly welcomed the statements of Turkish President Recep Erdogan and Prime Minister Ahmed Davutoglu, who gave condolences and acknowledged the crimes committed against the Ottoman Armenians, which is a step in the right direction. Honoring the victims of the genocide in 1915, recognized also by Pope Francis, the National Assembly reminded the world public that in the second half of the 19th century the Bulgarian people became victims of the bloody repression of the April uprising, and in 2013 they became 100 years of the drama of the Thracian Bulgarians when Western Thrace was brought to ruin. The National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria supports the call of a hundred Bulgarian artists of culture, art, science for recognition of the genocide of Armenians committed a hundred years ago. With this act we join the already adopted declarations on this issue from France, Canada, Greece, Russia, Belgium, Sweden, Switzerland, Cyprus, Poland, Lithuania, Scotland, Slovakia and other countries and international institutions, as well as from municipal councils in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Bulgarian Parliament believes that history should be a source of wisdom and unity, history must be remembered to learn lessons from it and not to repeat human tragedies. I suggest that your attention be put to the vote on this declaration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u83	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. The National Assembly shall adopt various types of acts according to the current Constitution and our Rules of Procedure. The draft decision, the bill, the address, the declaration are four separate acts. On the agenda of the weekly programme for this plenary week of the National Assembly we have included There is no item on the draft declaration agenda. It is true that you have such a declaration that you have just introduced us to. A similar declaration is made by the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front. They are allocated under the rules of the Committee on Foreign Policy, from which the Commission has not yet received a report, but what is important is that the declaration is not included in our weekly programme and is another point that we are currently debating, so there is no way that your project, which you have introduced us to, will be put to the vote. Any lines to Mr. Enchev's statement? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Milen Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am obliged to take the floor and declare that I am a Member of Parliament from the Patriotic Front and from the Bulgarian National Movement. I am obliged to declare that I am speaking as a Member of Parliament from the Patriotic Front and from the Bulgarian National Movement. 25 years ago, an organization that restored the Union of Macedonian companies to the organization of refugees from the Ottoman Empire. Today we have to put an end to a historic process with an extremely long history. The assessment of events in the Ottoman Empire regarding the Armenian people has long been given categorically by the Bulgarian society. It is given with the support of the refugees who came to my country, given with the attitude of generations of Bulgarians, given with that wonderful attitude of the heirs of Armenian refugees to the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian people. Most beautifully this assessment is expressed in the verses of the genius poet "Armentzi":...a small of always brave people martyr............................................................................................ Peyo Kracholov Yavorov is not only a genius poet, but he is also the actor of that organization whose heirs we are here today in the Bulgarian Parliament. Ironically, or by God's will here in this Chamber stands the successor of these people, to this courageous people a martyr who sang some of the most beautiful songs and poems in Bulgarian. We are obliged to put an end to this decision of the long-standing sentence for genocide against the Armenian people. Today, it is the responsibility of all MPs to both the past and the future. I would ask a question to those who declared that they would not support this decision. What do you have to do with the Ottoman Empire? So your ancestors, when they signed the Tarnovo Constitution and met in this hall, the regime of bloody Sultan Abdul Hamid prevailed in the Ottoman Empire! Your grandfathers fought with my grandfathers on the battlefields of the Balkans in the name of Mother Bulgaria! Patriotism, European values, are not defended by declarations, but by deeds. Today you must prove whether you are patriots, whether you condemn crimes of which there is no statute of limitations, or whether you are what we have always claimed. Today, the issue is not only to adopt this decision, but to adopt it by consensus, because no one, not from close or far away, can put the Bulgarian Parliament under threat and dictate its will. Today we need consent. An agreement the Patriot Front has always insisted on. A consensus that makes us strong and is written in our parliament. Today we ask our neighbours: what do you have in common with the Ottoman Empire and its crimes against the Armenian people? What is it to you that concerns you with a 100-year statute of limitations, and who can with a 100-year statute of limitations give an ultimatum to our parliament?! Therefore, consent must be transformed into consensus. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u85	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Korman Ismailov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will begin with a rhetorical question, listening to the debates, interested more or less, examining this topic: is it possible to debate history, but by removing and getting rid of politics? This in our geographical latitudes, not only in the Balkans, but all the width and in many regions, seems impossible. Because in history, especially during periods of empire decay, the peoples in their struggle for a national existence to build and rebuild countries and cultures, many and many different tragedies have been experienced...................in ethnic cleansings, killings, rapes, genocides and any other repression. And thinking about today and the future, as colleagues have expressed here, how we can plan a better common future for everyone. With our historians and politicians, we cannot reach consensus on historical issues of cases in history concerning wars, who has moved how much, who has renamed who in the Caucasus, whether in Armenia, Azerbaijan, the Ottoman Empire, Bulgaria, Macedonia and so on in all geographical latitudes. I am also very skeptical of historians who are in politics and politicians who are confused about historical science. I try not to take much into account their opinion, but when we think about the future, we spoke to my colleague a little while ago, one strategy to form our vision of a better future is to go back to the past, perhaps in these times of defeats, of terror and to seek agreement and way forward. Yes, everything must be said as it has been everywhere, bow to all the victims of all repression, terror, genocide and so on. I stand with humility on every day of honor to one or the other, praying for the souls of all who have been unjustly killed, killed, subject to repressive policies of different countries in different periods of different ethnicities. The next point is: we can't go further into the future -- 50 -- 60 years ahead, and from there, looking at 2020 -- 2025 -- so plan our strategy and our future. Both approaches may not be effective enough and will not give full understanding and consensus to politicians to have a common vision. At the moment, I do not feel and cannot accept the responsibility of being a member in the role of some tribunal to judge. I cannot tell exactly what the benefits of the well-being and better relations between the two neighbours and the friendly people of Armenia and Turkey are when we debate and take part in this topic. It is difficult for me to judge, and I can now guess what the benefits and losses will be for our country forward in our relationship from now on, which means there are many issues and the burden is very heavy. So my position is that we really need to be very responsible. I will surely have a decision other than many of my colleagues, but my desire is to put these pains behind me, to bury these hatchets and to think of the common future as in history the place of wars, of repression and genocide is minimized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u87	Thank you, Mr. Ismailov. - What's the line? Mr. Kazak, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ismailov, we are reading your position. That's very nice of you to say, but your thesis on the future, your appeal to turn to the future how you combine it with the fact that right now you and your political power, your coalition, are in a fraternal embrace with an ultranationalist, xenophobic political force such as the Patriotic Front? How we will look together towards the future, how we will build an understanding when such political forces as your coalition partner push Bulgaria precisely in the opposite direction, and precisely because of the position of your coalition, the Patriotic Front, today a xenophobic, ultranationalist, populist coalition, is part of the government [[(beeps) (beeps) (beeps) (beeps) (beeps)]] , sustain this government and lead us to these debates, including today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u89	Second line? A hole, Mr. Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u90	Dear Mr. Kazak, thank you for the line. My answer is very short in the same way, with the same motives that you have managed and were in a coalition with "Attack." Thank you. [[Applause, laughter and excitement in the right part of the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u91	Mrs. Krasimira Kovachka has the floor to speak. Are there any other MPs who would like to speak?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have a proposal for editorial changes in the draft decision. We propose to remove the following text from the Project for a Decision: The act fully corresponds to the composition of the United Nations decrees: Convention for the Persecution and Punishment of the Crime Genocide And the last part of the text of the sentence: by joining the position of the European Parliament in supporting this dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, perhaps we should and it is time to reach consensus on the subject, enough debate and proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u93	- What's the line? I won't. The word is Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u94	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to support the edit Mrs Kovachka submitted in the draft decision. I want to support it with the belief that it is the reasonable intersection between the national responsible position and the historical truth. Anything less than today as a decision of the Bulgarian Parliament would be an escape from historical truth. Anything more than that, unfortunately, would be, first of all, a tearing of consent within the Bulgarian nation and, second of all, an overestimate of the real geopolitical opportunities of Bulgaria. We need to know where we are on the map. I thank Mrs. Kovatchka and the colleagues who have assisted her with the opportunity to vote on such an amendment today. A few more words on the substance of the proposal for a solution and of today's debate. For me this is a historic day in Bulgaria and it is a very important personal moment because I come before you as an heir in one line of Bulgarian Jews. I wouldn't be in this room if the Bulgarian nation hadn't saved their Jews. On my other family line I come out as the successor of the people's representative from Varna Nikola Kanev, who here, from this tribune, before 107 years, has strongly opposed a bill providing for Armenian refugees in Bulgaria not to have the right to buy agricultural land. There was such a bill and an almost assembled majority around it. As a representative of this strong and progressive part of the Bulgarian society, which twice at the end of the 19th century and during the period of World War I, has adopted a huge wave of Armenian refugees without even putting on the moral foundation of this act, without putting the least doubt, if you will, the benefits for a modern and human state of showing its humanity to other people. I also come out as a direct successor to numerous victims of political violence and the communist regime in Bulgaria. I think that we should pay the bill both in Bulgarian society and we and all our close neighbours in Southeast Europe and the Black Sea basin throughout the 20th century are victims of horrific political violence. We need to get out of a spiral that lasted in Bulgaria for more than 100 years, in other places that continue to date. On the north coast of the Black Sea, these horrors that took place during World War I and the Civil War in Russia continue today several hundred kilometers from our border. And to answer, can silence on historical facts be what will bring us out of the spiral of violence within our societies between different ethnic groups in our societies and our torn-up borders over the last centuries of war? Could silence be the treatment, as we have tried on this subject for two decades, to be the treatment for the historic wound? I want to give you the answer, which is mine and the Reformation Block, the silence cannot be the treatment of political violence. The denial of truth, the veneration of truth, the recognition of truth can be a treatment and has proved within the European Union and the European countries that it can be a treatment of heavier even than our historical wounds. For this reason, I am convinced that these issues must be spoken of, the outcome must be sought. I would welcome any moment when the right-wings in Bulgarian politics recognise political violence committed by right-wing governments because there are many such examples. I would expect the left in Bulgarian politics to finally recognise the real nature of the political regime after 1944. I would welcome any moment when the Bulgarian state recognises historical responsibility for the acts of its official bodies, armies, paramilitary organizations atrocities. As we acknowledged the Revival Process, we need to open our history textbooks to some things that took place in the Balkans in 1912 and whose victims are Bulgarian Turks and Bulgarian Muslims. We need to be ready to tell the truth at any given time and at any given moment to be ready to ask for the truth. For this reason, I think today is historic. Because today the Bulgarian Parliament will gather up the courage to be honest with history not only with its citizens of Armenian origin, not just with other victims in this period of history, but to be honest with our present-day neighbours, to our contemporaries in the Black Sea region, to our tomorrow's neighbours. Because what we are voting on today is not just an act of reconciliation with the historical past. What we are going to vote on today is an act of reconciliation between the opposing peoples of the Black Sea Basin. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u95	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am going out to express my support for Mrs Kovachka's editing, which is an edit that allows the convergence of the positions of all political forces, as I believe that this act of recognition of the extermination of 1.5 million. Armenians should really produce a national agreement, and should not be partied and become something of a private property of individual political forces. As a man tempted by history, let us admit that Bulgaria participated in the massacre of World War I together with the German Empire, the Austro-Hungarian Empire and the Ottoman Empire. The Bulgarian people have always been humane. Even in the violent years of military action we have shown that the Bulgarian is humane and humane. Let us not forget that during World War I Bulgaria has fed 167 thousand. The prisoner, for the English officers in Karlovo, built an English church and built a library. Let's not forget what we left in Tutrakan the Tutrakan Epic, when on September 6, 1916, they died and were injured over 8,000. Bulgarians in Tutrakan's attack died 25 thousand. Romanians who are our opponents die Germans and Turks who are our allies. They are buried in a common military cemetery, the largest in Bulgaria. This is the height of Bulgarian humanism and patriotism, because of this brotherly mound stands the inscription in Bulgarian, German, Romanian and Turkish: "To those who knew to die for their country! So I call once again on you to a national agreement and consensus on such an important subject that for decades now no decision can be taken. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u97	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? [[Reply from MP Desislav Chukolov.]] Do you have time from your group?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u98	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u99	Mr. Chukolov, 1.40 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u100	My fellow Members, as importers of this decision, I would like to thank each and every one of you for your speeches. At the same time, however, as initiators, authors, importers strongly oppose the two proposals that have been made, namely, for dropping the reference to the two UN conventions and for changing the word "genocide" and replacing it with the words "mass extermination." In this way, we are actually telling the descendants of these Armenians that they cannot in any way seek their rights from the Turkish state for what it has done to them. Here are the conventions before me. Boyko Borisov said in the couloirs a mass extermination. I know you are trying to soften the reaction from the Turkish state, but this again shows that we are complying with Turkey. Let us comply with Bulgaria! Let's not neuter this decision by attacking. Believe me, with this decision we will do so that there will be genocide for communities such as the Jewish one, and for Armenian one will be different and in a way in which they cannot seek their rights before the relevant courts. My appeal to you as an importer is: please do not support the proposals that have been made for dropping UN conventions. I want the word "genocide" to remain, not to be replaced by the words "mass extermination." [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u101	- What's the line? Mr. Kanev, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u102	Mr. Chukolov, since this message has been expected from you, I am addressing the group of "Attack" and, to a large extent, the group of the DPS, which would hardly support this decision. Put aside the international legal terminology. We are here fighting for the Bulgarian Parliament to face the truth, to call on the Turkish and Armenian countries that are historically close to us to face the truth, not international law. Don't involve compensation. Do not enter into legal case studies, because you will be answered by what most of the negatives of the Armenian genocide use, that the term "genocide" was introduced after 1915 and you cannot use it. He's gonna put you where the victims don't deserve to have this debate. Vote for the truth, not for legal terms! [[Single applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u103	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u104	Dear colleagues, you have known over the years in this Chamber how every European directive, every decision of the European Parliament, of a corresponding European structure, literally copied it here and is translated into our decision or Bulgarian law. How many times have I gone out on this platform and asked you from both the DPS and all the parliamentary groups: decisions that contradict the Bulgarian national identity, the Bulgarian morality, such as this "sex" and so on, do not accept them. Don't take them, they're not right! Then you go out and say, "Well, that's exactly what it says in the European Parliament, that's what it says in the European Parliament. Here, I think someone from your group just came out and quoted resolutions, decisions of the European Parliament, where genocide and nothing else are being said about genocide! The Pope the other day spoke of genocide a few days ago. In the Austrian, in the German parliaments, in France they speak of genocide, ge-no-cide, respectively referring to the conventions we are talking about. The documents of the European Parliament also refer to these conventions. That's why we want these things to stay. In the same way, we must approach all peoples who have suffered and who are entitled to compensation with the same arsin. And one more thing to say. Here currently in the building of the National Assembly are representatives of the Armenian community in Bulgaria. At the time of this holiday, to which, by the way, we from Ataka, we were not invited as importers, but I see that all other parliamentary groups were invited there, and I see how the Bulgarian Democratic Center was given to bring this, and before that the GERB introduced the change for mass extermination. I see, not to use a word, how at the Chairman's Council you have agreed on what the decision should ultimately be. During this holiday, however, we communicated with representatives of the Armenian community who are here in the National Assembly. We found out from the press what's going on. We explained these things to them that the word "genocide" will be replaced by the words "mass extermination" and will drop the corresponding texts for the conventions. Well, they are categorically against it, categorically against it! And my statement, and this doppelganger is also on their behalf. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Are there any other MPs who wish to join the debate by the groups who have time for this? Mr. Mestan's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am taking advantage of the right of procedure to state that it is not yet too late for political wisdom and responsibility to prevail. I therefore propose that, instead of going to vote on the draft decision, notice, tabled by "Attack" not even by the ruling majority, I repeat, instead of voting on this draft decision, today the Bulgarian Parliament should express compassion, sympathy and respect for all the victims of historical cataclysms, no matter which people, who ethnicity and what faith they belonged to. This act of the Bulgarian Parliament would be an expression of a responsible and wise position. Everything else is a huge political mistake. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u107	In what form do you propose to express this act?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u108	I said, "Instead of voting on the decision." If you want, put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u109	Are there any other MPs who wish to participate in the debate? Your Parliamentary Group does not have time, Mrs Tasheva. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva's editorial proposal in the name of the draft decision instead of the "genocide" to read the "mass extermination" and the name to become:.. Decision on recognition of the mass extermination of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire 1915....................................................................................... We vote. Vote 158 MPs: 142, against 12, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal in the operative part of the draft decision. Since there is no second point, to drop point one and it reads:.. Recognizes the mass extermination of the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire and announces April 24 for a Day of Memorial of his victims... Ms. Karayancheva's proposal. We vote. Vote 193 MPs: 146, against 46, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Single applause.]] I put to the vote Mrs Kovachka's proposal in the first paragraph of the reasons for the decision to drop the second sentence, namely: The act fully corresponds to the composition of the United Nations Decrees: - Convention on the Persecution and Punishment of Crime Genocide (1948); - Convention on the non-application of the limitation period in respect of war crimes and crimes against humanity (1968). Vote 148 MPs: 102, against 31, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. I now put to the vote Mrs Kovatchka's second proposal in the second paragraph to drop the text by joining the position of the European Parliament in supporting this dialogue. [[Radio, lines.]] The suggestion is that this will be dropped. The sentence remains: According to the human traditions of the Bulgarian people and with the commitments of the ratification of UN documents Bulgaria distinguishes the historical heritage of the Ottoman Empire and the heritage of the Republic of Turkey and welcomes a dialogue between Turkey and Armenia for a final commitment to the historical truth. There is a proposal to remove the text further back. We are voting on this proposal. Vote 151 MPs: 99 against 43 abstentions 9. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. First negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u110	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against the dropping of the expression by joining the position of the European Parliament in support of this dialogue and because, as a Member State of the European Union, I see no reason not to support a position of the European Parliament. And it is not here to recognise, not to recognise or anything else, but it is a position of the European Parliament in support of the dialogue between Turkey and Armenia; it is about the European Parliament's efforts to find that solution that will reconcile two peoples, which will probably soon become, I suppose, members of the European Union! This vote, which we have now made, to distinguish ourselves from the position of the European Parliament in favour of this dialogue, means that we distinguish ourselves from the European Union in some of its situations. Okay, so who should we join? Which dialogue should we go to? You're pulling us out of Europe, you don't want us to join anyone! What, are we going to stay that way?? Some subjects of international law in their own right?! On the one hand, we have just adopted a decision that we acknowledge that there has been a mass extermination of people, Armenians in the Ottoman Empire, at the same time we do not want there to be a dialogue to reconcile these two peoples! Then what do we want to have?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u111	Mr. Ermenkov, this is in the text and in this part the text has not dropped out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u112	What part has he not dropped out in, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u113	The text on reconciliation and dialogue between Turkey and Armenia has not been removed. [[Definitions between MP Tasco Ermenkov and Chairman Tsetska Tsacheva.]] Your time is up. [[Reply from the National Representative Velizar Enchev.]] Negative vote "Велизар Еnchev." Mr. Enchev, I'm sorry, you got to the point... [[Lowered noise and lines from the right block.]] Please, guys! You have taken a position in the debate on the substance and you have spoken. A Member of the National Assembly who has participated in the debate shall not be entitled to a negative vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, calm down, we've got more votes to vote on. I put to the vote the draft decision on the recognition of the Armenian mass extermination in the Ottoman Empire 1915 - 1922, in line with the newly adopted decisions of the National Assembly. Cancel the vote. Colleagues, please take your seats in the Chamber. The procedure has not been completed, your actions are premature. It became clear that the importer had briefed us on the motives, but he did not read the full text of the draft decision. I cannot make a reference at the moment, but please ask someone who has not taken any part in the debate by the group of Ataka to read the submitted draft decision on which we have been debating all day.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u114	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention a project for: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on recognition of the genocide over the Armenians in The Ottoman Empire 1915 1922 The extermination of the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire in 1915 was identified by clear historical facts and authentic documents. The act fully corresponds to the composition of the United Nations Decrees: - Convention on the Persecution and Punishment of Crime Genocide (1948); - Convention on the non-application of statute of limitations in respect of war crimes and crimes against humanity (1968). According to the humane traditions of the Bulgarian people and the commitments of the ratification of UN documents, Bulgaria distinguishes the historical heritage of the Ottoman Empire and the heritage of the Republic of Turkey and welcomes a dialogue between Turkey and Armenia on a final commitment to historical truth by joining the position of the European Parliament in supporting this dialogue. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED He officially recognized the genocide against the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire and declared April 24th as the Day of Remembrance of His Victims.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u115	Thank you, too. I would like to offer your attention to the draft decision on the amendments already voted on, which will be put to the vote in plenary: "Project" DECISION for recognition of the mass destruction of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire 1915 The extermination of the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire in 1915 was identified by clear historical facts and authentic documents. According to the humane traditions of the Bulgarian people and with the commitments of the ratification of UN documents, Bulgaria distinguishes the historical heritage of the Ottoman Empire and the heritage of the Republic of Turkey and welcomes the dialogue between Turkey and Armenia for a final commitment to the historical truth. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Confesss the mass destruction of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire and announces April 24th as the Memorial Day of His Victims. Voting mode. They voted 193 MPs: 157 against 36 abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[The National Representatives of GERB, the Patriotic Front, Ataka, RB and BBC are standing and clapping continuously.]] Honourable Members of Parliament, on the basis of the decision which has just been voted in plenary on the recognition of the mass destruction of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire and the announcement of April 24 for a Day of Memorial of His Victims, I invite you to a moment of silence. [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence. The DPS Parliamentary Group is leaving the Chamber. People's representative Korman Ismailov also leaves the hall. Loud noises, shouts "Whoo!" and whistles by "Attack."]] Thank you. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR OWNITY AND USE OF EARTHS OF EARTHS. A first vote report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food has come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, No 554-01-77, submitted by the National Representative Rumen Hristov on 9 April 2015. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 22 April 2015, discussing a Draft Law amending the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, No 554 01-77, submitted by the National Representative Rumen Hristov on 9 April 2015. Mrs. Lilia Stoyanova took part in the work of the Commission. She is the Head of the Department of the Department of Land Relations and Comassation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The bill was presented by the importer MP Rumen Hristov. The bill proposes to extend the deadline by five months after which the envisaged property penalties to companies holding ownership of agricultural land will be applied in violation of the prohibition of art. 3, para. 7 of the Law. In the subsequent discussion there were the following main accents. MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary groups, the Reformation Bloc, ABB stressed that the change is necessary given the inability of large companies to sell their agricultural land by 1 May, when the deadline expires, and will accordingly be sanctioned with huge amounts. Furthermore, the date proposed by the Bill was not chosen by chance, but is the end of the current and beginning of the new business year, which will allow these companies to plan their work. They also noted that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is about to prepare a detailed analysis of the legislation of the countries of the European Union and of the ways in which the agricultural land market is regulated in them. The analysis will allow the country's most suitable regulatory mechanism to be defined, which is not contrary to European legislation. The representatives of the parliamentary groups of BSP left Bulgaria and of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms insisted that the deadline should not be changed and recalled that in the adoption of the restrictions in the Law, the philosophy was to create a regulation that, on the one hand, would prevent the speculative buying-in of land by foreign companies and, on the other hand, to protect the interests of large investors who are engaged in agriculture. They stressed that the Law has been operating for one year, most of the companies have already met its requirements and a change of deadline would benefit only those who did not take the necessary measures to bring their activities into line with the legal provisions. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 11 votes in favour, 6 votes in favour and without abstentions, proposed that the National Assembly adopt at first vote a bill amending the Law on ownership and use of agricultural land, No 554-01-77, submitted by the National Representative Rumen Hristov on 9 April 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed Law provides for a single paragraph aimed at amending § 19 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land by delaying in the period from 1 October 2015, instead of 1 May 2015, the introduction of sanctions for persons who own agricultural land in Bulgaria in violation of that same Law. I would like to remind you that just two months ago, the National Assembly, and by a substantial majority, voted for sanctions in the Law to begin on 1 May 2015, and the interested parties were given a sufficient and reasonable period of three months to bring their activities into line with this already voted law. In fact, the term for offshore companies which directly or indirectly participate in these Bulgarian companies is not even 3 months, but a whole year, because the restrictions on ownership of Bulgarian agricultural land by foreign offshore owners have been in force since 2014 with the vote of the Law. On 7 May 2014, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Management and Use of Agricultural Land was published, in which the National Assembly with the support of all the political forces represented in it adopted art. 3, para. 7 of the Law on the Management and Use of Agricultural Land, the text of which states: "They cannot acquire and possess ownership rights on agricultural land commercial companies in which partners or shareholders are directly or indirectly companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime or so-called offshore companies. Commercial companies in which partners or shareholders are natural persons, foreigners established outside the European Union, the European Economic Area or outside countries with which the Republic of Bulgaria has concluded an international contract which has been ratified by law and promulgated in the Official Journal. In February 2015, or almost a year later, after it was found that certain entities had no intention of even complying with the law, the National Assembly again, with a substantial majority, adopted the imposition of sanctions for non-compliance with the Law, giving an additional period of nearly 3 months for all interested parties to translate their activities in accordance with this Law. In this respect, it is important to emphasise that companies and individuals established in the European Union plus Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein or countries with which the Republic of Bulgaria has concluded an international contract such as the United States, Russia, Israel and others have the right to acquire and own agricultural land under the Law. The proposed amendment aims primarily at delaying sanctions for natural and legal persons who own directly or indirectly agricultural land in Bulgaria, mainly for speculative purposes and acts from offshore areas. They often own this land through shares in stock or public companies that invest mainly for speculative purposes in different essentially assets, in this case agricultural land, which in recent years in times of financial crisis and unstable currency markets, along with gold has become the main focus of speculative capital. It is precisely because of the speculative interest in recent years that the prices of the rent have tripled, they have even studied, as a major resource for the Bulgarian agricultural producer becomes more and more inaccessible economic for them and for those who look at the land as a means of real livelihood and not as a financial instrument. Postponement of sanctions regarding offshore owners and their speculative intermediaries in Bulgaria is only in the interest of those who so far have demonstrated that they have no intention of complying with the requirements of the Law. Because those who would actually benefit from the delay in introducing the sanctum regime had a whole year, but they didn't. They were relieved by the fact that sanctions for non-compliance with the Law were not foreseen. Adopting the proposed text will be an extremely bad sign for the public and for those who have already been brought into line with the law. The adoption of the proposed text will demonstrate the sensitivity of the National Assembly to the problems of lawbreakers. It is naive, however, to believe that someone who has deliberately failed to comply with the law for a whole year has intended to change their behaviour over the next six months with an extension of the period from 1 May to 1 October. I will remind you of the transcript of the parliamentary meeting on 11 February 2015. There you will see that the texts of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land, which are actually being attacked today, do not like three or four public companies. It's visible from the transcript, but that's confirmed by Mrs. Karayancheva as well. There are then fundamental doubts that these three or four public companies have put pressure on the Members of the National Assembly to maximise the delay in time, namely until 1 October 2015, under the pretext that this is reasonable and necessary for them to settle their situation in accordance with the requirements of the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land. Obviously, that pretext was a lie. They wanted more time not to comply with the Law, but to find breaches in parliament and through helpful assistance of certain MPs to pass their legislative changes that would depreciate the texts adopted by the same Parliament by the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land. How? By pushing through the necessary legislative changes for them. This time, however, in haste they have decided to do so in a way that is in complete contradiction with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and with the Rules of the National Assembly. This will be seen shortly after we voted on a second item, that is to say, a third item on our agenda, the Financial Instruments Markets Act. There, § 60 of the Bill on the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance provides for an amendment to the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, and the restriction of the Law on the Management and Use of Agricultural Land is effectively abolished for the ownership of agricultural land by the offshore owners in question operating through these several stock companies. This clearly demonstrates and proves that the three or four companies in question did not have any intention to comply with the Law, but organised a large manipulation, including in the Bulgarian Parliament, to circumvent the already stated will of the legislator. If the suspension of the plantation mechanism under the Law on the Management and Use of Agricultural Land by 1 October 2015 is accepted and the scandalous amendment of the Law on Public Offering of Securities is not adopted by means of the Financial Instruments Markets Act, which will be debated a little later, I would not be surprised if by October we are again witnessing another proposal of legal change to seek the rescue of the skins of these three or four companies. In addition to the previous, it is appropriate to emphasise that the proposed changes are made again at the last moment, without the necessary publicity, in full information blackout, both for the majority of Members of the National Assembly and for the public. This approach is contrary to the claimed claims of open and transparent governance and is becoming a trademark for reformers as well. On Wednesday, an unsuccessful attempt was made to violate the Rules of the National Assembly for holding a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food at 10.30 am. In the reasons for the Bill serving delaying the time of sanctions, the European Commission launched a criminal procedure to the Republic of Bulgaria. In fact, it turns out that the infringement procedure has been initiated but is in a preliminary phase. However, the most interesting thing is that the procedure in question in the initial phase does not at all concern the texts mentioned by the importers, which refer to and quote the procedure in the initial phase, which does not concern what we are discussing today. It was not presented and distributed to the Commissioners for a reason. In addition to its arguments, the importer expressed concern at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food with regard to Japanese investors who owned 2500 decares of land in Montansko. I want to reassure Mr. Hristov and the Japanese investors. Although there are no explicit agreements between the Republic of Bulgaria and Japan to protect such a type of investment, the Bulgarian law protects them. To this end, I recommend that you get acquainted with the Investment Promotion Act, art. 23. I will quote it: For foreign investments made before the amendments to the legislation which establish regulatory restrictions only on foreign investment, legal provisions that were in force at the time of the investment are applied. Last but not least, I would like to ask the Patriotic Front: how do they protect the Bulgarian land after the Commission voted for this postponement? I also have questions for Mr. Bayraktarov. I quote a shorthand from February 20, 2015. He says: "It is really not necessary to politicize something that is reasonable. The deadline is extremely long until October. The first of May is indeed a reasonable deadline, and we of the Patriotic Front will support this proposal. And you support him. So there's no point in unnecessary conversations, unnecessary debates, and at least we're still looking for the answer to who? This is the transcript of your speech, Mr. Bayraktarov. I think the MPs have already figured out who he is. Who? My fellow Members, before I conclude, I would like to remind you that this week, too, we have started the debates with the subject of the rule of law, including the subject of amending the Constitution because of the rule of law. From your vote today, it will become clear to what extent and why colleagues insist on changing the Constitution so much. I call on you to vote on the stay of 1 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u119	Here's a line for you, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Hristov, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I take the floor for Mr. Caymakanov's exhibition. Yeah, it's right, it's logical. Of course, we all have to be careful to preserve the Bulgarian land. At the same time, I would like to say that the Patriotic Front is the last organization to show some kind of discrepancy in its policy. We continue to hold on to the removal of all questionable subjects from Bulgarian agriculture, but at the same time we must be responsible politicians. It cannot, since there are sufficient good practices in this regard, be limited to questionable entities entering the agriculture of other European countries, and seeing that we have not taken them into account in our decision and they are not included as such, that we do not comply with this and that we do not take all the best. I believe that four months is quite enough time to come up with a justified, unattachable proposal that will really enable foreign investors to work in Bulgaria and not with our decisions to challenge their withdrawal. As far as land ownership is concerned, I can say that currently the biggest land buyers in Bulgaria are Russian investors and offshore investors. I would like to hear, for example, if Mr. Kaimakanov agrees that the Bulgarian land should be owned at the moment this is the case by Russian investors who are completely legal? We must also find a way for those who are legal but questionable in the same way to be restricted as in the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Caymakanov, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u122	I'll ask for an extension of our group's time. Dear Mr. Petrov, I do not know what you find consecutively in this two months ago to support this decision and agree that the three-month period is absolutely sufficient, provided that the two three or four Bulgarian companies have had the time of one year to re-registered. I don't know what you find consistently in claiming that the next six months are long enough, provided that 12 months have passed for registration so far. Don't you understand that these companies, after today's April 24th, when the Bulgarian Parliament on 11 February voted on these sanctions and did not take measures to identify these shortcomings in their companies under the law, they have no intention of doing so. Even in the next six months, it's not about time, it's about... Including these companies have sufficient administrative capacity to do so. You know how long this registration takes. This is about an absolute lobbyist move by the importers, and I do not understand why you supported it. I think you should give that explanation. As for the other companies that have the right to invest in Bulgaria, you said so yourself, they are legal. I do not see anything wrong with the investment of legal companies in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Caymakanov. Mr. Kaimakanov also requested an extension of the parliamentary group's time. For the next speech there is the national representative from BSP left Bulgaria. Svetla Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u124	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I would like to present the position of BSP left Bulgaria. We also expressed it in the Committee on Agriculture. We will not support the proposed change because, according to the changes adopted in May 2014 in the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land, I am speaking for 2014, a limitation of the right to ownership of agricultural land in respect of offshore companies, as well as in respect of commercial companies whose shareholders or owners are not established in a Member State of the European Union. The first reason we do not support the extension is that one year has passed since the adoption of the Law. During this year, a large part of the companies that went into the limitations of this law did what was necessary to transform their property. It is true that the previous parliament did not accept sanctions. These sanctions were adopted this year and were supported by all the parliamentary groups. However, in this period after 7 May 2014, when the law was adopted, this was the second reason why we did not accept the extension, many vicious practices that circumvented the law requirement. What's this about? First, local natural and legal persons were used to purchase agricultural land. By purchasing agricultural land, in a subsequent period they transfer shares or shares precisely to companies which are not entitled to have agricultural land. This cannot be established by notaries, for the simple reason that the transfer of shares or shares to a carrier cannot be sanctioned and cannot be verified. So in the period of 7 May 2014 with this loophole and the lack of sanctions, new companies came into existence, which ordered and acquired agricultural land. Offering to postpone again by 1 October sets a precedent for these companies to continue working. In my opinion, they have no desire or intent to give up ownership of the land they have acquired despite the texts of the law. The third reason why we will not support the law is that in the next law that we are going to see today the Financial Instruments Market Act, there the door opens very wide, regardless of what kind of company we have against us, either offshore or from any other country, we allow the purchase of agricultural land. In the Commission, I put this text in the Law on condition that we extend the deadline until 1 October to enter the situation in which we will discuss very carefully changes that do not create prerequisites for Bulgarian companies to be affected. I was not answered by this question whether in the next Law the proposal made by the Reformation Block will be withdrawn. Therefore, the third reason why we will not support the extension of the deadline and perhaps the most important reason is because otherwise we would understand the extension if we really want to make this change to create a condition for Bulgarian companies to develop. However, in this situation, duplication in two laws and dropping all the sanctions that the previous National Assembly adopted, it seems to me that it is not possible to work and it cannot be an occasion or opportunity to boast of a solid legislation. Fire, extreme solutions never lead to good consequences, including for the Bulgarian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. For the first line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u126	Dear Madame Chairman, dear Madame Professor! I do not agree with the position you have put forward on all three points, but I will take a quick opinion mainly on your considerations in the third argument. Those are two different questions: the question of the period which concerns the penalty against the other issue, which concerns the subjective application of the prohibition. There is no problem for Parliament's attention to both issues at the same time, as the penalty, unfortunately, remains. But I will recall this. With regard to the subject-matter of the prohibition on entities. In your committee, when you were chairman, I and then MP Desislava Taneva made a proposal, which I continue to argue now that it was the precise proposal with regard to the entities for which there was a certain restriction so that the Republic of Bulgaria would comply with all its commitments, including the accession treaty, including that it does not significantly affect trade turnover. With the next law, colleagues are trying to correct the obvious injustice concerning public companies registered on the Bulgarian Stock Exchange. There is no reason to limit the possibility that these companies, which are typically investment companies, are involved in the regulated market, to own Bulgarian agricultural land.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u127	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u129	Second line? It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kirilov, in the previous Parliament these texts of the Law were adopted by consensus, including you, and the Committee on Agriculture were also voted on. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] That's why you can check it out. On the second argument, I must tell you that, after 15 May 2014, this practice continues, this is from the motives of your parliamentary group when submitting the proposal for sanctions. Your parliamentary group suggested that the sanctions should be on May 1st on the grounds that a year is not implemented and there is a problem. With the next law that we will encounter and debate accordingly, I must tell you that you are opening the door so wide that there is no country in the European Union, and there is not in the world that creates rules for the acquisition of agricultural land in this way, and we strongly oppose this order or that your desire to amend the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u131	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u132	Madam President, honourable Members! Today has been a very busy day, and we still haven't had a vacation due. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I ask for 30 minutes. rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u133	I'm announcing 15 minutes. Interruption. We'll resume work at 1:00 p.m. Before this, I would like to remind you that by a deliberate decision today, we have agreed to extend the legislative part of today's plenary until the adoption of the three points that have been voted on. This means that if we finish the debates, that is, with the vote on the Financial Instruments Markets Act before 2:00 p.m., there will be parliamentary control by 2:00 p.m. If, by 2:00 p.m., we are not finished with the Law, we continue with the second reading of the same Law until we run out of this is our decision from this morning, and parliamentary control will not be implemented. I'm announcing 15 minutes. rest. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u134	The hearing is ongoing. Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber. The debate on the first reading of the Law amending the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land continues. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u135	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is: when I look at the hall, the chickens are very few, let's take a roll call. This is my procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u136	Great procedure, Mr. Kasabov, I welcome you, but on the occasion of a specific vote, the name check can be carried out. Now, if there are MPs who wish to speak, we continue the debate, and when we move on to the vote, I will respect your proposal. Aren't there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u137	Thank you, Madam President. I take the floor not so much to give my colleagues the opportunity to enter the Chamber and not to do this to ourselves with a roll call check, as to say a few things that seem important to me, as I have heard a lot of speculation so far from both the left and the DPS from this tribune. What are we doing right now? We extend one period for the entry into force of a provision concerning sanctions which will be imposed on a text of this law. This text, on which sanctions will be imposed, as mentioned, was adopted a year ago and I am very clear and convinced that this is an impractical text, not to say that this is a lousy text as recorded. I had the opportunity to talk to my colleagues at GERB about how it was accepted, because I was not in this Chamber at the time, and they specifically pointed out to me that they insisted that the public companies should be excluded from this restriction, but the forty-second Parliament did not accept it and quite deliberately introduced a ban that concerned in practice tens and hundreds of companies traded on the Bulgarian Stock Exchange and placed them under a common denominator with all these offshore companies, for which there was a lot of comment before I took the floor, and when the DPS started explaining to us offshore companies, I always became very careful and listened very carefully. I will now draw your attention to the following: in the law which they are very proud of, namely, the so-called offshore law, a special regime is provided for the acquisition of agricultural land and forests. In other words, it could be argued that, since this law is special in relation to this law, that provision will not actually apply to them. I'm telling you this as a reason to think, you can open up and see art. 4 of the so-called "Offshore Act', where it is said that a company with offshore participation and which is a marketable market in the European Union is virtually excluded from all restrictions under this law, including acquiring land from the Forest Fund and agricultural land. That's one. Further on, I have mentioned the public companies, you should know that after the imposition of this sanction, which was voted in February, next month the decline in the Bulgarian Stock Exchange is over 75%. I do not know if we are aware of what this means and how many foreign and other investors are affected, but this is an extremely bad signal to investors and to the predictable market environment that each of them hopes to find in one Member State of the European Union. You can't just do something like that! Here I welcome the idea of the importer to give an additional period of time and to find a precise solution to the problem, because there really must be restrictions on the acquisition of agricultural land in order that there are no abuses and frank speculations with them, but it must be cleared both order and regime in order not to suffer in practice legitimate white companies that are traded on the Bulgarian Stock Exchange, which are Bulgarian companies. Remember, these are Bulgarian legal entities in which there may be foreign participation, but these are Bulgarian legal entities. They are subject to regulation by the Bulgarian regulatory authorities and are subject to control by the National Revenue Agency, they also pay taxes in this country. Let's face it. Another important thing needs to be said again on the topic "Crops from companies and offshore companies." I ask here the colleagues who explained this to me: what would happen if an offshore company registered a subsidiary in the European Union, for example in the Netherlands, and this subsidiary took that it here in Bulgaria registered a company that started buying concentrated agricultural land? By this law, as you wrote in the last parliament, nothing is going on because there you wrote that participation should be among the shareholders and because you have not indicated what indirect participation means and did this hypothesis that I have told you, that is to say that this participation through an intermediate structure registered in the European Union, actually cover the law? Well, he doesn't get it! Indeed the questions are more than the answers, the problems are more than the answers, and I really appeal to everyone to support this amendment and the penalty not to apply from 1 May, because indeed then the situation will be very severe. Further in the debate, we will also comment on the proposals of the Reformation Block, just mentioning them so that I do not take the floor again under the next law, which specifically concerns public companies and what we have said about eligibility in a similar way to literally hit them and directly draw them out of the real trade turnover in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u138	- What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u139	Thank you, Madam President. I think today we should focus on the importer's proposal for change, and it is a change of deadline. The importer does not say anything about changing the law and we should not discuss the subject with the law because it was adopted by the Bulgarian Parliament in 2014. I don't mind someone saying an opinion on this issue, but today we are only talking about the deadline, that is, that there are three or four companies that are outlawed and breaking it. We're talking about sanctions that were introduced two months ago, and yet no one has respected anything by these three or four companies. Colleagues, let's not dive into this plane and talk about how good or bad the law is. Parliament has passed this law, the MPs have adopted it. I think the reformers will support me, let's talk about the rule of law. I ask you to focus mainly on the deadline for which the debate is actually about. The colleague who just spoke mentioned that 75% of these companies have reduced their investments in Bulgaria because of this law. What does that tell you? 75% of these companies deal only with speculation on land. That is why I think that this deadline should remain on May 1st, as we all voted together here two months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u140	Second line? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u141	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Slavov! I replicate you for the following reason. First, your plea and analysis concerned the next law and the next debate. Secondly, as a member of the Legal Committee, I would like to recall the following fact. At the insistence of many organizations, companies that are listed on the public market on the Bulgarian Stock Exchange, the Legal Committee heard their claims. As a result of this hearing, we have decided to seek and find such a legislative solution that will at least resolve the issue of public companies. Then it was mentioned and then the Reformation Block tried to take the lead with the proposal in question to make the amendment in the Law, which we will look at as a third point. But I stress, it is the will, the debate of the Legal Committee. We support the initiative from the Reformation Block, but as Mr. Kaimakanov replicates me on the move, I will say the following. It is therefore the time limit, therefore it is necessary to have a time limit in order to specify the effect of this prohibition on all entities. Otherwise, I specifically have no concerns about public companies. With regard to them, even in Mr. Tsonev's offshore law, this issue is resolved there. There's an exclusion there. However, in order to avoid putting public companies in a position to wonder whether or not they are implementing the Law, it is therefore the amendment that colleagues propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u142	Third line, Mr. Danev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u143	Mrs. Chairman! My fellow Member, I have listened to your speech and I am giving you a reply in the position that what you have said really makes sense that we need to extend the period somewhat and, during this period of time, to find the right solution. I agree and believe in the sincerity of your words if it was not for the proposal made in the next item on the agenda, namely to waive the restriction under art. 3, para. 7, p. 1 and 2, which is by looking at the other bill and adopting it, we will release all the companies that concern this. 1 and 2. I agree that they are limited on the Stock Exchange as such companies to be equal to other land buyers, and perhaps we are likely to refine such a decision to have some threshold of restriction that enables these companies to operate with the purchase of land. But I think that your proposal made in the next law is such that time is sought to allow for these restrictions adopted in the last parliament to be dropped. Moreover, I would like to share here that the proposal and the debates of the GERB Party were then for five years staying for these companies and they should be engaged in agricultural activity. So our desire really is to find the compromise, but not in the way you propose it. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Perhaps in the debates of the subsequent law we will express our position.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u144	Let us leave the next law when the time comes, we are now debating a specific bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u145	They're connected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u146	There's no such connection. You're forcing me to take your word away from the debate. A hole, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u147	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Danev, with you I will start thank you for your efforts to understand what I said. We really need to read the text very carefully, because there are things that are not visible at first glance, and as I have addressed to you, especially in the interpretation of this provision in relation to the so-called "Offshore Act', it becomes clear that it may actually be that offshore investors are given privileges that are not given to all other foreign investors. This is about Japan, about America, about Australia. I ask you: is this the purpose of the Law? Obviously, this is not the purpose of the Law, and it really must be given time for this very carefully to be refined. As far as this legal rule, which we are currently commenting on has not entered into force, I see no problem for us to really comment on a subsequent postponement and give this opportunity. This, by the way, is much better to do than what the past National Assembly has ended up adopting a law text to which there was no sanctum norm and which the legal text remained wishful thinking for a very, very long time simply because there was no sanction. Now that there will be sanctions, once things are done properly, let's really do them the right way and not sanction people and especially public companies that have in no way deserved such treatment. Again, these are companies registered on the Bulgarian Stock Exchange. These are Bulgarian legal entities, they are subject to regulation in this country, they pay taxes in this country. Once again, I take the liberty of repeating myself because I did not hear an answer here from the representative of the DPS "What are we doing in the situation in which an offshore company or a company has registered a company in the Netherlands for example and through it participates here and buys agricultural land through a subsidiary company in Bulgaria?" This Law in its present form does not catch it. What do you actually get? Some half measures directly hit foreign investors who made white investments on the Bulgarian Stock Exchange. As I mentioned earlier, the decline in one month is 75% of the total turnover of the Stock Exchange, not the turnover of these companies. The decline from the entire turnover of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange was 75%. That's hundreds of millions. Just think about what kind of problem it is and how many foreign investors are affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u148	That's what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u149	Mr. Rumen Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u150	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u151	What personal explanation? You made a line to the main speaker. Here you are, Mr. Yonchev. I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u152	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! My speech will have a slight procedural nature. I'm surprised which bill we're debating. It seems to me that the debate is going in a direction that does not in any way concern the short text proposed to our attention and it reads and provides only an extension of one period. What are the motives of the importers? In the whole debate here we saw actually three main points. First, that we facilitate or attract foreign investors. What attracts them after we postpone the five-month sentence? I do not understand how we become more attractive investment destination with the fact that by five months we will postpone the period within which they will be punished if they have not transferred their companies? That is, the first goal is not realized with this short text. The second objective is to take into account the business cycle, the cycle of agricultural production with the cycle of penalties for those who have failed to comply with the law. The ownership of the companies of the landowners has no bearing on the sowing, harvesting, harvest and work in agriculture at all. No way! Not to mention that most of these companies in no way process this land. They rented it out, under rent, in all forms and it is managed by Bulgarian farmers in most cases. The third objective of the bill is almost to comply with European directives which threatened to go into criminal proceedings. Again, with the extension of the deadline, we do not solve this problem in any way. If there's going to be a criminal procedure, it should be underway, it should be happening right now, and all of this should be there. How, with the extension or waiting a few more months before we start imposing penalties, will we solve the problem of such a criminal procedure? That is, this bill does not decide any of the three main motivational points put forward by its importers. I would support any bill that decides them, anyone who lobbies or tries to bring more investments, including in Bulgarian agriculture. But with the proposed text, this does not happen in any way. On the contrary, we are all faced with the need to explain very soon to those who have complied with the current Law, who have taken the necessary actions that have transferred their companies, made the relevant costs, why these costs and these measures were necessary for them, and for those who may have known that the law or the deadline would be extended, are not necessary? How do we explain this? How are we going to convince from now on as legislators all those who have to comply with the laws in Bulgaria that after the adoption of deadlines, they will not be extended, tripled, postponed and so on? All of this points to the thought that we are currently looking at a generally meaningless text that does not solve any problem by the importers, and at the same time creates a bad practice, in my opinion, which suggests that the laws should not be implemented and that the laws should be respected when there are deadlines, it should be waited for whether the National Assembly will extend them. In this regard, I would like to state that our parliamentary group will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u153	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u154	Madam President, honourable Members! I don't understand why, when we start talking about the Bulgarian land, all of which depend on them are covered by a popular madness. When the National Assembly adopted the moratorium on the sale of Bulgarian land to foreigners, the DPS were against it and the Constitutional Court repealed it, we were in the same position as we are today. Two months ago, we passed a law that we're reviewing in two months. This is the same universal madness where we tell all investors and everyone living in Bulgaria that we do not know what we are doing. In 2014, the legislator with legal change stopped the purchase of Bulgarian land by offshore companies and foreigners by providing for three restrictions. First restriction, Art. 3, para. 7, p. 1 does not allow companies to acquire and own agricultural land in which partners or shareholders are direct or indirect companies registered in a jurisdiction with a preferential tax regime within the meaning, or in short under the Law on offshore companies whose full name is the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with a preferential tax regime and their related persons and their actual owners. The second limitation provided for in art. 7, para. 2 is for the acquisition and possession of agricultural land which relates to commercial companies in which partners or shareholders are foreign or foreign legal entities outside those entitled to acquire agricultural land, as well as sole commercial companies established by such natural or legal persons. The third restriction is directed to public limited liability companies which have issued bearer shares. Since this Law didn't have sanctions, it never worked. In February, the National Assembly adopted a text to impose sanctions on companies that do not comply with the Law. He was supposed to start acting on May 1st this year. What happened? During the period from February to April, what happened, honourable Members, that the National Assembly should reconsider its decision?! Obviously the text is purely lobbying because in such a short time there is no other reason to import and look at such a text and to accept it. Here I want to open the clamp that if it still comes to adopting this text, between first and second readings I will make other concrete proposals and I would like to announce this from now on. The universal madness on this topic continues with the current date as follows. On 9 April the People's Representative Rumen Hristov submitted a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land, which was allocated to the Committee on Agriculture. In order to quickly resolve the problem of shareholders by offshore companies, this item was intended for consideration by the National Assembly on Thursday, 23 April, contrary to the Rules of the National Assembly, i.e. before the necessary 24-hour period of the report of the leading Commission expired. The Chairman of the Agricultural Commission Mr. Rumen Hristov, also importer of the bill, in the spirit of the reform of the Reformation Bloc, is likely to preserve the interest of the offshore women, called an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Agriculture on Wednesday, during a plenary session on 22 April at 10.30 in violation of the Rules of the National Assembly. The lightning speed with which this Law of Amendment and Supplement moves compared to all others who wait for months shows only one pure lobbying interest. The question arises: in whose favor?! For the benefit of private companies with shareholders who want to own the Bulgarian land! This Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land was adopted by this National Assembly in February. In two months, we want to change it. The following questions arise: why, who, and how many? [[Radio and laughter.]] On the question of why, I would like to read you a statement, to quote a statement by the Board of Directors of "Advans Terrafond" a shareholder company with a special investment purpose in relation to changes in the law on ownership and use of agricultural land. I quote literally: Dear shareholders, we are addressing you in order to inform you of the latest amendments to the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land. There's an explanation to follow. In the statement is written: The amendments thus adopted by the Law are required by "Advans Terrafond Adsitz" and by each public company to control its shareholder structure. The explanations on the amendment of the Law continue. In conclusion, this statement of the Board of Directors is written: "We declare our firm position that the management of "Advans Terafond Adsitz" will not allow the sale of assets of the company, as well as the payment of a penalty. In order to protect the interests of our shareholders, we have taken the necessary steps to address the problems outlined above. Why am I reading this to you? They clearly say: "We will not comply with the Law, we will not sell out, we will not restructure the company and we have therefore taken all the necessary steps." What action have they taken, honourable Members, because a public limited company does not have a legislative initiative. It appears that the actions have found a person who can insert this so that the penalty that lies ahead of them may not happen. In Bulgaria there are 800 thousand acres of land owned by offshore companies, 100 leva each, you can consider what this is about. To the question of who is it, let's do an analysis of the vote in the Agricultural Commission to answer the question of who is behind this thing. Here we go. Importer Roumen Hristov. I've already explained why. Because, in all likelihood, the Board of Directors' statement and their position that they have taken the necessary action have an effect. Next answer to the question. The support of GERB, especially of Tsveta Karayancheva, amazes me very much because as an importer of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land, it was her proposal that the deadline be 1 May. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u155	Time's up, Mrs. Ahmedova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u156	Including the ABB and the Patriotic Front have announced that they support the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u157	I understand that you insist on saying everything you've prepared, but your group doesn't have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u158	They silently supported in the Commission this scandal which is developing today in the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u160	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I think things are very clear and precise. It's not about changing the Law, it's about reschedule, it's about changing the deadline. This was the initial proposal of the applicant to be on 1 October. [[Reply from the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova.]] But then it happened with only two votes that this proposal was accepted and the deadline was extremely insufficient. In the Committee on Agriculture and Food, I supported the proposal to postpone, with two considerations. I had many meetings with people who were involved in this problem. There was a large forum in the Grand Hotel, which was attended by prominent representatives of the agricultural industry and they reacted sharply against the Law and against the deadline. Then it became clear that the Law should not be changed because it concerns the Bulgarian land and Bulgarian citizens. It should be processed and owned by Bulgarian citizens. So it's not about changing the law. One more thing we talked about with the people at the time.. they asked me to submit to the Commission a proposal for an extension by a few months, because the time is really not enough. The second recital will help Minister Taneva to do research on how it is in other countries, as well as how this land will be used further. There's talk of lobbying. We also suspect that on the other side people who propose that this happen instantly are probably lobbying for something. My proposal is to support this bill. Thank you. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u161	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Kaimakanov, your parliamentary group doesn't have parliamentary time, I'm sorry. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u162	Mrs. Chairman! Honourable Professor. Stankov, if in one year there has not been enough time for these companies, which, regardless of whether there is a penalty or not, to fulfil their obligation to comply with the Law, how are we going to get them to comply with the Law with a few more months? What was presented showed that they had no intention of complying with this Law. The Bulgarian land, which under the Constitution must be protected and used for production, is practically acquired by companies that have nothing to do with agriculture and do not care at all about this land how it will be used. Their only goal and task is for them to acquire it so that they can speculate after some time resold it or simply put us in a position to depend on land ownership. When they want foreign companies to rent land in Bulgaria, no one has forbidden them to rent Bulgarian land in order to develop agricultural production and to be able to buy it within five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u163	Second line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u164	The hole is very short. We've had conversations with those people who have a bearing on the problem. It is precisely the need for time to transfer this property that is extremely necessary. That is why we propose a continuance. It will not solve the problems of Bulgaria and Bulgarian agriculture. The problems are much more and much sharper, which we need to discuss at some other forum, I think we will soon do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u165	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. [[Reply from the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova.]] Procedure, come in. There's another procedure, I haven't forgotten.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u166	Dear Madam President,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u167	You don't have time, Mrs. Ahmedova...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u168	...as we are currently discussing an extremely important...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u169	You don't have time. I can't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u170	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u171	And procedure. The procedures shall enter into time, except in the manner in which they are conducted. If you have a procedure in the manner of conduct, I will listen to you. Any other procedures are inadmissible on behalf of your parliamentary group. [[Heckling]] There has already been such a request. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front on the occasion of an upcoming vote, a roll call census procedure was made. What do you want, Mr. Kasabov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u172	I'm doing a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u173	You did it, didn't you? You made it, and I'm ready...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u174	Okay, well, don't forget it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u175	I won't forget. A little more trust in me. Give the lists to the following names check in alphabetical order. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valentin Stefanov Vasilev - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - here Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - absent Galya Simeonova Georgieva - absent Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - absent Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - here Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - absent Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - absent Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - absent Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - absent Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - here Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - absent Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - absent Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - absent Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - here Filip Stefanov Popov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - absent Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - absent Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - here There is a quorum. The hearing is ongoing. Debates terminated. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the bill amending the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. Please vote. They voted 130 MPs: 95 against 35, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Rumen Hristov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u176	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I propose that the two votes be held in one sitting. Please put the motion to a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u177	Is there a reverse offer? Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u178	Madam President, honourable Members! In my speech, I explicitly stressed that I would make proposals between first and second readings, which is why this procedure is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u179	Honourable Members, I verbally refer to art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure: The National Assembly may decide, exceptionally, that the two votes be held in one sitting. This provision shall apply only if no proposals for amendments or additions to the Bill have been made during the discussion. Future intentions for proposals between first and second readings are irrelevant and relevant to the text and I therefore put to the vote Mr. Rumen Hristov's proposal for a vote in one sitting at the first and second reading of the bill. Please vote. [[Loud noise in DPS.]] Colleagues, read the Rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u180	There is no such practice as to vote in one sitting at first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u181	They voted 130 MPs: 94 against 36 abstentions. The motion is accepted. You're welcome, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u182	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct, as I have not been able to make a reference to the Rules in the short time, I cannot quote it, but I have practically no way of knowing what will happen before first reading and I have no way of predicting to make such a proposal. I don't know how the procedure works, but I'm essentially limited to the right that I've stated I want to do. I believe that if this is the case in the Rules, as you say, my rights are limited in terms of proposals that I would like to make as a Member of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u183	Colleagues, I take it that not everyone currently has the text of the Rules. That's why I referred to him literally. I can give you my copy to read what we have accepted and voted as National Assembly in our Rules. Second reading report!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! LAW amending the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. In § 19 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land, SG No. 14 of 2015, the words "May 1st" shall be replaced by "October 1st." Final provisions § 2. The Law shall enter into force from 30 April 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u185	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Caymakanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, today at the first reading of this Bill we placed on the scale the interest of Bulgarian land, the interest of Bulgarian farmers and the interest of offshore companies. We saw where the scale was tilted. The protection of the Bulgarian land was not well done by the Patriotic Front. Mr. Bajraktarov, who claimed that it was right for May 1st to be the term in which offshore companies will be re-registered, was not even present in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u187	He wasn't ordered.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u188	Mr. Bayraktarov, then you asked the question. Who's today? Colleagues, who is already clear. Reformers tried at the beginning of the season to raise the issue of rule of law, tried at the beginning of the season to talk about changing the Constitution [[SHOUTING IN RB]] . Is this the rule of law a law passed a year ago and we are constantly delaying sanctions in relation to it?! Colleagues, please, May 1 is a really serious deadline. It's second reading. Protect the Bulgarian manufacturer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u189	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] Colleagues, the submitted Draft Law amending the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land contains one single paragraph, without the name of a division and without a Transitional and Final provision. For this reason, I only put to the vote a single paragraph, as under the submitted Bill, for amendments to § 19 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land, where the words Please vote. Vote 112 MPs: 88 against 24 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Hristov, I invite you to withdraw what you read outside the Bill, as it is by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u190	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I withdraw the second proposal for the period of entry into force of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u191	Thank you. That concludes the second reading on this bill. Moving on to: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR THE DELEGATION AND ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR THE MARKETS OF THE FINANCIAL We've reached art. 72nd. If there are guests, invite them to the hall as they are admitted. Here you go, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u192	Art. 72nd. In the event of disagreement between the competent authorities participating in the supervisory college, the committee as a participant may refer the matter to EBA and request its assistance in accordance with Article 8. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010. Art. 72k. (1) The Commission shall, on its own initiative, provide the relevant competent authorities with information that is material and/or relevant to the exercise of their supervisory functions for the implementation of Directive 2013/36/EU and Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. (2) For the purposes of para. 1 significant is any information that could affect the assessment of the financial stability of an institution or a financial institution by the Member State concerned and includes the following: 1. a description of the legal, management and organisational structure of the group, including all supervised entities and unregulated subsidiaries, significant branches and parent undertakings in the group, and an indication of the competent authorities supervising supervised entities in the group; 2. procedures for collecting and verifying information from the institutions in the group; 3. difficulties in the activities of institutions or in the activities of other companies in the group that may seriously affect the activities of the institutions; 4. administrative penalties and supervisory measures imposed by the Commission under this law, including the imposition of additional capital requirements or restrictions for the use of the advanced measurement approach in the calculation of compulsory own funds under art. Article 312 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. (3) At the request of a competent authority of a Member State supervising subsidiaries of European Union parent institutions or institutions controlled by European Union parent financial holding companies or mixed parent financial holding companies of the European Union to which the Commission is a consolidating supervisory authority, it shall provide information relevant to the exercise of their supervisory functions. (4) The Commission shall cooperate with EBA and provide all information necessary to fulfil its obligations under the conditions and in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010. (5) Where the Commission supervises an investment firm controlled by an EU parent institution, where necessary, information on the application of approaches and methodologies pursuant to Directive 2013/36/EU and Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission shall contact the consolidating supervisory authority in the Member State concerned where it is possible to have the necessary information. Art. 72l. (1) Before taking a decision which is relevant to the activity of another competent authority, the Commission shall consult it and the consolidating supervisory authority if the decision concerns significant supervisory measures and administrative penalties imposed by the Commission, respectively by the Vice-President, including the imposition of additional capital requirements or restrictions on the use of internal models for operational risk when calculating own funds for supervisory purposes under art. 312 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. (2) The requirement under para. 1 shall not apply where it is necessary for the Commission to take a decision immediately, as well as where consultations may impede or impede the effectiveness of a relevant decision. In this case, the Commission shall notify the competent authorities as soon as possible. Art. Seventy-two meters. The Commission may refer the matter to EBA in accordance with art. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 where: 1. a competent authority has not provided material information within the meaning of Article 1. 72k, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. the request for the exchange of relevant information has been refused or has not been met within a reasonable period. Art. 72n. (1) At the request of a competent authority, the Commission shall verify certain information on an investment firm, financial holding company, mixed financial holding company, financial institution, ancillary services company, mixed holding company, subsidiaries operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under which the Commission supervises. (2) The Commission may entrust the competent authority that requested the information either to an external auditor or to an expert to carry out the verification. (3) Where an investment firm, a financial holding company, a mixed financial holding company, a financial institution, an ancillary services company, a mixed holding company or a subsidiary on which the committee supervises, operates in another Member State, the Commission may request the relevant competent authority to verify certain information about that person. In this case, the Commission may request to carry out the verification itself or to participate in it. Art. 72o. (1) Where a competent authority has not included in the supervision of a consolidated investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Commission may request information from the parent undertaking which may facilitate the supervision of that investment firm. (2) Where the Commission exercises supervision on a consolidated basis under this law, it may require from the subsidiaries of investment firms authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria the information under art. 72p. In this case, the procedure for providing and verifying information under art. 72p. Art. 72p. (1) Where a mixed business holding company is the parent undertaking of one or more investment firms authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Commission may require information from the holding company and its subsidiaries that is appropriate for the purpose of supervision of the subsidiaries of investment firms on a consolidated basis. (2) The Commission may carry out an on-the-spot check in the company concerned on its own or with the assistance of designated persons in order to verify the information received under para. 1. (3) If the mixed-activity holding company or one of its subsidiaries is an insurance company, the Commission may verify the information received under para. 1 and in the order of art. 72nd. (4) If the mixed-activity holding company or one of its subsidiaries is not established in the Republic of Bulgaria, the information received under para. 1 may also be checked in accordance with Article 1. 72n. Art. 72p. (1) Where a mixed business holding company is the parent undertaking of one or more investment firms authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Commission shall exercise general supervision of transactions between those investment firms and the holding company and transactions between investment firms and other subsidiaries of the holding, without prejudice to the requirements of Part Four of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. (2) Investment firms under para. 1 introduce adequate risk management processes and internal control mechanisms, including reliable reporting and accounting procedures, to identify, measure, monitor and adequately control transactions with the mixed operation holding company and its subsidiaries. The investment firms under para. 1 notify the Commission of any significant transaction with the mixed operation holding company and its subsidiaries other than the transactions under art. 394 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. The procedures and transactions referred to in this paragraph shall be supervised by the Commission. The requirements to be met by transactions to be considered significant shall be determined by a regulation. Art. 72c. (1) Where a parent undertaking and one of its subsidiaries, one of which is an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria, are established in different Member States, the Commission shall cooperate and exchange information with the relevant competent authorities to allow or support the exercise of supervision on a consolidated basis. (2) Where the parent undertaking is established in the Republic of Bulgaria, but the Commission shall not supervise on a consolidated basis according to art. 70 at the request of the supervisory authority on a consolidated basis, the Commission shall be entitled to request from the parent undertaking the information that would be necessary for the supervision on a consolidated basis by providing it to that competent authority. (3) The powers of the Committee for the Collection of Information under para. 2 do not entail an obligation for the Commission to supervise the parent undertaking independently when it is a financial holding company, mixed financial holding company, financial institution or ancillary services company. (4) The powers of the Committee to collect information under art. 72p does not lead to supervisory obligations on a stand-alone basis on the mixed-activity holding and its subsidiaries which are not investment firms and are not covered by supervision on a consolidated basis. Art. 72nd. (1) When carrying out supervision on a consolidated basis of an investment firm, a financial holding company, a mixed financial holding company or a mixed holding company that controls one or more subsidiaries which are insurers or other undertakings providing investment services which are subject to authorisation by the Commission, the Commission shall cooperate and exchange information with the relevant competent authorities in order to assist in carrying out the supervision of the activities and the overall financial situation of supervised entities. (2) The Commission shall maintain a list of financial holding companies and mixed financial holding companies supervised on a consolidated basis. The Commission shall make that list available to the other competent authorities, the European Commission and EBA and shall notify them of any changes thereto. (3) Where an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria is a subsidiary of an institution, financial holding company or financial holding company with a mixed activity from a third country and that investment firm is not supervised on a consolidated basis by the Commission or by another competent authority, the Commission shall verify that the investment firm is covered by supervision on a consolidated basis complying with the requirements of that law and Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. The Commission shall verify on its own initiative or at the request of the parent undertaking or subsidiary subject to authorisation and supervision in a Member State and shall consult the relevant competent authority. (4) When carrying out the check under para. 3 The Commission shall take into account the opinion of the European Banking Committee whether the supervisory rules on a consolidated basis of the third country concerned would achieve the objectives of supervision on a consolidated basis under art. 111-127 of Directive 2013/36/EU. Upon completion of the verification and before taking a decision, the Commission shall also consult EBA. (5) If the Commission finds that supervision is not carried out on a consolidated basis or that the supervision carried out does not comply with the requirements of that law and Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission may apply to the investment firm a subsidiary under para. 3 appropriate supervisory measures to achieve the objectives of supervision on a consolidated basis. The Commission shall apply those supervisory measures after consulting the relevant competent authorities, including the third country. (6) In the cases under para. The Commission may request the establishment of a financial holding company or mixed financial holding company based in the territory of a Member State and subject to the supervision requirements laid down in that law on a consolidated basis.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u193	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 34, which in the report of the committee shall become § 35. Please vote. Cancel the vote. The roll call list! Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valentin Stefanov Vasilev - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - here Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - absent Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - absent Galya Simeonova Georgieva - absent Georg Danylov Georgiev - absent Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bojinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - absent Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - absent Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - absent Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - absent Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - absent Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - absent Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - absent Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - here Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - absent Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - absent Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - absent Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - absent Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - absent Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Christian Radev Mitev - absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hüseyin Hassan Hafuzov - here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - absent Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - absent Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - here Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - absent Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Iankov - absent [[The hall includes MPs and are enrolled with Vice-Presidents Ivan Ivanov and Aliosman Imamov.]] 122 people present. There's a quorum. Let's move on. I shall put to the vote § 34 by importer which, in the Commission's report, shall become § 35. Vote 79 MPs: 75 against 3, abstention 1. Paragraph 34 by importer which, according to the Commission report, becomes § 35, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u194	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u195	Statements? I won't. We shall vote on § 35 and § 36 by importer, which in the Commission report shall become § 36 and § 37 respectively. Vote 88 MPs: 85 against 2, abstention 1. Paragraphs 35 and 36 by importer which, in the Commission report, become § 36 and § 37, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u196	Paragraph 37. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 37, which shall become § 38: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 24, para. 4, 7 and 8 24c, para. Art. 1, art. 24d
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u197	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for § 37 by importer, which shall become § 38 by its report. They voted 83 MPs: 82 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraph 38 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u198	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for §38 and § 39 which shall become § 39 and § 40 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u199	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for § 38 and § 39 which shall become § 39 and § 40 in the Commission report. Vote 75 MPs: 74 against 1, no abstentions. The import texts of § 38 and § 39, which take place in the Commission report § 39 and § 40, are adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u200	Paragraph 40. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 40, which shall become § 41: ............................................................................. The name of Part Three is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u201	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for § 40 by importer, which in the Commission's report shall become § 41. Vote 77 MPs: 76 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraph 41 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u202	Paragraph 41. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 41, which shall become § 42: .............................................................................. The name of Chapter 6 is amended as follows: "Cooperation and exchange of information with other competent authorities, the European Securities and Markets Authority and the European Banking Authority'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u203	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 41 by importer, which in the Commission's report shall become § 42. Vote 80 MPs: 79 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraph 42 of the Commission's report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u204	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, § 43 and § 44 which, when renumbering, becomes § 43, § 44 and § 45 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u205	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote paragraphs by importer from 42 to 44 including, on the Commission's report, paragraphs 43 to 45 inclusive. Vote 66 MPs: 65 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraphs by importer which, in the Commission's report, take up numbers § 43, § 44 and § 45, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u206	Paragraph 45. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 45, which shall become § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Section IIa with Article 6a shall be established in Chapter 6. 116a-116e: "Department IIa" Exchange of information with other competent authorities, and The European Banking Authority in the exercise of supervision to comply with capital adequacy and liquidity requirements Art. 116a. (1) The Commission shall, in carrying out its supervisory powers to comply with capital adequacy and liquidity requirements, cooperate with the relevant competent authorities where an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria operates through a branch in another Member State or where an investment firm from another Member State operates through a branch in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) In carrying out the cooperation under para. 1 The Commission shall exchange information and documents with the relevant competent authorities: 1. on the management and ownership of investment firms necessary for the supervision or verification of the conditions for their licensing; 2. necessary for the supervision of investment firms on an individual basis and on a consolidated basis, including their liquidity, solvency, restrictions on large exposures, other factors that may affect the systemic risk posed by the activity of the investment firm, administrative and accounting procedures and internal control mechanisms. (3) At the request of a competent authority of a host Member State, the Commission shall provide clarification on how the information and findings provided under para. 2. (4) Where an investment firm authorised in another Member State operates in the Republic of Bulgaria through a branch, the Commission may refer to the competent authorities of the home Member State a request for clarification of how the information and findings provided by it are taken into account. (5) Where he considers that the information provided by him under para. 2 has not resulted in appropriate measures being taken, the Commission, after notifying the competent authorities of the home Member State and EBA, shall take appropriate measures to prevent subsequent infringements in order to protect the interests of users of services or the stability of the financial system. (6) Where the Commission disagrees with the measures which the competent authority of the host Member State intends to apply on the basis of the information and clarification provided by the Commission, it may refer the matter to EBA pursuant to art. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010. Art. 116b. (1) Where an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria operates through a branch in one or more Member States, the Commission shall immediately send to the competent authorities of the host Member State the information and findings obtained in relation to liquidity supervision pursuant to Part Six of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and on a consolidated basis insofar as they are relevant for the protection of investors in the host Member State concerned. (2) Where, in respect of an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria operating in one or more Member States through a branch, there is or there is reasonable doubt that liquidity difficulties may arise, the Commission shall immediately inform the competent authorities of all host Member States thereof, including the establishment and implementation of a recovery plan and the supervisory measures taken. Art. 116c. Where a competent authority of a Member State has not provided the Commission with essential information or a request to the Commission for the exchange of appropriate information has been refused or has not been implemented within a reasonable period, the Commission may refer the matter to EBA in accordance with art. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010. Art. 116 C.E. (1) In cases where an investment firm authorised in another Member State operates in the Republic of Bulgaria through a branch, the competent authorities of the home Member State, after having notified the Commission in advance, may independently or with the assistance of authorised persons to carry out on-the-spot checks in the branch of the information under art. 116a, para. 2. The competent authorities of the home Member State may, for the purpose of on-the-spot verification, refer to one or more of the checks under art. 72n. (2) The Commission, after prior notification to the competent authorities of the host Member State, may carry out on-the-spot checks at a branch of an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria and operating in the territory of the host Member State through a branch. In such cases, the law of the Member State concerned shall apply. (3) The Commission may, for the purposes of on-the-spot verification of a branch of an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria, apply one or more of the checks under art. 72n. Art. 116e. (1) The Vice-President may carry out an on-the-spot check at a branch of an investment firm operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and request information on the activities of the branch as well as on supervisory purposes where the information is relevant for maintaining the stability of the financial system in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) Before carrying out the verification, the Commission shall consult the competent authorities of the home Member State. After the verification, the Commission shall provide the competent authorities of the home country with the information received and the findings made relevant for the assessment of the risk of the investment firm or for the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) When preparing the supervisory review plan, the Commission shall take into account the information and findings received from the competent authority of the host Member State as a result of on-the-spot checks at the branch of an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria, including the stability of the financial system in the host Member State.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u207	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 46 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u208	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 47.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u209	We vote. Vote 77 MPs: 76 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u210	Under § 47, there is a proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 47, which shall become § 48: ............... 48............................................................... Article 118 is amended as follows: Art. 118. (1) When establishing that an investment firm or a regulated market, its employees, a member of a management or control body of the investment firm, persons exercising contractual management functions, persons entering into transactions at the expense of the investment firm, and persons holding qualified participation, have carried out or operating in breach of that law, Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, their implementing acts, the regulations or other internal acts approved by the Vice-President of the regulated markets in financial instruments, decisions of the committee or of the Vice-President, and where the exercise of control activities by the committee or by the Vice-President or the interests of investors, the committee, the Vice-President, respectively, may: 1. oblige them to take specific measures necessary to prevent and eliminate infringements, their harmful effects or the risk to investors' interests within a specified period; 2. convene a general meeting on a specific agenda and/or schedule a meeting of the management or control bodies of the controlled persons to decide on the measures to be taken; 3. inform the public of an activity that threatens the interests of investors; 4. suspend trade in certain financial instruments; 5. order a supervised entity to release in writing one or more persons authorised to manage and represent the person concerned and to withdraw its management and representative rights until his release; 6. appoint Quaestors in the cases provided for in this Law; 7. appoint a registered auditor to carry out a financial or other verification of a supervised entity according to requirements laid down by the Vice-President; 8. request the imposition of a claim on property; 9. remove from trading on a regulated market or from another trading system financial instruments; 10. impose a temporary ban on the performance of the functions of a member of a management or control body or of another person authorised to manage and represent the investment firm; 11. oblige an investment firm to hold own funds exceeding the requirements laid down by the ordinance under art. 8a, para. 3 and in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, in relation to the risks or elements thereof that do not fall within the scope of art. 1 of that Regulation; 12. oblige the investment firm to change its internal rules and procedures; 13. oblige the investment firm to submit a plan for bringing the activity into line with the regulatory requirements containing a deadline for its implementation, which shall be implemented by the investment firm after its approval by the Vice-President; 14. oblige the investment firm to apply a special policy for the improvisation or treatment of assets through own funds requirements; 15. limit the activity of an investment firm by prohibiting it from performing certain transactions, services, activities and/or operations; 16. prohibit the activity of an investment firm through a branch or in the case of the free provision of services and oblige the investment firm to submit to the Commission a plan for the settlement of relations with its clients, as well as evidence of the settlement of such relations; 17. order the investment firm to take action to reduce the risk inherent in its activities, products and systems; 18. order a limitation of the operating costs of the investment firm, including variable remuneration as a percentage of the total net revenue, where this is incompatible with the maintenance of sufficient equity, and/or prohibit payment; 19. order the investment firm to use its net profit to increase own funds or to prohibit it: (a) the payment of dividends or the allocation of capital in any other form; or (b) the payment of interest to shareholders or holders of Additional Tier 1 instruments, while compliance with this prohibition does not constitute a failure by the investment firm to comply with the instruments; 20. request additional or more frequent information from the investment firm, including capital adequacy and liquidity; 21. apply to the investment firm special liquidity requirements, including restrictions on maturity mismatches between assets and liabilities; 22. request public disclosure of additional information from the investment firm. (2) Where it is established that an investment firm shall carry out transactions or operations in breach of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and its implementing acts, the Commission may apply a measure under para. 1. The Commission, respectively, the Vice-President, shall inform the State Agency of the opening of the proceedings for the enforcement of the forced administrative measure. (3) The Vice-President shall apply the additional capital requirement under para. 1, t. 11, if: 1. the investment firm shall not meet the requirements of art. 8a, para. Art. 1, art. 24, para. 1, t. 11th para. Art. 4 and art. 25a of this law or art. of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; 2. the risks or elements thereof are not covered by the own funds requirements under this law, its implementing acts or Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; 3. as a result of the independent implementation of other measures, the investment firm shall not be expected to improve its rules, procedures, mechanisms and strategies within the time limit set for the implementation of those measures; 4. the supervisory review reveals that non-compliance with the requirements for the application of the relevant approach is likely to lead to non-compliance with the applicable own funds requirements under that law, Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and their implementing acts; 5. on the basis of the evidence collected, it may reasonably be assumed that the investment firm underestimates the risks despite complying with the applicable requirements of that law, Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and their implementing acts; 6. the investment firm has notified the Commission that the results of the stress test under art. 377 (5) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 significantly exceeds the capital requirement for its correlation trading portfolio. (4) The determination of the additional capital requirement under para. 1, t. 11 shall be carried out on the basis of the supervisory review and evaluation carried out, taking into account: 1. the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the evaluation process applied by the investment firm; 2. the rules, processes and measures under art. 24 implemented by the investment firm; 3. the results of the review and assessment carried out in relation to capital adequacy and liquidity requirements; 4. the assessment of systemic risk. (5) In the cases under para. 1, t. 16 where a permanent ban on the operation of an investment firm's branch is imposed, the relevant investment firm's authority shall decide to terminate the branch's activities, to settle the relationship with the clients and to delete it from the relevant trading register. (6) The Commission, respectively the Vice-President may implement the measures under para. 1 and where, on the basis of the evidence collected, it can reasonably assume that the investment firm in the next 12 months will breach provisions of that law, Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 or their implementing acts. (7) Where the Commission finds that investment firms with similar risk profile are or may be exposed to similar risks or create similar risks to the financial system, the Vice-President may, respectively, carry out to them the supervisory review and supervisory assessment and apply the appropriate supervisory measures in a similar or identical manner. In such cases, the Commission shall notify EBA. (8) In the cases under para. 1 and 2 Vice-Presidents may order the publication of information on the natural person whose action or omission the infringement has been committed, on the investment firm that committed the infringement and on the type of infringement. (9) At the request of the Commission, respectively to the Vice-President, the Registry Agency shall record the circumstances, respectively, the acts under para. 1-8, in the trade register. (10) For the prevention and cessation of infringement of Regulation (EU) No1031/2010 by persons authorised under art. 7, para. H, as well as in obstructing the control activities of the committee or Vice-President of the Commission, respectively the Vice-President, shall take action under para. 1 and 9. (11) The Commission or the Vice-President may take action under para. 1, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 and in breach of the provisions of the implementing acts of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and of Directive 2013/36/EU. (12) The provisions of this Article shall also apply to financial holding companies and mixed financial holding companies in respect of which, under the applicable legislation, the Commission shall supervise.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u211	Report the supported texts as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u212	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, § 49 and § 50, which shall respectively become § 49, § 50 and § 51. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u213	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote by the version of the Commission § 48 and the paragraphs supported by the importer which have changed numbering up to § 52 inclusive. We are voting from § 48 to § 52, including on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: 76 against 2, no abstentions. Procedure, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u214	Thank you, Madam President. I have a procedural proposal. Since the Education Committee has an extraordinary meeting scheduled to take place, there will be a lot of ministers and so on, and we are not able to adopt this long and bulky text today, please terminate the meeting and at the first session on Wednesday to be item No 1. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-24.u215	In the second part, your proposal is unacceptable because the next plenary week's programme is determined by a deliberate decision of the National Assembly, which will take place on Wednesday. However, as regards the first part of your proposal, I am obliged to ask for a reverse opinion. A motion has been made to terminate the meeting. Colleagues, the basis is art. 52, para. 2, p. 1. Mr. Dimitrov, in the admissible part of his proposal, proposed the suspension of the meeting today. Is there a reverse offer? We vote. They voted 83 MPs: 69, against 10, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. The next regular plenary session is next Wednesday. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
