ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Members of Parliament, we are holding an extraordinary plenary session today, with three items on the agenda: "1." Choice of Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. The selection procedure is in accordance with the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 10 June 2015. 2. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Energy Act. Importers are Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov, First Draft; and Second Draft of Dimitar Tanev, Martin Dimitrov and Nayden Zelenogorski. 3. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions. Importer of the Council of Ministers. [[Reply from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan.]] Moving on to point one: SELECTION OF THE MANAGGER OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S BANK. Mr. Mestan's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We move to a very important item on the agenda: A draft decision for the election of a governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. We are all aware that on these topics, we must also make extra-party efforts, especially in view of the situation in neighbouring Greece. That is why, Madam President, is also my procedure on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group. Dear colleagues, today we need to proceed to the selection of the Governor of BNB as part of the motivation for support or non-support of the candidates should be stated in advance by each of the candidates in what position the team of undergraduators will manage the Bank in the next term, precisely because the governors have relative autonomy for their portfolios and given the fact that only the manager can nominate them, the team with which he intends to manage one of the most important institutions in Bulgaria should actually be an important guide for the parliamentary groups who should be supported and respectively who should not be supported. I declare responsibly that, otherwise, the DPS Parliamentary Group will not support any candidate who does not have the valor as part of presenting his concept to announce and the team who intends to exercise its powers during the mandate which is legally assigned to him. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u3	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! In accordance with art. 52, para. 2 I propose a delay in the discussions on the election of the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank until the Constitutional Court has ruled in a case. To recall, a group of 74 MPs from various parliamentary groups submitted a request to the Constitutional Court on which Constitutional Case No 5 of 2015 was initiated on 6 July 2015. Given the great public interest in the conduct of a truly transparent choice of governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, I find it unjustified that the current procedure should continue in the event of a constitutional dispute. The emerging legal uncertainty could vitiate that all lawyers in parliament, the legitimacy of the upcoming election of the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. Therefore, I propose that the procedure be suspended until the Constitutional Court has ruled in Case No 5, as I said, 2015. I propose a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u5	Just to remind you that the decision of the National Assembly, with the inclusion of the item in the extraordinary plenary sitting today, was taken after the signal to the Constitutional Court. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the motion made to postpone the point of today's sitting. Vote 151 MPs: 46 against 89 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted. The way you're leading it? [[Reply from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan.]] Here you go, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u6	Madam President, I expected you to put to the vote the procedural proposal I made on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group. If you consider it necessary, you may also see it as an Adhok proposal, which complements the rules of procedure for choice. This is part of the transparency of this choice. I think he's impossible without the idea of the team that the future manager will be working with. Otherwise you take heavy responsibility for your majority to choose it and, respectively, to be responsible for all its actions. Please put the procedural proposal to the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u7	Mr. Mestan, I considered, first of all, to recall the rules of procedure and to declare that there was essentially a proposal to supplement the rules of procedure. I therefore recall the promulgated decision of the National Assembly in No. 44 of this year's Official Gazette: "V." Election of a candidate for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank by the National Assembly: "1." The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidate will be present at the meeting with a decision of the National Assembly. "2." The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held on the application under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the names of the candidates, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. In the decision we have adopted, I do not see the possibility of answering questions if such questions are addressed to the candidates, at which point they could also commit to such a proposal. I take it there's been a procedural proposal to supplement the rules. Inverse opinion of Mr. Mestan's proposal? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Mestan's proposal, made on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank to declare before the National Assembly's stand for the teams of the governors, that was the proposal with which they would be committed to work if the parliament elected them with the governor of BNB. Vote 179 MPs: for 85, against 34, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. To re-vote, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You've just discredited the election of a BNB governor. I call for more responsibility. Didn't you make a commitment that we would manage transparently? What is more transparent than choosing a manager who, before choosing to state what team he will work with?! Once again, the governors are autonomous, and since only the manager can offer them, today it's like choosing his team. How are we gonna pick him without knowing what his team's gonna be like? You're discrediting choice in the bud. We want a re-vote! Otherwise, you give the impression of agreements that you would not want to be sanctified before the election of a manager. He doesn't honor you! Think about it. Revoting, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u9	Revoting, coworkers! Vote 186 MPs: 91, against 40, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. [[Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is leaving the Chamber.]] For procedure, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I ask those who leave the hall to wait for a moment or to return, because we have a further procedural opportunity today to make an addition to the procedure for the election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. It is really necessary, without reaching a merger of the two procedures for the selection of governors and sub-governments, that the questions to the candidates, which are important, be able to be put and that they may be able briefly at the end of the discussion to respond to them, if they consider this appropriate. Therefore, honourable Members, I propose the following addition to the procedural rules to vote and which I think will give greater solidity and the necessary seriousness to the discussion and the choice: After the discussion is concluded, the candidates have the right to answer questions raised by the Members of the National Assembly within 5 minutes for each of the candidates. I think it is appropriate, once presented by the Commission, by the applicants and heard the discussion, to be able to deal with it and, if they consider it, to respond to the questions that are important to guide the Members of the National Assembly before they make their final decision whether and which of the candidates to be supported. I will read again, Madam President, my proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u11	Which dot should we do it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u12	The numbering of the point, I think, is not so significant, but I suggest the content of the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u13	In t. 4 you're offering a new heel?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u14	Yes: After the discussion is completed, the candidates have the right to answer questions raised by the MPs and within 5 minutes for each of the candidates.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u15	A counterproposal of this procedural proposal? I won't. I put the proposal to the vote on a new item. 5, and the current fifth is moving one point backwards with the content Mr. Yanaki Stoilov has offered us. Voting mode. They voted 164 MPs: 86, against 10, abstention 68. The motion is accepted. We've recalled the rules of procedure. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mr. Gechev, if you give Mrs. Stoyanova a chance to introduce us to the report...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u16	Mrs. Chairman! Allow me, before presenting the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, to ask for a procedure in the Chamber to be allowed the four candidates as governor of BNB, namely Mr. Biser Stoyanov Manolov, Mr. Viktor Ivanov Yotsov, Mr. Grigory Tsvetanov Vazov, Mr. Dimitar Borisov Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u17	I put to the vote the proposed procedural proposal for admission in the Chamber of the candidates nominated and heard by the Commission as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. They voted 143 MPs: 142, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Quaestors, invite the candidates.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u18	Madam President, the report by the Committee on Budget and Finance is quite detailed and long. It is on the website of the National Assembly, sent to the MPs. I believe that they have met him and there is a detailed description of the entire procedure of the Committee on Budget and Finance with details on questions and answers. Therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure, I will only read a summary of this report. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance for hearing the proposed candidates Biser Stoyanov Manolov, Viktor Ivanov Yotsov, Grigory Tsvetanov Vazov and Dimitar Borisov Radev as Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank At an open meeting held on 9 July 2015 and aired in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Budget and Finance Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank under Section III of the adopted Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. The President of the Budget and Finance Committee Mrs. Menda Stoyanova noted that the documents presented by the four candidates Biser Manolov, Viktor Yotsov, Gregory Vazov and Dimitar Radev meet the requirements of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank for the occupation of the Bulgarian National Bank and should be admitted to a hearing. Mr. Biser Manolov's candidacy, proposed by the parliamentary group "Reformator's Block" was presented by the MP Dimitar Tanev. After the presentation of the application was moved to the personal presentation of Mr. Manolov and his concept of the activities of the Bulgarian National Bank. In his exhibition the Eurozone is focusing on the role of the central bank as an active participant on the country's accession to the Eurozone. In his concept Mr. Manolov advocated that steps should be taken immediately towards the country's accession to the Single Supervisory Mechanism, as it aims to achieve such a level of bank regulation and asset quality in the banking system, which will limit the use of public funds in the event of a crisis. Mr. Manolov stressed that such membership in the Single Supervisory Mechanism, without being members of the Eurozone, has its negative sides and yet, according to him, the positives are much more than the negatives. In his exhibition Mr. Manolov outlined the changes that should take place in the Bulgarian National Bank in view of the events in the banking system in 2014. According to him, first of all, the early warning system must be taken out of the Directorate of the Bank of Bulgaria's National Bank and go to direct submission of the Governing Council. In this way, the Governing Council will not be placed in a position to decide at critical times without available information and control over the ongoing exercise of supervisory functions. In conclusion, Mr. Manolov noted that if banks are regulatoryly pressured, then proper supervision should be exercised on them. But if they are regulatoryly harassed, then they will withdraw from their main activity to credit, and at present entrepreneurship is at a disastrously low level. In this sense, if you don't have funding, you can't be enterprising. According to T. 5 of Section III of the Rules of Procedure Mrs. Menda Stoyanova presented in summary the questions submitted to all candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank of the newspaper "Capital" and "Economix."bg," which can be grouped into the following groups. I'm not gonna read the bands. In the course of the hearing were asked questions by the MPs Georgi Kadiev, Petar Chobanov, Nikolay Alexandrov, Aliosman Imamov, Georgi Tarnovalyski. In response to the questions asked, Mr. Manolov noted that the administrative capacity should be increased in the Directorate of Bank Supervision and this is indisputable. As far as the case is concerned, the entire Board of Directors should be responsible from a moral point of view. Regarding Mario Draghi's speech, he voiced confidence that Bulgaria still has to make a lot of effort to do its homework before applying for membership in the Eurozone. Mr. Viktor Yotsov's candidacy, proposed by the ABB Parliamentary Group, was presented by the MP Georgi Kuchukov. After the presentation of the application was moved to the personal presentation of Mr. Yotsov and his concept of the activities of the Bulgarian National Bank. In his exhibition Mr. Yotsov emphasized on several moments: the role of the Bulgarian National Bank in our economic and social life; a brief reading of the events in the Corporate Commercial Bank and what measures should be taken in the field of banking supervision. According to Mr. Yotsov, in order to restore confidence in the supervisory function of the bank, measures should be taken to include not only structural and personal changes in the field of banking supervision by strengthening the role of remote supervision; better communication of supervisory checks should be carried out, and the balance between public interest and professional and banking secrecy must be found. In his exhibition Mr. Yotsov stressed that the country should go to join the Banking Union, and before that a review and evaluation of the assets should be carried out, then stress tests will be carried out. According to T. 5 of Section III of the Rules of Procedure Mrs. Menda Stoyanova presented again in the summary the questions submitted to all candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank of the newspaper "Capital" and "Economix."bg. In response to the questions, Mr. Yotsov noted that first of all there should be remote supervision to monitor the data and in the event of a problem of performing an on-site surveillance check. Questions and opinions were asked to the candidate by the MPs Georgi Kovachev, Nikolay Alexandrov, Petar Chobanov and Dimitar Tanev. In response to the questions Mr. Yotsov noted that accession is a political process and in this sense the Bulgarian National Bank is not a leading one. Mr. Yotsov noted that the members of the Governing Council are not legally responsible, but rather morally. Mr. Gregory Vazov's candidacy, proposed by the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front, was presented by the MPs Polina Karastoyanova and Emil Dimitrov. After the presentation of the application, the personal presentation of Assoc. Vazov and expose his concept of the activities of the Bulgarian National Bank. You're at the Assoc. Vazov emphasized on the vision for the short-term development of the Bulgarian National Bank, because the presentation of the previous candidates concerned in detail the development of the bank in the medium and long-term aspect, namely the country's accession to the Eurozone and the Single Banking Supervision. In the medium term, the Currency Board should be maintained. According to Assoc. Vazov was practically attacking the Currency Board in 2014. Prof. Vazov welcomed the government's decision to establish a Coordination Council to prepare the country for membership in the Eurozone. According to T. 5 of Section III of the Rules of Procedure Mrs. Menda Stoyanova presented again in the summary the questions submitted to all candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank of the newspaper "Capital" and "Economix."bg. In response to the questions asked, Assoc. Vazov noted that supervisory on-the-spot checks should be carried out more frequently, but he expressed serious doubts as to the nature and quality of these publications regarding the conduct of publications. On the question of how much publicity should be made on the agenda and decisions of the Governing Council, Assoc. Vazov pointed out that we should be very careful because a serious part of this information is an element of Bulgarian national security. With regard to the crisis in Greece, his opinion is also that what has been done so far by the Bulgarian National Bank is sufficient and cannot be done to protect the banks with Greek capital. The candidate was asked questions by the National Representative Petar Chobanov if he would accept to take up the post of deputy governor if he was not elected governor. In response Assoc. Vazov pointed out that he always played only for the first place, thus excluding the possibility to accept the post of governor if offered. He categorically supports the thesis of a hard Currency Board, as it is now, until the entry of the country into the Eurozone. Mr. Dimitar Radev's candidacy, proposed by the GERB Parliamentary Group and supported by the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block, was presented by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, Chairman of the Budget and Finance Committee. After the presentation of the application was moved to the personal presentation of Mr. Radev and his concept of the activities of the Bulgarian National Bank. Mr. Radev developed his concept in three main directions: immediate measures; strategic objectives and institutional development. The logic of his exhibition is that it is necessary, above all, urgent steps to restore public confidence in the Bulgarian National Bank. However, these steps will only achieve a sustainable outcome if they are carried out in the context of clearly defined strategic objectives, which in turn will give the direction for the institutional development of the Central Bank. Then he examined in detail each of these parts and developed them in practice in a management program. Ms. Menda Stoyanova presented the questions of the Institute for Modern Policy addressed only to Mr. Radev, but not to the other candidates. Mr. Radev replied by stressing that the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank defines clearly and gives the legal framework for the independence of its governor.There is therefore no more secure way to ensure the independence of BNB than political pressure from the strict implementation of the provisions of the Law and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Finally, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova also presented the questions of the newspaper "19 minutes" which are again addressed only to Mr. Radev, but not to the other candidates. She noted that the questions addressed to Mr. Radev are quite nagging and summarized them into four groups. Mr. Radev thanked him for his questions, regardless of their tone, pointing out that some of them have already been answered. With regard to the claim of conflict of interest, he pointed out that anyone having doubts may request the committee responsible and receive an answer. With regard to Moldova, he said he never had professional responsibilities in Moldova and therefore could not understand the issue. As far as personal matters are concerned, they are therefore also personal because they are not subject to public discussions. Questions were asked to the candidate by the MPs Emil Dimitrov, Petar Chobanov, Nikolay Alexandrov, Georgi Turnovalyski, Dimitar Tanev, Georgi Kadiev. In response to the questions asked, Mr. Radev pointed out that the restructuring unit will not be in the management of the Bank's supervision but rather in the management of the Bank's management or the direct submission of the bank's manager. But that will only be specified after the selection of a team. With regard to the choice of voters, his choice will definitely be technocratic, requiring first integrity, and then expertise from candidates. Mr. Radev pointed out that the structure and main content of the entire summary was prepared by himself, after which he was consulted with the people with whom he plans to work, as a result of which some changes were made. To Mr. Kadiev's question, Mr. Radev replied that from his contacts with people at expert levels there is no impression that the Bulgarian National Bank is highly politicized. One of the things he will care about very much if he is elected is that the Bank is as far away from political influences as possible. The Committee on Budget and Finance found that the four candidates met the legal requirements for taking up the position of Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. The expertise, administrative and management experience gained by the proposed candidates and the qualifications they acquired are positive prerequisites for the implementation of competent and responsible management of the Bulgarian National Bank. On the basis of the hearing, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to examine and vote on the proposed applications of Biser Stoyanov Manolov, Viktor Ivanov Yotsov, Grigory Tsvetanov Vazov and Dimitar Borisov Radev as Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank under Section IV of the Rules of Procedure, to which it applies to this report Draft decision for each candidate. On the basis of his resignation to the National Assembly, by letter No 507/15 of 23.06.2015 by Ivan Ganchev Iskrov as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, with effect from 10 July 2015, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 17 votes for the National Bank, with no objection and no abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to release Ivan Ganchev Iskrov from the office of Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. There are four projects for decisions for the election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank and one Project for a decision for the release of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. According to T. 3 of the Rules of Procedure should be presented in alphabetical order, in accordance with the personal name, by the importers who made their proposal. Before that, however, a procedure by Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! In view of the importance of the election of the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank and given that the candidates can be asked questions and heard, I propose that the debate and the meeting be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u21	A reverse opinion? Colleagues, I would like to recall that. 1 I read it to you, we have accepted the meeting to be broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. However, there is a procedure. I put to the vote the proposal for direct broadcast on BNT and BNR. They voted 109 MPs: 48, against 3, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u22	As some of the colleagues came in and failed to vote, I ask for a re-vote. However, to remind you that one thing is the Internet, a whole other thing is National Television, where more people can really get to what is happening. And in the spirit of transparency that we are all calling for, we are making this proposal. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u23	It's a re-vote. They voted 119 MPs: 52, against 10, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I would like a representative of the Reformation Block Group's importers to present Mr. Biser Manolov's candidacy. Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u24	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have the honour to present Mr. Biser Manolov's candidacy. This is the nomination of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block as Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. I present him to you as one of the most authentic experts in the financial sector and the banking sector. He is a Master of Economics from the UNWE. He has more than 20 years of experience in the banking system, where he worked as Head of the Vault Accounting Department, Head of the Department of Liquidity. He was also the head dealer of UniCredit Bulbank. Since the end of 2002 he has been Chairman of the Management Board of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, which holds two mandates until 2011. He has been elected for two consecutive terms as a member of the Governing Council of the prestigious International Deposit Insurance Association based in Switzerland. He is currently a member of the Board of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. In the concept presented by Mr. Manolov he outlined the challenges to the banking sector and BNB and its vision as a potential governor of BNB, which in summary are the following. First, a reform of the banking sector. Establishment of a mechanism in BNB to ensure equal access to correct financial information and capacity for rapid and effective response to financial crises. Secondly, an immediate assessment of the quality of bank assets and a stress test of crisis response capabilities. Thirdly, Bulgaria's behaviour towards the Single Banking Supervision and in the medium term towards the Eurozone, which will give additional security to the banking and financial sector. Fourth, Bulgaria and its technical readiness to begin the procedure for entering the IAREM 2. Fifthly, the establishment of a joint steering committee to lead the process of Bulgaria's accession to the Eurozone. In his presentation Mr. Manolov in an indisputable and authoritative way defended his concept and competent answers to all questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u25	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. Now I expect Mr. Victor Ivanov Yotsov's candidacy to be presented. Mr. Kuchukov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will present very briefly ABB's candidacy as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank of Mr. Viktor Yotsov. We are all aware of how responsible the choice of governor of the Bulgarian National Bank is, at least because of the fact that the credit of trust in the Bulgarian National Bank fell very much along with the actions and omissions of individual managers of the Bulgarian National Bank on the affair with Corporate Commercial Bank. Restoring this credit of trust requires a person with impeccable reputation, authority in professional circles and deep knowledge of the specifics and role of the Central Bank. On the other hand, an important moment in the activities of the future governor will be the activity of the Bulgarian National Bank for the transition between the system of currency board and membership in the Eurozone. We believe that Mr. Viktor Yotsov's candidacy meets the requirements of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. He is a doctor of economics who defended at the Economic Institute of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. He specialized in the World Bank, Austria, Switzerland and Great Britain. However, he is not only a theorist, but also has extensive practical experience. He has worked for five years in the Bulgarian National Bank, has reached the Chief Economist and Head of the Economic Research and Prognosis Directorate. For seven years he has been representative of Bulgaria in the International Monetary Fund and adviser to the Executive Director. Currently engaged in scientific activities at the UNWE and BAS.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Kuchukov. The next candidate is Gregory Tsvetanov Vazov. It is made by the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front and will be represented by its co-chair Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Prof. Grigory Vazov is a PhD in Economics, President and Rector of the Higher School of Insurance and Finance, Secretary General of the Council of Rectors of Higher Schools in Bulgaria. A man with 43 years of experience and experience in finance and banking. A PhD in Economics with a Protected PhD thesis, in his biography he was gradually an assistant, senior assistant, associate professor of the University of National and World Economy, Dean of the Financial Accounting Faculty at the same university, Deputy Minister of Industry from 1992 to 1994, member of the Board of Directors of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation, President of the Higher School of Insurance and Finance, which he himself created, which he owns, an extremely influential and authoritative institution in the financial and banking world of Bulgaria, head and participant of a number of practical and applied projects related to the financial analysis of Cremikovtsi, Asarel-Medet, Metro-intainment Joint in the financial and banking world of Plovdiv, Plovdiv, Plovdiv, Phodiv, Phodlovdiv and many others. A man with extensive practical experience. To your attention, I suggest this difficult biography of a man with extensive experience, with practice, erudition and authority. This man has the dignity that his famous family has, one of the greatest families in Bulgarian history, the family of the Vazovi family. A man of character, dignity, consistency, competence. A guy who gets punches, falls, gets up, fights and wins. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Our National Bank needs an executive like that. Which is why I strongly recommend Mr. Gregory Vazov's candidacy. And finally, the last sentence, Mr. Chairman, I will draw the curtain. This is not a proposal on the Patriotic Front, but a proposal of the Bulgarian bank capital that must survive. Thank you. [[Applause from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. And the last application, which is offered to your attention by the GERB Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The parliamentary group of the Political Party GERB proposes as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank Mr. Dimitar Borisov Radev. Mr. Radev is a financier with extremely rich experience gained over 35 years both in the country and internationally. As Deputy Minister of Finance in six consecutive governments since 1991, he has a leading role in building the modern system for drafting, implementing and reporting the state budget, the regulatory framework, including the State Budget Structure Act, to key budgetary management systems, including those for formulating the macroeconomic framework of the budget, the Treasury, the single account for budget execution, fiscal reserve, budgetary accounting and state financial statistics. It has made an important contribution to fiscal consolidation in the country since 1997, as a result of which the state budget was balanced and launched a 10-year period of budget surpluses. Mr. Radev has considerable experience in bank management as well. He participated three years in the Supervisory Board of the Commercial Bank and seven years as a member of the Administrative Board the authority responsible for the operational management of the Development Bank of the Council of Europe, the oldest international development bank on our continent. The period in which he participates in the supervision of "Expressbank" is linked to the preservation of the bank's financial stability in the context of a financial crisis and subsequently to its successful privatisation. At the time of participation in the management of the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe, important reforms were carried out in it, including in terms of its capital and governance structure, as a result of which the Bank received the highest credit rating. A recognition of Mr. Radev's qualities is his election by the member states as Vice-President of the Administrative Board of the Bank within two mandates. He is also the first representative of Central and Eastern Europe to hold this high position. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] For the past 14 years Mr. Radev has been working in the International Monetary Fund. During this period, he led missions in the field of public finance management in more than 20 countries in Europe and others in Africa and Asia. As such, it deals with a wide range of issues related to building capacity for macroeconomic analyses and forecasts, budgetary planning and implementation of relations between the Ministry of Finance and central banks. His experience in the International Monetary Fund...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u31	The weather, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u32	... would be extremely useful if he was elected governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. In view of the above, we believe that Mr. Radev has the necessary education, professional experience and public reputation for taking over the position of Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. I am opening the debate, honourable Members. You have the floor to speak. People's representative Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable candidates for the position of Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank! I cannot address government representatives here because they are absent, and I think the importance of this choice, the need for interaction between the government, parliament and the management of the Central Bank are very important to mark such a absence. In my opinion, this is one of the reasons for some of the mishaps in recent years and at several critical times this has also been established. In fact, it seems to me that the parliament is still apologizing for the assessment that I am allowing itself....................................the importance of the issues regarding the functioning of the financial and banking system in Bulgaria................................ If I allow myself a certain paraphrase, I can say that banks are too important to be left to bankers and financiers alone. The role of the Governor and the Board of the Bulgarian National Bank should also be somewhat reconsidered, without meaning a change in their current powers, although this topic should not be left aside from our attention. In a number of cases, the current management of the Central Bank seemed to be perceived as some other edition of the Association of Commercial Banks and to an insufficient extent as a representative and defender of the public interest, which means that to a much greater extent the role of the Bank was not to be referred to as "Banker No 1" because it actually did not deal with banking activities in the commercial sense of the word, but to put these issues which ensure stability and such a way of functioning of the banking system, which would work for the benefit of the real economy, in the interests of citizens as depositors and savers, and as an authority which interacts with other state institutions. I think that we should not expect any deep conceptual reasoning from the candidates today, because we are facing a number of practical issues that cannot be delayed. It is much more important for me to focus our efforts on Bulgaria's preparation for participation in the Single Banking Union and not so much on the next topic for Bulgaria's inclusion in the Eurozone. This issue needs further discussion not only in the light of our readiness, but also in the assessment of all European factors, of the current state of the Eurozone, so it is much better in this respect that the tasks be graded and that the answers to some of these issues be sought after a more careful analysis in the course of carrying out the very management of the banking system. I would therefore like to ask a few questions that concern the management commitments of the future governor. I will expect an answer from each candidate, and at least for me this response will determine the attitude to the vote of each candidate. The lack of response should also be sufficiently indicative, so let them answer the following questions if they are judged. How will they deal with the proposals they are about to make for the people's bank? That's coming soon. Do they share the understanding that not only the manager but the Governing Council as a whole has a joint responsibility for the crisis that has arisen and the bankruptcy of one of the major commercial banks in Bulgaria? Let me remind you that in the consultations for forming a government, the representatives of the Bulgarian Socialist Party made an explicit requirement for such a comprehensive change to be made and now the time has come to answer this question both by the various political forces represented in the parliament and by the future governor of the National Bank. This opinion is also reinforced by the recently adopted report by the Special Commission, which in its conclusions states that the Governing Council, with its actions or omissions, also bears part of the responsibility for what has happened in recent months in Bulgaria. In order to emphasise the importance of this issue when we are talking about a credit of trust given in politics, both the financial system should not have loans without collateral, and there should be no decisions in politics that are not backed up with certain guarantees for future intentions. The second question is: when and how do they intend to re-evaluate the assets of commercial banks? This is a matter of national importance. It is also placed by the European institutions and is part of strengthening the stability of the banking system in Bulgaria. And the third question that can be accepted as optional is: how can each of them provide guarantees of their own independence in terms of their previous professional and personal activities? I will expect the possible answers to these questions, which, I think, should be interesting not to one or another of the MPs, but to the National Assembly as a whole, when we proceed shortly to the important choice. We know the consequences of such elections in past years, and I think that these lessons should be made if we are responsible, if not just in words, but we really want to change the management of the banking system in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Dear colleagues, do you have any comments on the speech of the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov? I won't. The next speech is the People's Representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! In the previous speech you hinted about the responsibility regarding the previous choice and I want to remind you how Ivan Iskrov was re-elected. He was re-elected with the votes of the BSP and the only ones we warned about the risk of work were the right hand. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] All the others had gathered and chosen him in a surprising, almost complete synchronization. The specific questions to be asked to the candidates. The first question to all candidates, and I ask each one of them for a brief and understandable answer, is: did they belong to State Security? I ask that the answer be such that it cannot be ambiguous but be clear, because given all that has happened in the new history of Bulgaria and given the dependencies of which the previous spoke, it should not be that a person who had any belonging to the services of the communist regime should be in the management of the Central Bank. I regret that also with the criteria during the hearing in the Commission this question has not been asked, but now is a good time. One short answer will not be enough for us. In response, I am, and I believe that the entire group of the Reform bloc could not support such a candidate. The second specific question to which a partial answer was given, only the difference is that the transcripts in parliament remain and, as the poet said, weigh with great force, the second specific question to all candidates is: if you are elected, will you apply to the Single Banking Supervision immediately, in a sense without waiting, without delay, without seeking explanations? For us, this must be an exceptional priority. I am very pleased both I and the Group of the Reformation Block that all candidates speak positively about the Eurozone because this is the future. Whatever problems there have been, they can be solved. There is no need to come out of the Eurozone to see the hyperinflation and the results of this, although we may also need to see at some point to understand that Bulgaria's path is only one. There's no point in rushing down this road. Bulgaria's right path is the euro and the Eurozone. There's really no need for haste here, there's no point in good preparation. I ask you this question only from the point of view of the fact that all candidates who are proposed see the Eurozone as the right and inalienable choice for Bulgaria is good for this National Assembly and for the parties who have broadcast these candidates. And last but not least, what will you do so that no more cases like CCB will never happen again? What measures will you take very specifically so that such cases will never occur in your term of office while you are in charge of the Bulgarian National Bank? Very specifically, two things are sufficient supposed measures. Excuse me, the explanation we have heard from the current governor of BNB is not my fault, it is not a fair explanation. Who suggested this guy? Who voted after that? By the way, who voted it is an interesting question. [[BSP LB.]] Here again we include those who chose Iskrov. The same people who chose Iskrov, they also voted under the governor of the Bank's supervision, which is an interesting relationship. [[BSP LB.]] The same ones! What specific measures will you take more cases like CCB not to happen? I hope for specific answers and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? First line, Valerie Jablyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to express my amazement by Mr. Dimitrov's proposal here to answer a question of belonging to special services, in particular State Security, by the candidates for BNB. If this is one of the criteria by which we will choose the candidates for the Bank, then what happened will not happen in the future. I call on you not to put your narrow, I say, doctrines about the development of political and public life in Bulgaria. I propose that this work be abandoned, Mr. Dimitrov, that we end up with this political primitiveism, that we evaluate the candidates for governor of BNB exclusively by their professional qualities and the question of the files to bring it down to the bank records. As it turns out, the previous management has no files, couldn't read well what it said in the banks, so we got here. Please don't bother us with this stupid question about belonging to this one or that one. People in the 21st century can't be judged by such stupid criteria, because there are bankers who are bankers and bankers who only have such a name. The current Board of Directors is responsible for what happened to the Corporate Commercial Bank last year, but the same responsibility is also part of the country's political and state leadership. That's the other question I suggest you keep in mind. We do not choose the leadership of an institution which, although functionally independent, is outside the Bulgarian state. This is a criterion, which should and should be put on the attitude towards the Bulgarian finances, towards the Bulgarian economy and even to the Bulgarian people, because this bank has remained the last institution for sure. I don't know if it is currently a national institution or a national institution that carries this ingredient in its name. And she is highly responsible for the well-being of the Bulgarian nation! I'd like to hear the answer to that question, not who belonged to where.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u39	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Second line, Mr. Metodi Andreev
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What the honourable colleague Martin Dimitrov raised is extremely important. And I'll strengthen it! Let the candidates as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank declare publicly in this Chamber whether they belonged to the former services of the communist regime because for the people on the left, those who very quickly forget what happened, I will say the following: from four governors until now two were agents of the State Security and the third was banker of Kyulev. So the hardest years in the Bulgarian transition were related to such governors as the State Security agents. [[Reply of MP Mihail Mikov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u41	Your line is to Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u42	I support what Mr. Martin Dimitrov said and I insist on a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u43	In your line, you shouldn't support him. So you don't agree that it's only down to Homeland Security... [[National Representative Metodi Andreev continues to speak away from the microphones.]] Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u44	Kyulev, you fed him! You forget very easily.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Mikov, when you scream from there, I can't hear you completely. Thank you, first of all, to the remark of colleague Zablyanov, who even more convinced me with the fire with which he normally defended the agents of State Security that you owe an answer to this question. Because the backstage in Bulgaria depends and is driven throughout the transition from State Security. And many of the whites we've seen, including financials, have these roots. So I'm asking every candidate for a simple answer............................................................................................. We will know what it means and we will know what it means. I would like to say immediately that there are many people in this Chamber who would not support an agent of State Security at the head of the Bulgarian National Bank, and as we understand, BSP would prefer one because for them he would be a more authentic representative of the people. That's how I found out my colleague Jablyanov. And I have no doubt he was sincere in his grades. Thank you also for the reply of colleague Metodi Andreyev. I ask all candidates to answer this question categorically and clearly so that we do not have new cases such as KTB, no new hidden dependencies, to know who we really choose! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Next statement: "Emil Dimitrov."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! Before I begin my speech, I will read you a brief text which, on the first day when we all came to this House, we quoted: "I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria that I will respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people! I swore. The last two months, this text, half the colleagues in this room have forgotten it, ignored it. Dear colleagues, the choice as governor of BNB cannot be contrary to the Constitution. This is an extremely bad example, which today the National Assembly, half of it, is about to give to the whole society. The proposal in essence is: Let's break the Constitution a little bit, because there are no consequences and there are no sanctions, and then we will swear by it and say that we will respect it.! Colleagues from GERB and from the Reformation Bloc before we need changes in the basic Law, we need to change our own attitude to this basic Law. You didn't sign the violation of your rights. I therefore refer to all colleagues who have signed the request to the Constitutional Court to announce the procedure for the election of the Governor of BNB as unconstitutional, namely those from BSP, from the Patriotic Front, from the Democratic Centre, from the Ataka and from the DPS. You can see that the entire spectrum of five political forces, including independent MPs, came up with a common idea not to seize powers rather than behind some or someone's policy or political bias of a political group. By the way, for a long time we have been violating the rights of independent MPs by not giving them the right to participate in committees and essentially half of their parliamentary activities they cannot carry out because of us. But at the same time, we remembered that they, as independent MPs, are MPs and have the right to participate and to nominate, which we were banned from. Colleagues from GERB, do not think that you are expected to make a small procedural violation, which has no consequence. No, there is! You're about to choose an unconstitutional governor today.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u48	You're predestining a Constitutional Court ruling with what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u49	Okay, I take it back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u50	You're interfering with another independent power.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u51	Okay. With regard to candidates. We have a quality candidate who has spent all his life in the banking sector and who has clearly stated: I declare myself first of all, I am not involved in any transactions! Right here, on this stand just now there was a dark backstage -- you'll get our votes if you give us the confidence that we'll get a vice-president. You didn't object to that decision. What happened to the banks? The reason we make this choice and so carefully look into it is not guilty, but there is no money. BNB was most guilty, and now it will turn out that without Iskrov it is the most expert, even the footage they have worked in it are wonderful to continue working in the future. Or whatever it was, from now on it's the same again! Candidates have shown that some of them have never left the banks their whole lives and others have dreamed of going there all their life. Maybe we're about to make someone's dream come true. A bird's flight was applied. Or one person whose only quality is that since the beginning of the century he has not been in Bulgaria, and perhaps the second is that he remembers Jean Videnov, but his entire management team will be of the same Bulgarians, because when he comes from abroad, he is unburdened, but when he comes here, who will he work with? The burdened ones! His entire management team will be one of the same people who helped the previous government. So he changed his clothes, looked at himself, became Simeon Djankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u52	Mr. Dimitrov, I ask you very much to treat all candidates with respect and to highlight the advantages of some, not to affect the dignity of different candidates.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u53	I didn't mention it by name. You're wasting my time. Today it is not here the prime minister of the state, who is actually also a party leader, because his quality is double and of a person who has been legally elected, who has appeared in elections, has taken a majority and rules legally, and a party leader who is leading the majority in parliament. As of today, you gentlemen of GERB and your prime minister will take personal responsibility for a choice against which half of the MPs in parliament have declared themselves. Tomorrow you'll have to make laws with the half that this man will choose. You take personal responsibility. It will serve you from now on. Whenever you come to submit a law, when you want to change something, especially with the banks, I will quote to you the oath of the Constitution and I will remind you that this Law is not adopted for the gentlemen of GERB, but for everyone else, because for them the Constitution does not apply and does not bother them in any way that for a certain period the Constitution is suspended, and then, of course, we will swear on it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u54	What law doesn't apply, Emo?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Let us wait for the Constitutional Court's decision anyway. - What's the line? I won't. Here's your speech, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u56	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! Since the Bulgarian National Bank is a people's bank, I think the people should know the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board and the entire Board of Directors. I have in my hand a question which I asked at the end of last year through Parliamentary control to the Minister of Finance Mr. Vladislav Goranov. My question was rightly returned by the President of Parliament, Mrs Tsacheva, as it is inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure. You know very well that under the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank, wages, salaries of the President of the Bank and of the members of the Governing Council are not governed by the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank, which we vote, but are governed by the Rules on the Work of the Bulgarian National Bank. Dear candidates, I'm addressing you to inform you of the following. According to the information I had at the time and now, the remuneration of the manager of BNB at that date, at the end of last year, as well as the governors, is defined as an average of the remuneration of the chief executives of the BNB at the end of last year. BGN, DSK "about 45 thousand. lv. Each month, Post Bank......................................................................................... lv. a month. Dear colleagues, for your information, until 2007 the manager of BNB received 8 thousand. lv. monthly remuneration plus 3,000. lv. As a member of the Governing Council of BNB and the governors received 7 thousand. lv. plus 3,000. lv. As members of the Governing Council of BNB. Separately, according to different items and criteria for final annual financial result, have received payments, allowances or bonuses. As a Member of the National Assembly, once again, I have received information that the government of BNB is receiving very much please listen carefully to 40 thousand. lv. monthly remuneration, plus their remuneration for work as members of the Board of Directors of BNB. Mr. Iskrov received a salary of about 45 thousand. BGN, i.e. 10% more than the government. [[Replying and shouting.]] In the context of these data, honourable candidates, I ask you to answer the following questions: do you support changes in the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank, changes which we will, of course, vote on in this Parliament to determine your salaries by the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank, i.e. by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria? My question is particularly relevant because there was a provocative statement by Mr. Ivan Iskrov to the Parliamentary Budget and Finance Commission in the Forty-third National Assembly on October 29th last year, to which the Commission he said, I quote: I am not a civil servant and no one in the Bulgarian National Bank is a public official. We pay the salaries of the civil servants. I quote Protocol No 1 of 29 October 2014. Indeed, according to the Civil Service Act Mr. Iskrov is not a civil servant, but the functions he performs, honourable candidates, make him an employee of the state. My second question is: if the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank does not change for any reason, will you announce if you become President of the Bank, the amount of the remuneration of the Governor of BNB and the members of the Board of Directors of BNB? These figures will be included in your annual declarations to the Court of Auditors, which is not currently being made. Third question: will you reduce your salary if you become Chairman, to the size not greater, not higher than the salary of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria? These are the questions I specifically ask you, and I hope that each one of you will answer them. As I said in the beginning BNB is a national bank and the people need to know the truth about your salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. For the next speech there is the popular representative Georgi Kadiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u58	Mr President, honourable Members, I feel some shame about this debate for the following reasons: the government is missing; there is no one whole parliamentary group; there are no half of the other MPs; there are no half of the candidates for governors; there is no President of the Budget Committee. I get the impression that we're doing something proforma and that the real choice has already been made. I attended the meetings of the Budget Committee, which examined the speeches of the four candidates and I would like to share my impressions very clearly. Certainly the best statement was by Mr. Dimitar Radev. Undoubtedly, it was so professional that a person standing in Washington could not do such a thing even a person who is in Bulgaria outside the Central Bank could not make such a statement. I have no doubt that Central Bank officials have helped him in his report, which he has been reading for about half an hour, which I find unfair. I believe that the candidates did not have the same starting position. Mr. Dimitar Radev doesn't need this thing at all. He's a big enough professional, I've heard wonderful words about him from his work at the Ministry of Finance for 14 years at the International Monetary Fund. I think it was completely unnecessary for him to go out on the field with 12 players, given that the others are with 11 players. For me there are many questions left, some of which my fellow Members have raised, I will add a few more. The issue of State Security is not that important to me because, on the one hand, yes, 5200 municipal councillors are being investigated whether they were in State Security or not. It also makes sense that the governor of the Central Bank and the governors should also be examined. On the other hand, the people of the State Security have done a completely different activity and if they declare belonging or not, they have to declare exactly what they have done, because there are a huge number of people who have done quite normal work for the benefit of the state. From a third party, if they declare belonging to a secret institution such as State Security, then they should also declare belonging to all possible similar structures, societies. One of the candidates for governor of the Central Bank, as you know, is a former Grand Master of the United Masonic Lodge. Does that mean he has to be disqualified? I'm not paranoid. For me, this is quite normal. Either way, these are things you need to know. Questions need to be asked, and it must be clear when such people are running for office if, for example, there are people who are from the same societies and whether they will support them because this is unfair again. Once again, one has the advantage over another. The main question I expect from the four candidates to answer is: Will the first question be proposed by the current members of the Board of Directors of BNB in their future team? I strongly state that I cannot support anyone who answers this question for a simple reason. Although the law clearly defines the responsibilities of each member and especially of BNB's undergraduators, the BNB Act also says that decisions are taken by the Governing Council. For me, at least from a moral point of view, they're solidarity responsible. It's very easy to say, "We have nothing in common and only the bank manager is guilty." Then the question arises: why did we want Ivan Iskrov's resignation? He also by law has no responsibility in relation to banking supervision and should still be the governor of the Central Bank to this day. The second question I would like to hear the answer to, I also asked the Budget Committee to one of the candidates. I didn't hear the full answer: how will they guarantee the depoliticisation of the Central Bank? The biggest mistake Ivan Iskrov made was that he allowed the Central Bank to make decisions under political pressure. The emancipation of the politicisation of an institution was that conversation of the then Prime Minister Boyko Borisov with the then head of the Customs Agency, in which he told him: "Hello, Vanyo, I promised some people that we would not check them out. "I do not wish to have a conversation in which today's Prime Minister, again Boyko Borisov, to call the future governor and say: "Hello, Mitko, there is a bank that I promised her not to check it. It's the governor's job. I don't think the Prime Minister will change. I think the governor can change. And he has to make that decision, he has to convince us all today that this thing is not going to happen, because the result of this thing is the KTB affair. If there was no politicisation of BNB, if there was no decision-making under pressure, if there was no hiding information in all these years, there wouldn't be 3.6 billion missing. lv. and the state to pay 1 billion. 600 million. and the Deposit Guarantee Fund to subtract 2 billion. lv. to cover guaranteed deposits. Those are my questions. I very much hope that the candidates will respond specifically and will not escape them. That's up to my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Because the debate began in the direction in which the proposed candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank will be given the opportunity to speak before us, the MPs, and through this hall to reach the Bulgarian citizens. The colleague Martin Dimitrov raised an issue which rather has sentimental value for the political party, on behalf of which he speaks, and historically, but I think that provoked by what I have heard so far, perhaps we should ask the question from a modern point of view to clear the issue with the dependencies: are there candidates who are bound, connected or dependent on active and currently secret services not only Bulgarian, colleagues, but foreign ones? Because it is extremely important, when the door is opened, that it be wide open Bulgarian citizens, all who follow this debate or learn about it, have confidence in the choice that will be made and that it satisfy most of the society. It is an extremely important question: how much will we guarantee interference in the work of the Bulgarian National Bank not only from circles, offices or institutions in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, but also those who are interested in following the events in Bulgaria, and it may be that we make a choice that supports the idea, actions, future intentions of services and institutions that are not Bulgarian? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u61	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, honourable candidates for President of the Bulgarian National Bank, in fact today we need to raise the curtain in several main directions. The first direction was expressed just now in the form of a procedure by the leader of a political party, who conveniently walked out to reduce the quorum and determine the choice, but with his behaviour to leave an open door to shake another Bulgarian bank. But what is the main task of the future head of BNB? First of all, we must clearly and accurately outline the framework which is full of mistrust of this institution. In other words, this candidate, which we must choose today, must be a man of character, a man with a huge arsenal of practical and scientific experience, understandably speaking, a patriot. Why? Because with the establishment of the Bank consolidation company, many of the people seem to have forgotten that what this company intended was to give strength to the Bulgarian bank capital. This Bulgarian bank capital, which is now on its knees, which is a mediator and must receive the financial resources and then provide it as a mediator to the final recipient, which is the name of the entrepreneur. However, those who have been involved in banking, who have taught banking, know very well that the banking system is the blood system of every economy. But this blood system begins to function when the entrepreneur can receive a financial resource under some good conditions and can rely on a partnership by the creditor "something that we do not see to date; something that put the Bulgarian business on its knees and forced it, something more, to export its business out of Bulgaria, as the situation for him is no longer profitable. This is why the future head of BNB should have the support of the Bulgarian bank capital. There is no way for a candidate who has come from somewhere to serve the interest and work for the interest of the Bulgarian financial system. There will always be doubt that this candidate will serve someone else's interests. We cannot fail to ask ourselves this question today and not put it to the ears of the Bulgarian society. In addition, the future head of BNB, who will work under the terms of a Monetary Council, which means in the terms of a monetary board, must have the character, the power to deter the Bulgarian government from actions that threaten the fiscal system of the state. And here, again, a patriot is needed, a man who thinks only about the interest of the Bulgarian state. Over the years, we have seen that the former head of BNB did not have this character to hit the table. Moreover, we must clearly and accurately state that the so-called bankruptcy of CCB was nothing but an attempt to bring down the Monetary Council in Bulgaria and to rob all the accumulated reserves that make up over 20 billion. lv. This was the attempt to bankrupt and bankrupt KTB. Moreover, CCB was not bankrupt as a bank, it was bankrupt as a simple enterprise, which is at least unacceptable for people who understand this activity. So I would call on colleagues today to observe who will vote for and who will vote for the candidate for the one who will protect the Bulgarian banking system, for the one who will enable the Bulgarian business to develop and open jobs with cheap money resources, or for the one who will serve another external interest that will destroy the few remaining businesses in Bulgaria. These are the essential questions. However, I hope that these questions will be answered by the candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u63	Replices to Mr. Bayraktarov? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, honourable candidates for Governor of BNB! Firstly, I will start by saying that we from Attack Party will not support any of the applications. I can base myself on each individual, but I'll start with the general ones mostly. All four candidates for those who did not attend the Budget Committee said we would go to the Eurozone. Perhaps contrary to Mario Draghi's statement of 5 June 2015, all four candidates said that we are going to the Eurozone and are heading firmly. A few questions have been asked, which perhaps only one of the candidates answered them. " What will be the team with which they will work? Most did not respond or give an evasive answer, but only one replied that he would invite the colleagues around him. During the Budget Committee there was also a proposal from some of the colleagues, made as a question, to Mr. Radev: would he prefer one parliamentary group to support it at the expense of another? I mean, a political bargaining chip, and it's clear that it happened. It also happened that many of the candidates were talking about how we would go with these parameters on the currency board that we have at the moment, as they were helpfully missing something that one of the conditions is about the floating course, which, even if we went into Air Em 2, purely hypothetically, in spite of Mario Draghi's President of the European Central Bank, we must keep. To preserve it, it is a political decision that will again go through something that somewhat contradicts itself. They all said that they wanted to be an independent body, that BNB is good to be an independent body, but as we begin today's meeting we see that this is not the case. Perhaps the candidate, who is not secret to anyone in this Chamber, or to those who are members of the Budget Committee, is clear that Mr. Radev is most likely the new President of BNB and we are just presently attending one already from a long-standing match. After making a tour de Parliament from room to room, talked with the individual parliamentary groups, provided already political support, in the morning we already saw the next level of political support where it went: If you tell me that this is a definition of a political independent body, as it is written, including in the values that the right-wing side of the House you have agreed to follow and follow as unimpeachably as the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Treaty on Accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union, including the criteria of the European Central Bank for the Independence of National Banks and the inquiries to the European Central Bank; or how will you maintain high authority when one of the candidates for a governor of the BNB had press publications, it is Mr. Vazov that he is a member of the Mason Lodge? You understand that such addictions, in themselves, are not good for the country. These arrangements that have been made in the dark and are currently trying to enlighten them, some people, including cashing them out, or some parliamentary groups, are not talking about anything good. If you think you can turn the Bulgarian National Bank into no longer a branch, you are wrong. In some of the statements and strategies expressed by the candidates, it was clear that we continue to hold BNB as a branch of another bank. It is the saying that we are walking towards the Eurozone that is confirming these words. Bulgaria's entry into the Eurozone means one thing: BNB, which you know it to the other building of the National Assembly, becomes just a branch of the European Central Bank, but by the name of the Bulgarian National Bank, and can participate in the decision making. We won't have our own monetary policy, which we don't now. Each one of the candidates talked about how good it was. Let's go back 18 years. Perhaps the right side of the room would say that if it wasn't for the currency board, we would have sunk; and the left side would say that we didn't, we might have surfaced. And I can give you great arguments for that. Russia did not accept the IMF's terms in 1998, did not join a currency board. You are currently seeing what level Russia is at. Including some of our neighbour's favorite Turkey, 2001, did not accept IMF conditions. Do you think Turkey is a poor country right now? Iceland, 2012, all economic, financial experts announced how this is the biggest collapse of the Western economy and how it will never come to life. Two years later in 2014, this is one of the most successful countries in the world, with the largest growth. What do we do to end this colonial slavery that we have caused ourselves under the dictation of external factors? ▪ Instead of putting an end to it, we continue to do so. How do we keep doing this? Joseph Stiglitz, a Nobel laureate, had said a long time ago, being an IMF member, I would quote from memory that IMF officials are some people with large salaries who go to certain countries, providing some reports that only lead to robbing a country. This thing we will observe in the future years in Greece, we have also observed it in us for 18 years. Eighteen years we only had the stick, but not the carrot. Nothing more. Right now you want this thing to keep it chinically, apparently backstage. I'll also make a question, he's the most normal question. Every candidate should come out and say who he's working with. Will he listen to the one who chose him, that is, GERB, the Reformation Block, the Patriotic Front, will he listen to those who chose him? And those people who were dropped on him, is he going to hire them? If they are appointed, you better give BNB to become a directorate in the National Assembly and make our decisions here, instead of having a separate building, to have a governor with tens of thousands of left-handed salary, state. Because Bulgaria really needs changes. There is no need for empty speaking in both this House and the Budget Committee, as well as in various other places. Once again, the question will remain open... each of the candidates talks about how much reform is needed in the Bank's supervision.................. but none of the candidates are willing to say who will be the one to take over the Bank's supervision. And I am sure that the groups here in the central part of the hall and in the right part of the hall are also not hired to place a person who will be for the supervision of the Bank, for the simple reason that this is the place, which is the so-called Hot potato, and you are very clear. Therefore, I will ask the four candidates to come here and very clearly state who will be his superiors, whom he will propose if he is elected. If it is not for these government officials, would he be so kind as to resign and actually show transparency and independence to the institution, not succumb to political pressure as we have been accustomed to seeing in recent years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u65	Any lines to Mr. Alexandrov? I won't. Do other MPs wish to participate in the discussion? I can't see. Now candidates in alphabetical order of personal names have a legal option, not an obligation, if they wish to answer questions raised by the speakers who have been involved in the debate so far. If you wish, give me a sign. It's not right to point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u66	Dear Madam President, honourable gentlemen of Parliament! I am Bisser Manolov, and I think a lot of the questions that have been addressed to us can be summarized. I just want to say that no matter who will be the next Governor of the Central Bank, he must assess the quality of the assets and stress test of the banking system. This is on the recommendation of the European Commission. But what happens next? In my presentation, I am adamant that it should follow an immediate application to the One European Supervisory Mechanism. This is a guarantee to me that in our system we will make imports of reputation. Also regarding Mr. Dimitrov's question of belonging to the State Security, my answer is: no, absolutely. [[Applause from RB.]] Also, regarding the question of belonging to foreign services, my answer is: absolutely not. What must be done to prevent a repeat of the 2014 banking crisis? I think this firm response to membership of the single supervisory mechanism is most accurate. Mr. Enchev's question whether the remuneration of the Governing Council of the Central Bank should be public, I think so. More specifically, yes. That's my answer. Whether wages should be reduced.. I really have no idea what the amount of wages is. Regarding Mr. Kadiev's question: in my team I do not foresee members of the old Board of Directors to be included. I hereby grant such guarantees based on my 25-year experience as a financier. Other questions I don't think so far. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u67	Thank you, Mr. Manolov. [[Applause from RB.]] Are there any other people? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u68	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'll use the same approach. Since there were nine MPs who asked different questions, I will try to summarize them and answer them briefly. The easiest thing for me is the first question: I have never had any relations with either Bulgarian or foreign security services. I can absolutely say that. The second question, which caused perhaps the greatest interest, is for the future team. It is a complex issue, since you understand that there is no way that a person who is not a favorite in a competition can offer such candidates.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u69	Only the chosen manager can offer such.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u70	That's right. What I can clearly say is that right now, if I am elected, I will immediately announce them either here or to the journalists. I have the names on me, but I can't say anymore at this point. In terms of remuneration. I agree with the part that they should be public. There's no reason to be secret. I don't see any legal grounds for that either. Whether the mechanism for their determination should be seen rather. I believe that this mechanism is fair to see the amount of wages in the banking system, as the central banker is ultimately responsible for the whole system, which must be properly rewarded. On the question of how confidence in BNB can be restored as quickly as possible. Naturally, the answer goes through banking supervision, as I have already had the opportunity to say that an institution is as strong as its weakest unit, in this case it is about banking supervision. I have a number of suggestions, I said them during the hearing. They pass first of all on the basis that the checks of banks must be frequent, there must be a clear link between remote and on-the-spot surveillance, there must be good communication of the results of the checks, something that we lack. There must be more clarity and BNB here owes. Different indicators and different data are published, but unfortunately the financial literacy of the population is not high enough and people find it difficult to interpret. In other words, you have to translate these figures in some appropriate way and these indicators, which are strictly technical to know what is behind them, what is the real state. With regard to the asset review and subsequent stress consequences: categorically yes. In the shortest possible time, although this will probably take about a year, if not more, we must move towards our inclusion in the Banking Union.. The most important element of this Banking Union is the Single Supervisory Mechanism. I will do my best if I am elected, that this process be as short as possible. I think I've run out of basic questions with this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u71	Thank you very much. Would any of the candidates like to take a stand? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will be very brief and will answer only the most important and serious questions that have been asked for me personally. The first question of belonging to State Security. So far, on my biography, I've been tested by two committees on four occasions. All four negatives came back. It's both as deputy minister and as head of bank and as rector and dean. Given my biography and my past, I think things are clear. All this also proves what my opinion is regarding the interference that I would allow or would not allow in the Bulgarian National Bank. It's clear. But what I want to say to you right now, understand that I am excited: even the candidates for governors of the Bulgarian National Bank we also have some honor and some dignity. What is happening in this House right now, ladies and gentlemen, is somehow not what I imagined. We are here people with biography, people with opportunities, with capacity and answering here one or two questions about what the salary would be like or what you are, or what you are, will determine the opinion of a member of parliament to vote for me, especially the last one hour and what was going on in the gym and outside the hall was personal humiliation for me. Thank you for your attention. Good job! [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u73	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will answer the questions that have been asked. There was a question about the proposals for the government. My first assignment, if I were elected governor, would be to submit the nominations to the government. That could happen tomorrow morning. As regards belonging to State Security: no. Measures to prevent the case CTB.. I think this was the subject of a discussion within the Budget Committee and before that. The plan I proposed included three groups of measures. The first is related to reforming Bank supervision. The second relates to the introduction of a mechanism for solving problems in the banking sector. The third, of course, is an assessment of the financial situation of our banks with a focus on the quality of their assets. Membership in the Unified Banking Union, no doubt, yes. The question is about the concrete steps how to do this. I also had the opportunity to discuss this issue several times. The position is clear. After all, the decision of this issue, which is political and economic, is taken by the government and the National Assembly in the part that requires legislative support. BNB will participate very actively in this process by sticking to two principles. We will strive to have an optimal balance between the rights and responsibilities we assume. The second principle, of course, will be to make it clear what access we will have to support the stabilisation mechanism if it comes to capital support or liquidity support from the European Central Bank. There was a matter of wages. I don't know. I think it's a mistrial. I don't know what the paycheck is. I've received indications that my salary will be much lower than the one I'm getting right now or which I've been getting until recently. This issue will, of course, be discussed with the Governing Council. I will adhere strictly to the criteria that apply within the European Central Bank and in the system of European banks, as well as to the publicity of this issue and the approach for the amounts of payment in the Governing Council and in the Bulgarian National Bank as a whole. I will report on this issue if I am elected when the budget of the Bulgarian National Bank for 2016. It's a political addiction. The guarantees are in the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. The guarantees are also in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. You know that they provide strong guarantees for political independence of the Bulgarian National Bank. The question is how the Law is respected and how the Treaty is respected. I intend to do them very strictly. I think those were the main questions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u75	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u77	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Are there any MPs who would like to share more before I close the debate? I can't see. The debate is closed. I invite the MPs to the plenary!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u78	Can I have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u79	Mr. Mikov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u80	Thank you. Dear Madam President, I suggest that you give a break after the hearing or at your initiative, if not at our initiative. We would like to discuss our vote in the next phase in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u81	I take it on behalf of a parliamentary group you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u82	If you do not want, if the other groups know how to vote, we want to discuss once again after the hearing our position.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u83	How many minutes do you need, Mr. Mikov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u84	Half an hour, 20 minutes, we'll try to finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u85	Five minutes, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u86	Okay, maybe five minutes. [[Noise and lines.]] Give half an hour rest, and we're going to rest time for two hours already, let's all groups in half an hour...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u87	It's 12.47.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u89	Break's at 1:15. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u90	Please invite the colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria [[The Parliamentary Group of BSP LB enters the Chamber.]] Guys, let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Break time's up. Let's move on to the vote. Under the Rules of Procedure, where there are more candidates than one, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names. Project! DECISION on the election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 12, para. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Biser Stoyanov Manolov as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank for a term of 6 years. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of the election. Voting mode. They voted 173 MPs: 37, against 18, abstention 118. Project! DECISION on the election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 12, para. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Viktor Ivanov Yotsov as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank for a term of 6 years. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of the election. Voting mode. They voted 170 MPs: 44, against 22, abstention 104. The offer is not accepted. "Project" DECISION on the election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 12, para. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Grigory Tsvetanov Vazov as Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank for a term of 6 years. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of the election. Voting mode. They voted 171 MPs: 43, against 12, abstention 116. The offer is not accepted. "Project" DECISION on the election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 12, para. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Dimitar Borisov Radev as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank for a term of 6 years. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of the election. We vote. Vote 180 MPs: 130 against 16, abstention 34. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] Once we have a decision with the elected governor of the Bulgarian National Bank and in relation to Mr. Iskrov's resignation, I suggest to your attention the following draft of ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the release of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank The National Assembly, on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 12, para. 7 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank HAS DECIDED 1. He released Ivan Ganchev Iskrov from the office of Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of the election. This is the draft decision on the report of the Budget Committee. Editorially, I suggest. The decision shall enter into force on the day of the adoption of this Decision, as there is no way, it is an independent decision to bind itself to the previous decision on the choice. I put to the vote the decision to release the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, edited by e.g. 2: "2." This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of the adoption of the Decision. Please vote. Vote 174 MPs: for 174, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause from RB.]] The decision has been adopted unanimously. Mr. Radev, come in for an oath. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u91	I vow, in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria, to respect the laws of the country, to assist in carrying out the functions entrusted to the Bulgarian National Bank, as well as to protect the professional, banking, commercial or other legally protected secret, including after my powers have ceased. I swore!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u92	Congratulations! [[Applause.]] Moving on to point two: FIRST READING THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE ENERGY LAW. A report came in from the Energy Commission. Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u93	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 554-01-124, submitted by Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov on 7 July 2015. At its regular meeting held on 8 July 2015, the Energy Commission, together with the Monitoring Commission of the activities of the SEWRC, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 554-01-124, submitted on 7 July 2015 by Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The meeting of the committee was attended by: Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova Minister, Mr. Nikolay Nikolov Deputy Minister, Mrs. Miroslava Hristova Director of Legal and Water Regulatory Department; Mr. Bozidar Lukarski Minister; Mr. Jacquelen Koen Executive Director; Mr. Ivanov Chairman, and Members Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova, Mrs. Svetla Todorova, Mrs. Alexander Yordanov and Mrs. Dimitar Kochov. The bill was presented by Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, expressing the reasons for the need to adopt it. The project proposes texts that develop the reform in the sector of the...... in order to achieve a balance of the entire electricity system, which will help to introduce the full liberalisation of the energy market. It is proposed that a mechanism to compensate for the non-recoverable costs and costs of public liabilities should also be included in the transmission network operator and electricity distribution network operators. The Energy Act defines two groups of costs which should be compensated by final customers, namely: non-recoverable costs under art. 34 of the Energy and Expenditure Act under art. 35 arising from obligations imposed on society. The proposed amendment overcomes the existing gap in the Law and creates greater clarity with regard to the entities that should participate in compensation of the costs under art. Article 34 35 of the Energy Act. New texts shall be introduced in Chapter Three, Section IV The creation of the Energy System Security Fund is a measure aimed at the financial stabilisation of the sector by reducing the current deficit in the National Electricity Company. Achievement of this goal will create conditions for liberalization of the Bulgarian electricity market. With the proposed amendment in art. 31, para. 5 of the Renewable Energy Act replaces the concept of the annual average duration of the work with the net specific production of electricity and which creates conditions at preferential prices to buy only the quantities of electricity that provide revenues to producers from renewable sources corresponding to the fixed rate of return at the established preferential prices with the relevant Commission decisions on energy and water regulation. The amendments provide that the quantities of electricity exceeding the quantities providing revenue to producers from renewable sources corresponding to the price-setting elements set at the preferential prices are to be purchased by the public supplier at a price for surplus on the balancing market. In this way, a balance will be reached between the interests of the public supplier and producers in relation to the quantities of electricity providing income above those guaranteed by preferential prices. A new provision of art. 32a of the Renewable Energy Act, which regulates the way in which the results of the control powers of the bodies of the State Financial Inspection Agency have an impact on the established preferential prices. The method of recovery shall be laid down by producers of the additional revenue resulting from the preferential prices applied for the period until an individual preferential price has been fixed. It is envisaged that by 31 July 2015, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will adopt a decision establishing the net specific production of electricity on the basis of which preferential prices have been set in the relevant KEWRC decisions. The Committee of Energy with 10 votes......................... 2 votes against................................................................................. and 6 votes against.............................................................................................................................................. He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt at first reading a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No554-01-124, submitted by Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov on 7 July 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Please fill us in on the report on the other bill as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u95	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law for Supplement to the Energy Act, No 554-01-124, submitted by Dimitar Tanev, Martin Dimitrov, Nayden Zelenogorski on 8 July 2015. At its regular meeting, held together with the Monitoring Commission of the activities of the SEWRC on 9 July 2015, the Energy Commission examined and discussed the Draft Law on Supplement to the Energy Act, No 554-01-124, submitted by Dimitar Tanev, Martin Dimitrov, Nayden Zelenogorski on 8 July 2015. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Energy: Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova Minister, Mr. Nikolay Nikolov Deputy Minister, Mrs. Miroslava Hristova Director of Legal and Water Regulatory Directorate; Mr. Bozidar Lukarski Minister; Mr. Jacquelen Koen Executive Director and the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation: Mr. Ivan Ivanov Chairman, and Members Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova, Mrs. Svetla Todorova, Mrs. Alexander Jordanov and Mr. Dimitar Kochkov. The bill supplementing the Energy Act was presented by importers, expressing the reasons for its submission. The proposal proposes measures to ensure the publicity of contracts of high public interest and measures to optimize the costs of commercial companies with 50% and more than 50% state or municipal participation operating under this Law. The bill does not provide for expenditure from the state budget and does not affect areas of the European Union's competence. The aim is to establish a legal obligation for electricity producers to declare the terms of the contracts under which electricity is purchased from them. The legislative change reflects the principle that a company that wants to benefit from the state guaranteed markets should also make a commitment to transparency to society. After the debates held the Energy Commission with 10 votes for........................................................................................................ and 8 votes................................................................................................................................................ He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, at first reading, a bill supplementing the Energy Act, No 554 01 126, submitted by Dimitar Tanev, Martin Dimitrov and Nayden Zelenogorski on 8 July 2015. Mr. Chairman, I note that both in this report and in the previous bill number is wrong. I read it correctly: Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u96	You read it correctly. Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. The report of the Committee for Monitoring the Activities of KEWRC will introduce us to the President of the Commission Iskren Veselinov. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Under the Law signed by Mr. Dobrev, Mr. Nikolov as importers, we all know that the importer is the Ministry of Energy. In my opinion, before we start discussing the Law, it is good for the Minister of Energy to be here, because perhaps he will take some bearing on the issues at issue. Otherwise, without fault, there will be here, in my view, in connection with the Law, without having the opportunity to give answers, provided that the importer is another I propose that the Minister of Energy be invited to our meeting here during the discussion of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u98	Thank you. Invite the Minister of Energy Mrs. Petkova without entering into a dispute about real and nominal importers. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 554-01-124, submitted by Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov on 7 July 2015. At a joint meeting with the Energy Commission on 9 July 2015, the Monitoring Commission of the KEWRC discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, Mrs. Nikolay Nikolov, Mrs. Miroslava Hristova; Mr. Bozidar Lukarski from the Ministry of Economy; Mr. Jacquelen Cohen, Executive Director; Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova, Mrs. Svetla Todorova and others. The bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act was presented by importers. The submitted proposal concerns two main aspects of the legal norms in the - the creation of the Fund of Electricity Security, and - the purchase of electricity produced by RES. The proposed bill aims to improve the financial situation in the system, stimulate the finding of reserves in companies, restore justice when buying electricity at preferential prices and prepare for the introduction of a liberalised market. The proposed bill was thus supported by the Ministry of Energy, the KEWRC and representatives of the nationally represented trade union and employers' organizations. In the subsequent discussion, representatives of the Patriotic Front supported the Bill in principle, stating the need between first and second readings to expand the scope of funding sources in the Fund. The representatives of BSP left Bulgaria did not support the bill by proposing its adoption to be postponed until the development of a new LID of the Energy Act after a thorough study of the legal environment. The representatives of the DPS did not support the Bill because it disrupts the balance between producers and consumers and introduces retroactive measures in terms of investment projects. The representatives of "Attack" supported the bill as necessary. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held. The results of the vote As a result of the discussion, the Committee for Monitoring the Activities of the KEWRC proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act, No 554-01-124, submitted by Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov on 7 July 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u100	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Please introduce us to the report on the other bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u101	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law for Supplement to the Energy Act, No 554-01-126, submitted by Dimitar Tanev, Martin Dimitrov and Nayden Zelenogorski on 8 July 2015. At a joint meeting with the Energy Commission, held on 9 July 2015, the KEWRC's activity monitoring committee discussed the bill supplementing the Energy Act. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, Mr. Nikolay Nikolov and Mrs. Miroslava Hristova; Mr. Bozidar Lukarski from the Ministry of Economy; Mr. Jacquelen Cohen from the Bulgarian Energy Forum; Mr. Ivanov from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova, Mrs. Svetla Todorova, Mr. Dimitar Kochkov and Mr. Alexander Yordanov. The bill supplementing the Energy Act was presented by importers. The proposed proposal proposes measures to ensure the publicity of contracts of high public interest and measures to optimize the costs of commercial companies with 50% and more than 50% State or municipal participation operating under this Law. The proposal aims to create a legal obligation for electricity producers to declare the terms of the contracts under which electricity is purchased from them. In the subsequent discussion was expressed principled support to ensure greater transparency in the sector. After the discussion was concluded, the results of which were:......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As a result of the discussion, the Committee for Monitoring the Activities of KEWRC proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Supplement to the Energy Act, No 554-01-126, submitted by Dimitar Tanev, Martin Dimitrov and Nayden Zelenogorski on 8 July 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u102	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. For an opinion from the importers? Mr. Martin Dimitrov. Mr. Ermenkov, Minister Petkova is on his way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, you so strongly requested an opinion from the importers that we felt that this was your step to wait for Minister Petkova. I will present briefly our Bill. Two main things we offer. The first is that in the Bill, whose author really is the Ministry of Energy and is jointly crafted so we were told at the last Energy Commission, at a meeting with the trade unions and the main employers' organizations, and only formally introduced by three colleagues from GERB has missed out on the very important reform of state energy. That is to say, at the meeting in question between the Ministry of Energy, trade unions and employers are discussed all kinds of reforms, but the issue of State-owned energy is missed out of the scope of the reform by chance or by accident. For this reason, my colleague Dimitar Tanev and I propose that the Ministry of Energy should draw up a regulation to be adopted with the Order of the Council of Ministers to propose a plan to optimize the costs of state energy and that it be an enterprise by enterprise, and for each year to have a clear concept of what is being done, what should be done and, accordingly, the MPs to be able at the end of the year to ask if this plan is implemented, is it not implemented? We know that there is an attempt to leave state energy outside the scope of reforms in the sense of what costs they spend to stay. They were watering flowers for 3 million. BGN, of course, to water them again for 3 million. Why? Because it was state energy. There shouldn't be any interference there. And the truth is that there should be the same optimization that we are trying to do in other sectors, that is, the same reforms as in other sectors. It is not fair to reform energy without state energy. We have seen that there are a number of people in state energy who receive higher salaries than the prime minister and the president, hundreds of people who receive higher salaries than the prime minister and the president. Sometimes this is justified when it comes to nuclear specialists. We think it's the right thing to do. But there are other cases where this is far unjustified and the result of a lack of clear vision, a clear policy over the years of the Ministry of Energy. So here reform must be made! We want to entrust this responsibility to the Minister of Energy to adopt a regulation with specific commitments, which we should monitor. That's one we're offering. The other important thing we propose is to make it clear who the owners are, what contracts they enter into, who signed the contracts, when they made them. We're sick and tired of speculation about energy. Who had what, who didn't have what. It is high time for the contracts to be public, for every journalist to see them, to see who is the owner of the RES, of the plant plants, of the TPPs. If they're some kind of set-up, journalists can track them down, how far it goes, who these people are, what they do to be responsible. That is, in a regulated sector, it is very important to have transparent ownership. Who are these people who own these assets? If the sector had not been of state regulated prices, then ownership would not have been so important. Once there is a government regulator that sets these prices in the sector and especially for RES, which are higher than the market because of European policy recognised by us, we want to know who the real owners are, who these people are and they have their responsibility at every stage. These are our two main proposals. I thank the two parliamentary committees and the fellow Members who supported them. I am convinced that those of you who want real energy reform and insist on transparency and accountability will support our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. On the other bill? You will not take advantage of your right to an opinion. You have the floor for speeches on both bills. Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u105	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The position of the party has long been that this repeatedly mended, corrected and amended Energy Act must be replaced by a new law. Our country needs a new Energy Act. If you open the Law, you can see how many times the Law has been corrected at 10-15 times a year so that in the corresponding periods its texts can be adjusted to the interests of different lobby groups here in this building. However, the spirit of the Law is a spirit directed against consumers. It protects private interest, protects foreign interests, but not the interests of consumers. It shall not act against the abuse of a monopoly position, as required by art. 19 of the Constitution. Until a new Energy Act is developed and adopted, we will have to work on this. In this regard, as regards the amendments that have been tabled for which way from the Reformation Block this time in this term, I can say the following. Yes, it is a good thing that you in 2015 finally wished to shine the sun on property in energy, to have transparency on ownership and on contracts. This is very positive progress because I remember a time when you were managing energy, selling it for pennies and there was no transparency. The Bulgarian society had to fight to find out after 15 years what you had agreed for the Americans, for example. This requirement, of course, is trivial. There is no law in Bulgaria that says that the owners have the right to hide from the spotlight of public attention and public control. But we're ready to support him, though trivial. We are strongly opposed to the other amendment, with which you aim not otherwise, but to sell the few remaining assets of state-owned enterprises in energy. One thing Grandma knows, one thing. You learned during Kostov's time to sell and embezzle what others have built, and you cannot give up this habit. The problems of Bulgarian energy will not be solved if under cost optimization people are fired with a salary of 3,000. The rest stations and the social base of the NPP of Kozloduy are sold out to the TPP of Maritsa East 2 and those several blocks built for the specialists who had to work at the NPP of Belene. NEK's deficit is over 3.5 billion. Both 20 and 30 and 40 million to profit from these sales, and I doubt that your hoops from companies will pay that much money for what was built at the nuclear power plant - Kozloduy and the TPP - Maritsa East - as a social base, but even market money to sell them - is a drop in the sea. Thus, the issue of the technical bankruptcy of NEK cannot be solved because this technical bankruptcy is due to long-term contracts for the purchase of energy, for availability at preferential prices. And until we put our finger in the wound until we end these corruption contracts, NEK will always be bankrupt. I'll give you an example. Unclear how, in the otherwise yearning for transparency in energy, MPs and their majority, two small power stations here, above Sofia, stunt The Electrics de France! That's it, gentlemen, French Neck! A huge company with revenue between 65 and 67 billion. Euros. Go to the hydroelectric power station and you will see the logo of the Electrics de France. And the poor little, broke Bulgarian NEK pays between 5 million and 7 million each year to that giant - the Electrics de France. The Bulgarian NEK pays the French NEK 2.5-3 million. EUR for availability. Why wouldn't NEK go bankrupt? No, we're not gonna solve the sale of something other people built! Do what you need to do to curb your appetites, Mr. Dimitrov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. - What's the line? I won't. For speech there is the word of the people representative Kiril Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u107	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Today we are discussing a proposal for amendments to the Energy Act for the fifth time since the beginning of the year. To adopt five amendments in seven months to an important sector law, such as energy, does not sound pleasant against the backdrop of the repeated ones, including from this tribune, requests for the need to stabilise Bulgarian energy, the introduction of transparency, consistency and predictability in the actions of the government, the regulator, and the legislator. This suggests that changes are made fragmented, hasty and to achieve individual, sometimes short-term goals and not to solve the severe problems in energy. The reasons for the bill are that the proposed texts develop the reform of the sector................... in order to achieve the balance of the entire electricity system........................................................................... It would be good to really achieve this balance, but from the way the changes are made, a number of questions arise. After the government held meetings with some of the business, trade unions and employers, the Energy Minister announced that the energy crisis is about to be contained. A package of measures was reported and the proposed changes to the Energy Act and the Renewable Energy Act were described. It was not the government, but a group of GERB MPs brought in the reasons and the Bill, even though we were convinced that we were convinced that the Council of Ministers was the importer. Why? Apparently, to buy time. Are the opinions of the other interested ministries and departments clear? Does the Council of Ministers fully support the changes we are dealing with? Do we have a firm legal opinion that the proposed texts do not contradict the spirit of these and other Bulgarian laws or European Union legislation? Can we give back to regulations or accept such postfactum, or retroactive? Whatever we call it, if we adopt texts with similar effect, this act will hardly benefit legal certainty and investment activity of any energy company. Do we have, in general, an impact assessment in the form of economic justification and an estimate of the effectiveness of the new fund and of the impact of the proposed changes in final prices for business and population? What are the estimates of the Ministry of Energy and will the tariff deficit in the public supplier be overcome during the remaining period of the preferential prices through the mechanisms of the fund? What are the Commission's forecasts for energy and water regulation? After much of the deficits in the National Electricity Company are due to short-sighted political decisions, incompetence management and restrictive regulatory policy, how fair is it that these deficits in the company are reduced by reducing the revenues of other electricity undertakings? There are still many principled and general and specific questions that arise. And without mentioning them it becomes clear one thing: not from yesterday and not from the beginning of this National Assembly, and the government he elected eight months ago, it is known that the introduction of full liberalisation of the energy market and its integration into the common European energy market; that it is necessary to develop a new market model in order to have competitive and working markets wholesale, retail, capacity and balancing market; that this also means the need for a new price model and leads to a legitimate rise in prices. It is known about the cash imbalances in the National Electricity Company and the inter-company debt, the heavy deficits.. and financial, and the one caused by the physical depreciation of the assets throughout the electricity system; it is also known that energy is a heavy, inert system in which no rapid changes occur. However, we expect that the problems will be resolved by making changes to the Energy Act every month and wasting time in debates repeating the same findings. This would hardly have happened if we had a clear vision, an energy action programme in the short term for two or three years, as part of a long-term strategy proposed by the government and adopted by consensus by all political forces; if we had a Programme to optimize the costs and financial recovery of the sector, to introduce a new market and new price model, to introduce incentives for replacement and new investments in the network, to save energy, for new mechanisms to promote the production of energy from renewable energy sources and other clean industries, not least for a new approach to solving the problem of energy poor households, and on the basis of this consensus programme, we would have prepared and needed legislative changes to be discussed and adopted in a package, not a piece. By the way, according to art. 3 of the Energy Act, I quote: The National Assembly adopts the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, which defines the main objectives, stages, funds and methods for energy development. The Council of Ministers directs the country's energy in line with the Energy Strategy adopted by the National Assembly. These days, all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly received from the Minister of Energy a set of documents, including the Energy Strategy Project prepared in implementation of the Decision of the Forty-second National Assembly of 4 September 2013 with a request for opinion and evaluation of the Strategy drawn up a year and three months ago. I will allow myself to quote part of what Minister Petkova said in response to a question on 13 February this year. Quoting: The Strategy was not provided for an opinion in the specialized administration of the then Ministry of Economy and Energy, as well as its publication for public discussion was not awarded, end of quote. No environmental assessment has been awarded in order to comply with the requirements of art. 81 of the Environmental Protection Act. I would add that it is clearly not considered by the administration and the new existing since November 2015. The Ministry of Energy has not made an impact assessment, has not been discussed in the Council of Ministers, but is presented for evaluation by the parliamentary parties. At the same time, two weeks ago, a task force has been appointed within a deadline, notice that one year by the end of June 2016, it will prepare an update of the Strategy adopted by the National Assembly in 2011 to extend it to 2030, with a horizon up to 2050. I am confused and, to put it mildly, embarrassed by the proposal to analyse and evaluate a strategy on which the portfolio Ministry of Energy does not share its opinion, but informs that it will work on an updated version which the Council of Ministers will most likely submit to Parliament not earlier than 2017, provided that no one has cancelled the National Assembly Decision of 4 September 2013. If this is the pace of work, if this is the quality of the implementation of the decisions at the highest level, if this is the administrative capacity with which we will conduct the state policy in energy, with pain, honourable Members, I will share that I am not optimistic about the future of the energy of the Republic of Bulgaria. As for the current amendments to the Energy Act and the Renewable Energy Act, although there are controversial texts and worrying amendments, I did not support the Commission. I was abstentioned. Now the ABB Group will support at first reading in order to give the opportunity to stop restrictive regulatory policy and continue the process of seeking reserves, optimization of expenditure and attracting financial resources to solve current problems and introduce a liberalised market. Despite the short time for analysis and discussion, we demand to hear the views of all the stakeholders involved in the energy market, producers, traders, transmission and distribution network operators and so on. As a result, we will initiate the submission of remarks and concrete proposals on the texts discussed between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsochev. Dear colleagues, do you have any lines for the speech of the MP Kiril Tsochev? I won't. To make a speech there is the national representative Valeri Simeonov and after him Georgi Nedev from the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, in my main speech, I will still mark some things that I personally, I hope my colleagues in the group of the Patriotic Front will not accept from the principled opinions of those who have spoken under the Law. On the one hand, on Mr. Dimitrov's bill, we have some disagreements. With regard to the specific statement, Mr. Dimitrov should not speculate with these flowers. It was explained to us that it was not about 3 million for flowers, but it was about mowing some very large grasses that are located near the canal and so on. Things you shouldn't be speculating on. You know that this will be part of the group of undesirable analyses and interpretations in the media. You know that's what they're waiting for. So it's not exactly what you said. Secondly, in terms of the savings programme. I don't think we should be focusing on such attractive details. There are far more serious savings opportunities. Ms. Tasheva tried to deform a little in her speech, tried to transform it almost as an attack on the rights won by trade unions and workers. No, you have to act in every direction. Indeed, state-owned companies have reserves in both TPP Maritsa East 2 and NPP Kozloduy. But to make everyone in this room aware and beyond, the main abuses there are in the direction of public procurement. That's where it needs to be touched. I will here express a disagreement with your proposal to make a special regulation by the Ministry of Energy in which to bet these basic sympathies, as far as you have put them, in the direction of savings in state enterprises. I think that this is an obligation of business management, not subject to a separate specific regulation. Because the search for the most advantageous offer, the finding, the setting of the most appropriate contractor in terms of price and time, this is the business management's work and cannot be regulated in a separate regulation. The fact that workers in these enterprises use the weekend bases for which the State pays 40 million, or if they do not use them to be sold, cannot also be a question of a separate regulation. I suppose you'd agree with me. In other words, let us maintain the right to administrative guidance and, accordingly, the executive power to take action. It's enough with you and me, Mr. Dimitrov, with the stable, I'm sure, serious support of Mrs. Tasheva, and we want this thing. I think you'll agree. I will also express my support for the main text of your Bill a little backwards, as a second number, but we will support it absolutely. It is a good proposal for the transparency of contracts, in view of all these back-to-back deals that have been pulling and dipping our energy. So you will get support at first reading. Perhaps in detail we can make some additional suggestions. Regarding the basic bill submitted by colleagues from GERB or the Ministry of Energy. It is not so important by whom it is imported, what is important is that these are proposals in the right direction. I would disagree with one who spoke before me, who raised the issue a little bit as a general philosophical, party, little as a reporting report put the issue of energy large-scale, hardly a common strategy, there was no coordination in all the details. I apologize, however, the condition in which our energy is located does not imply and does not give us any time to breathe. We have already a postponed decision by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC) to raise prices and I cannot accept in any way that we must enter deep analyses and not work in a piece. We'll work as the weather dictates. If you need a piece, if you need a millimeter, because just the dog has to jump according to the stick, and the stick is thick and is already waving threateningly over the heads of the users. So you have to act. The bill is good, we will generally support it, but we have a few serious remarks regarding philosophy. I'm moving on to the essentials now. The proposals in § 1 are the subject of the Law on Legislative Acts. We will now comment on this in detail during the second discussion. In principle, I would suggest, as I did to importers and the Commission, that they consider the exemption of producers from the 5% contribution to those producers operating below the public supplier's prices. That's what I'd suggest. This is not only our proposal, but also the National Electricity Company, which also had some other substantial and meaningful proposals. I advise Mrs. Petkova to pay attention to them. Let us also discuss even more carefully the issue of the so-called "net specific production"................................................................................................... should be replaced by................................................................................................................................................ We should also take advantage of the current amendment of the Energy Act by inserting texts, Mrs. Petkova, related to the monthly reporting of the so-called high efficient production, which, you know, despite the changes of the Law that we made at the beginning of the year, there was an attempt to replace texts and the will of the MPs by replacing some points in the regulation, then by decision of the regulator. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, not everything that is decided in this House is being realized. Sometimes the legal texts remain in the field of good will, as regulations can change them. In this direction, we must act together with the executive, with the Ministry, with the energy companies and the government, and opposition, because, as I said, the stick is fat and the dog has nowhere to go but to jump. We're gonna jump, that's the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u111	Dear colleagues! Mr. Simeonov, you, unlike some of the previous people, had serious questions, so you will be answered. When you ask unserious questions, there's no point in answering them. Your parents were serious. The same lawn can be mowed and is mowed for 800 thousand, initially mowed for 3 million. lv. Now this is an example of optimization. Here several colleagues joked that for 3 million and they wanted to mow it. This is how state energy optimization is done. However, for all these years, no state enterprise, except for the short term of colleague Delyan Dobrev, while he was Minister of Energy, does not optimize and does not reduce costs. The manager himself doesn't have that kind of incentive. Do you understand? They do not have incentives to reduce any state expenditure. On the contrary, they are constantly trying to grow them. And if there's no regulation, if the Minister doesn't go to do this, Mr. Simeonov, nothing will happen. Mark my words! It's not gonna work! Because the respective head of a state enterprise on the contrary has incentives to spend more and more, to hire more and more employees. If he starts optimizing expenses, he'll have problems. He's gonna get a call from these politicians, those politicians, these offices, those offices. Nobody's going to do that. Mark my words! I would ask you: until now, if you will in the current term, state enterprises, if you want NEK, what optimizations have they done? Are there serious cost optimizations? There won't be any! Except small ones. In order for there to be a general change in the picture, it must come from a regulation by the Minister of Energy, which we all stand behind, to support such an optimization of state spending. Otherwise, if you look at the overall picture, you see that nothing is happening. State enterprises in Bulgaria in all spheres, not only energy, 90% are at a loss. Maybe more, but 90% sure. Ninety percent of the state-owned enterprises in Bulgaria are at a loss. Why? They have no incentive for most of them, their guides to do something, improve collection, cut costs. They don't have those incentives.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Second line.. People's representative Kiril Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Simeonov, in the same way you tried to provoke me in the Commission. I will give you what I read from the stands of the National Assembly, and since you clearly do not understand anything about energy, you have not understood the essence and philosophy of what I have announced and said here, from the stands of the National Assembly. Rather, I would appeal to you, the interim committee in question, which was initiated and at the idea of the ABB and which here you headed in the National Assembly, let us finally see at least a temporary report on what is being done, because that was where the key was to start from the state of energy, in order to help the Ministry of Energy with a neutral view and with the eyes of the National Assembly and from then on to go and make the package of measures in the energy sector, which are very important and responsible. That is why I am asking you: instead of saying that we are at a party meeting, I am not a party member, you know, and, secondly, I do not like party discussions. You will never hear from me nor provoke any colleague in this room nor behave strangely as other colleagues in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u114	Thank you, Mr. Tsochev. Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Simeonov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Regarding Mr. Dimitrov's line, we remain in different positions. Perhaps Mrs. Petkova, if she is willing to speak on this issue, should she explain to us whether a regulation should be made or whether leaders who are not doing their job or who are harming the state should be fired. However, I think that all this cannot be described in a regulation. I will repeat what I said in my first speech. Very often, legal documents remain one wish because they are simply not implemented, whether they are laws or regulations. Regarding the qualification of Mr. Tsochev. I won't argue, you have an opinion on your qualifications, on my qualifications. That's what you think. That's what you say. You may have your reasons for this, but I still don't think this tribune is a place for such general statements as we heard when you first came out here. With all due respect to the strategy that you have created and so on, but indeed we are currently in such a phase of solving the severe problems in energy, accumulated by maybe 5 years already, that we do not have time for a large-scale investigation and so on. From this point of view, I express the position of the Patriotic Front that we will support at first reading and try to make substantial supplements in the discussion at second reading. If I can make a comparison, for example, when we have a crisis situation, the banal example of a fire, is not the time to sit down and describe a fire-fighting methodology, but we should, with everything we have at hand, act, react, because, again, time is running out and we should set another unwarranted increase in the price of electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. For the next speech there is the national representative Georgi Nedev "Bulgarian Democratic Center."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will take account of the bill submitted by Mr. Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs, according to the reasons of which the fund is planned to be created.. Security of the gas system................................... the purpose of the sector to be stabilized financially by reducing the current deficit in the National Electricity Company. Perhaps there is no person here who is not convinced that this is necessary, that the electricity system must stabilize, but is it by means that treat the bill? Our understanding has always been that it is right for the burden of overcoming the deficit in the system to be borne by all participants in the process of production, transmission, distribution, electricity consumption, and not only by producers, as each participant in the process has contributed to the formation of this deficit. In this order of thought we have no explanation why the fund should not make contributions and electricity distribution companies, for example? In this regard, it is logical to consider an option in which, instead of producers making 5% contributions, all participants should contribute, for example, 0,5%. We believe that importers fail to consider the issue further in three aspects. The first, the emerging monetary deficit and commuted losses from the licensing activity of the public supplier NEK. If a regulation of this fund is adopted, it must be made clear that NEK as a producer will be obliged to contribute to it, i.e. to itself. Hence, there is a reduction in compensation losses. Secondly, the question of the payment of contributions by the NPP of Kozloduy and the TPP of Maritsa East 2 and here the state will pay itself, and if this legislative misunderstanding is admitted, the Law must provide clear guarantees that they will pay as well. Third, cash deficit and commuted losses resulting from off-balance sheet assets of NEK, NPP If the bill enters into force in this form, importers in it will not know exactly what these percentages of their revenues are paying for, and they will also go to compensate for other losses of the public supplier, which are caused, for example, by market and capital operations. The latter must be excluded from compensation because they are not related to the activity of public supply. Especially for high-efficiency electricity production. This will be a second retroactive measure within a year. Once because we limited their production through the KEWRC's forecasts and, a second time because they will be supported by revenues that form part of their regulated working capital. The main question that arises is: will the contributions to the fund be recognised, no matter how much they will be, for the costs of the regulated undertakings each year and respectively included in their prices? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36c, para. 3 of the Bill is written that they are recognised for current expenditure for tax purposes, but not for regulatory purposes. The opposition of importers on this issue is not clear. If the answer to this question is..... which is unlikely................................................................................................. Because, if it is not explicitly written down, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has no legal basis to accept contributions to the qualifying expenditure fund. If the answer is no, because the contributions are defined in the Bill as public government claims, two serious issues arise. The first, whether the use of these funds for monthly coverage of the costs of the public supplier arising from obligations under art. 93a of the Energy Act does not conflict with other members of the Law? Our answer In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 of the Energy Act, one of the principles governing the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, is a fair transfer of costs from preferential prices to final customers of electricity. Analogical provisions are also in the Regulation on the regulation of electricity price regulation. The question arises: who will pay the costs in question to the NEK producers or end-users? If it is taken into account that the price for a debt to society paid by final customers will only include the difference between NEK's costs and contributions to the Fund, this should be recorded in the Law. In addition to those costs, funds from the Fund will be used for business-related maintenance. This recording, we believe, is extremely dangerous. The regulator has approved the costs of the National Electricity Company for the activity. Now these costs will be repaid by the Fund in what amount, and are they not put into a law money in a state-owned company, which is at the expense of all producers in Bulgaria? The reasoning made so far leads to another fundamental question: are not the contributions of producers to the fund that will be spent on the activities of NEC, inadmissible State aid? In our view, this is State aid for all elements, since, firstly, the Fund is granted by the State, precisely through law; secondly, at the expense of State resources, because they are public government claims; thirdly, through other persons, the Fund whose funds and operations belong to other economic entities; fourthly, this threatens to distort the free competition by favouring a particular undertaking which is NEC, which is a public supplier but also a producer of electricity from hydropower. The rule of law and the rule of law would not allow the provision of liquidity to a commercial company with technical bankruptcy at the expense of the hidden holding of private-owned market sections of capital. Probably a basis will be established for cases against the state for which it will have to pay benefits. The bill, of course, aims to help overcome the NEK deficit, which has been accumulated in past periods. However, the means to achieve this goal are insufficiently thought out, in our view, and could lead to even greater distortions in the sector. One more very important thing. The contribution under art. 36c of the project is not consistent with real revenue but with monthly revenue from sold electricity. Notice, this electricity may not be paid. The contributions need to be linked to actual revenue from the sale of electricity or transmission services. Finally, but not least, § 6 of the proposed bill legitimises the public supplier's right to purchase electricity at freely agreed prices. This is contrary to art. 40, para. 6 of the Law and leads to unacceptable mixing of licensing activities by the public supplier. Dear colleagues, it has become clear that the bill in this form will be adopted at first reading. We believe that, in its proposed form, it is controversial and needs a serious revision of second reading, for which we will make our concrete proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u118	Thank you, dear Mr Nedev. - What's the line? I won't. Now for a speech at the request of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria has the word of the people representative Mihail Mikov. After him will have the word Iskren Veselinov from the Patriotic Front, and then Tasco Ermenkov and Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! We will vote against this bill because it is once again sinking into some technologies for the benefit of private photovoltaic plants. A fund is created, politically managed, appointed by the minister, which will raise as state funds, and through NEK will direct them to compensate for high prices in the sector. That's what you do with different numbers. I don't know who was asking here, who mentioned Mr. Tsochev, or Mr. Simeonov, how many times the Law has been changed. As you continue to rotate in this circle, wondering how to help the ERPs, increase their rate of return or really put it, the rate of profit of the photovoltaics, to collect some funds that you can direct through NEK, the state to collect them with the power of state coercion and to direct them through NEK for private use! [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u120	Please don't call!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u121	We will not support such things. The policy of the SVR is also visible and clear. They're starting to raise the profits. The report, which caused a stormy scandal in the last month, started raising recognised costs because we know that the most money is being drained from there and the prices that these generating capacities produce are being charged. And the question arises, who will pay this bill? They sit at the restaurant, one drinks 12-year-old whiskey, the other drinks beer. In the end, the bill comes together. That's what people will understand. You will load the state capacities that sell at a low price and force them to decapitalise even more. We understand you're cutting people's expenses... And all of this is going through this fund that needs to legitimize this redistribution. But this will in no way improve the system, will not help to reduce those deficits that are generated, because the over-profits agreed as State aid, which are realised by the solar and TPP 1 and TPP 3, will continue to go to form extremely high profit rates there, and of all the others will collect in the hat to cover these accounts and this fund, notice, will be managed and appointed politically by the Minister, will have these 5% revenues, will collect them in line as state receivables. This thing will not lead to the result you promise society. This is what I wanted to say within these three minutes and to tell you that we will not support, but we will vote against this bill, and colleagues Tasco Ermenkov and Krasimir Yankov will explain more details to you. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u122	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Mikov! I do not agree with some points of your speech. First of all, it was not correct that this 5% contribution would stimulate RES and ERPs. It's just not like that. That's not gonna happen. On the other hand, it must be borne in mind that these RESs are encouraged in their production of green energy, in the sense of energy that is free, which is under European directives, and when contracts are concluded with them, they must be given the opportunity to recover their investments anyway. This was at the time when the state was ruled by other governments, other governments With regard to technological losses, just what you said about the ERPs is not true. All ERPs have reduced technological losses by 1-2 to 3 per cent compared to pre-management. I can't help but turn this around a little bit political. I would just like to remind you that more than 50% or about 50% of NEK's deficit is formed by two megalomaniac and disastrous projects for Bulgaria: one is Tsankov Kamak, and the other is NPP Belene. Finally, in terms of cutting costs through dismissals, by cutting staff from state-owned enterprises, no one has talked about this, but I am convinced and I assure you that there will be cuts as a result of the proposal made by your partner Mr. Kanev and which we all supported unanimously in this House, namely the opportunity to retire those employees who have reached retirement age. Only from there, make sure there are very serious savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Mikov, I wasn't going to give you a line, but I'd like to tell you that when you point fingers, the other three fingers point to you. That is, when you say that this DVR has done or done anything in connection with the price model of energy, the much more recent DVR has opened a hole in the National Electricity Company in the order of 900 million tariff deficit, which we are now trying to fill. He turned out to be even bigger than Belene when he was spent during the Triple Coalition. I think the price model that has been proposed is good, but really the burden of obligation to society is quite large to both business and people. That's why this fund was made. I think it will somehow bring liquidity into this system and cover the possible hidden deficits that will take place in NEK. I think that such a fund, which has it in Portugal, Spain and Italy, is doing its job well. He'll do a good job here. This fund will be run by the government one way or another through the people who are in this government. So I don't think seizing from state-owned companies in this fund is that bad. The problem is that they don't go to a loss that we have to keep track of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! Mr. Mikov, I'm amazed how you've always been an exceptional human rights worker from this tribune so that there's more justice to not burden the consumer with more bills. But if we go back and do a very brief retrospective and we see the structure of this deficit of 3.5 billion accumulated over the years in NEK and in general in energy, we will see that the main costs and main holes have opened up precisely during your management, at your management. In no way is it moral to go out on the stand and say how you are a judge of this, you see, not to burden consumers, businesses or anyone with bigger accounts. Because, think about it, the biggest deficit comes from the failed project for the nuclear power plant. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u128	You don't know the half of it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u129	Don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u130	If you think about it, during the time of Mr. Ovcharov and again during the cabinet Stanishev signed the special bets for the Maritsite, for the American power plants. Is that right? [[Laughter at BSP LB.]] Isn't that right? [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] By finishing with what you most speak of and these are the so-called RES that you actually opened the biggest door. [[Heckling]] I do not know what I am lying, Mr. Ermenkov, but perhaps from the shorthand and from the archives of the National Assembly you will take into account that precisely in 2007 and 2008 the laws were adopted, allowing Bulgaria to become one of the most attractive destinations for such projects. When you go out on the stand, you really need to give a little bit of credit for the past period. Even though we are in the Forty-third National Assembly, you have ultimately been involved in making decisions in the years behind, and there is no escape from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u131	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Mikov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u132	Then a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u133	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Dear Mr. Simeonov, I have seen a lot over the years, but they do not leave any particular clue in politics or in parliamentary life, except with their parrot screams, so I will allow myself... [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u134	Mr. Mikov, please, a little more respectable! [[Noise and lines on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u135	Respectfully, I will respond to Mr. Simeonov. That's what I was going to say. I'm not going to give any other answers because I've seen enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u136	Previously on People's Meetings.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u137	In the past, there's a lot of it, and soon they show up here. [[Shouting from the hall: "Eee! "]] Dear Mr. Simeonov, 700 leva. Buy the expensive tariff from solar RES, BGN 430. The lower the lower the lower the lower the lower the lower the lower the lower the lower the lower the lower the lower the lower the lower the lower the lower the lower the lower the lower the lower the lower the lower the £200 to £400. The figures are rude is the state aid for which the price is bought out from the Unit and the Troika; BGN 75. It is the state power plant, BGN 30. It is the state nuclear power plant. If Belene had been built, it would have generated three times cheaper current than the TPP. And right now there's an opportunity to search and continue this project. You know that such plants are built in neighbouring Turkey. However, today's governance policy does not want to solve the deficit by starting this 1 It is now impossible that this plant could have ever happened with 51% state participation. ERV you know what was the project, which in the first term of the cabinet Borisov was refused.. The Germans withdrew and so on. If there is a general solution to be sought, there is a solution to it. Let Western investors come and build this plant. A priori understanding that just by saying what a deficit is realized through "Belene" will continue to pull the system down and for all these games that are being done at the moment, after 6, 8, 10 months will be seen as a zero game or with a minimum score. They're not gonna help the system. That's why I want to tell you that we won't support him. There are numbers that are stronger than parrots' retrospects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u138	Thank you. Dear Mr. Mikov, on the grounds of art. 152 I am making a remark to you about the insulting words made to Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u139	To whom, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u140	To the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u141	To whom? Who? Tell me who!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u142	To the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u143	No, I'll appeal! Because if I said...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u144	Appeal, it's your right. He has the floor for a personal explanation of the people's representative Tasco Ermenkov. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u145	Mr. Chairman, are you going to impose the same punishment on those who just asked, "Is he a parrot?"
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u146	Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u147	No, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u148	Because you've just had personal insults.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u149	No, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, I would first like to apologize for calling from the spot and provoked my colleague Nenkov to mention my name. Indeed, what he said was absolutely wrong and false. When it comes to renewable energy sources that were introduced in 2012, they have nothing to do with the contracts that were signed by 2009. I will explain why, Mr. Nenkov. Ask for one such preliminary contract, which was signed by June 2009, and you will see that there is a period of two years in it where, if nothing happens, this contract becomes insignificant. Even if it was on the last day of a preliminary contract for the introduction of a renewable energy source into operation, it expired in June 2011. Those we are talking about, Nenkov, entered in 2012, so these preliminary contracts are just one big speculation and they have nothing to do with what you are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u151	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. There is a speech for the people representative Iskren Veselinov, after him the national representative Tasco Ermenkov, after him Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! As the chairman of our parliamentary group said, we will support at first reading both laws. Perhaps we should simplify the answer why we will support them, as quite complex arguments are put in place by those who do not wish the bills to become a fact. The truth is very simple. If we do not make these reforms now, we will have new higher prices of electricity and they will hit the citizens, they will hit the business, they will hit the country's economy accordingly. This was part of the Patriotic Front's desire to postpone the KEWRC's decision on new prices, because we know that there are reservations in the system and they must be sought decisively by us as MPs through legislation, and of course by governance. The main thing that is right and we support in this bill is for the energy produced by RES, and I naturally expected there to be a violent reaction against the Law, albeit for various reasons. The question we have to ask ourselves is, should there be sanctions for those who misled the regulator years ago and for years have received a price above what their investment would justify. In our view, we must, and this is just... this justice must be introduced. Should there be a penalty for those who, using European funding, have not reported this fact and again received high prices, receiving compensation for something they have not done? Absolutely, again in the name of justice! After all, people's intolerance to any news of increasing electricity prices is basically an intolerance to the fact that they pay the bill for certain legislative errors, if you are going to make regulatory mistakes, and we think that with this thing should be stopped once and for all. Indeed, there is a resonant in some of the speeches that talk about the problems that would receive some of the state electric companies in the introduction of these 5% deductions. Between first and second reading, it is worth thinking of these charges being linked to the profitability of the undertakings concerned. In this way, large producers with little profitability would not be allowed to indirectly subsidise RES and other re-trained plants. I'd like to extend the time, if I may.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u154	In this spirit, we also fully support the idea for companies that import these 5% to be not only producers of electric power. energy, but also the ERPs. I think that everyone who, in the chain of time, has created more or less liquidity problems in the National Electricity Company should take responsibility and get involved in solving these problems. Indeed, the Fund, which is requested, is a good thing. Such funds are available in several countries. In my opinion, we should even reflect on the issue of expanding and more ambitious interpretation of the tasks of this Fund because, apart from the security of the electricity system by attracting external funding, it can be a powerful factor for the renewal of Bulgarian energy and for reforms in it. In this spirit, it is good to direct dividends from state-owned energy companies, revenues from the sale of non-operative assets of state-owned energy companies, revenues from trade in green certificates, where, by the way, the Ministry of Ecology continues to owe. We are still waiting for him to issue the necessary regulations so that these green certificates can be traded. We rely on a great deal of rapid and effective reform in state energy, because there are reserves in both NEC and in large producers of electricity. I'll give just one example. In French state energy, about 20% savings have been made only by breaking the connection between the contracting entity and the counterparty. A special commission in their BEH (Bulgarian Energy Holding). Let's put it this way, assigns public procurement to companies upon request. By ending the relationship between a contracting entity and a counterparty, the necessary savings have been obtained. Many things can be added, of course, by re-evaluation of the assets and stocks that are in state-owned companies, to the auctions for the sale of unattractive and loss-making activities, as well as a number of others, which I very much hope the Ministry will make sense and realise either through a regulation, or through instructions, either by means of any instructions to be binding on state-owned companies. In this spirit, I would like to support once again the two legislations tabled. I would like to ask colleagues between first and second readings to direct our energy to make them better, not to reject them without serious arguments or rather to look for reasons to reject them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u155	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Tasco Ermenkov is among the Members of the National Assembly who signed up for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u156	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! It is a great temptation to start now with criticism of the importers signed by GERB of this Bill and to remind them of their not so long ago speeches which were in complete contradiction with the texts proposed by them now. However, I will not take advantage of this, because I am sure that they themselves, as nominated and not as actual importers, are aware of the illogicality, the wrongness, I would say, with the incarnation of unprofessionalism of this bill. Here the person responsible for this pasquil is the government in the face of the Prime Minister and he should be blushing for the premature child imported to us as a panacea for Bulgarian energy. However, allow me a few quotes that, against the background of what is happening today, sound really ridiculous. A policy in support of small and medium-sized enterprises is being carried out. Development of a low-carbon economy. Activating dialogue with business. Improving the business environment in Bulgaria and so on. Before you ask yourself what are these quotes that are inadequate to the extraordinary nature of what is happening, let me just remind you that these are the promises of the ruling majority contained in their management program, which is somewhat ironic against the background of what is happening today is called the Program for Sustainable Development of Bulgaria. Colleagues, I am sure that each of you has read the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria at least once. I'm sure you'll find nothing new in her article. 19, but since any law adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria must comply with the framework of this supreme act, I allow myself to remind you: Art. 19. (1) The economy of the Republic of Bulgaria is based on the free economic initiative. (2) The law creates and guarantees to all citizens and legal entities equal legal conditions for business, preventing abuse of monopolyism, unfair competition and protecting the consumer. (3) The investments and business activities of Bulgarian and foreign citizens and legal entities shall be protected by the law. (4) The law creates conditions for cooperation and other forms of association of citizens and legal entities in order to achieve economic and social progress. Is this bill in accordance with para. 1?! No, of course not, since this Bill introduces a change of game rules in the middle of the game, if I may say so figuratively. It's like we've defined the rules of the game for European football, and once we've realized that we're not there, we've accepted those of the American one without giving the other side the right to change equipment and players. Does this Bill create and guarantee all citizens and legal entities equal legal conditions for business, preventing the abuse of monopoly, unfair competition and protecting consumers? Two?! Of course not! And how to create them when the main culprits for the deficit of NEK When I say that they are the main culprits for NEK's deficit, I will illustrate it with Minister Petkova's statement last Friday during parliamentary control. She asked how much NEK's losses were from the TPP Maritsa East 1 (in 2014), she said: "As a result of the costs that NEK has incurred to acquire, to purchase this energy and the revenues that have been realised, respectively, the costs are 493 million. lv. For the acquisition of this energy and revenue, 240 million respectively The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 155,000. lv. Notice, this is only about one of the two power plants, the smaller one, with 670 megawatts installed power, and only about the purchased energy. There's no greater here than 908 megawatts. There is no availability here, which, after being paid by NEK, has already formed a clean loss for the company, because there is nothing to sell against what you have already paid him. Both companies, however, both power plants will not pay anything and according to this Bill. What constitutional equality, what protection from monopolies, what care for the consumer?! If I defend this Law, the investments and business activities of Bulgarian and foreign legal entities under para. 3 of the Constitution?! Colleagues, without underestimating your intelligence, knowing that each of you is convinced that you are not protecting them, I will try only through one of the proposals in the Law to confirm this conviction. Is it possible to introduce retroactive obligations within normal legislation?! For non-violent in the legal terms of the debt with retroactive effect. In my opinion, no, and your vote will show how it is in your opinion. And lastly, according to para. 4 The law must create conditions for cooperation and other forms of association of citizens and legal entities to achieve economic and social progress. Does this bill create such conditions? Absolutely not! Moreover, it creates new dividing lines. And if to this day the ruling majority has divided us into poor and rich by standard of living, socially significant and socially insignificant for access to health care, they also intend to divide us by the quality of education that we will receive by introducing the possibility of state subsidizing private schools...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u157	You're off topic, Mr. Ermenkov. You know what's next to turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u158	Now we are witnessing the latest Nobel Prize-worthy division line... I'm talking about the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u159	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u160	...to one investor against another, in which I'm not sure if this dividing line is the net of a tennis court?! Dear colleagues, what is being offered today is the 19th amendment of the Energy Act for the past six years! However, this is also the 19th proof that without public consensus, without prior dialogue, without a clear energy strategy, there is no way to face the difficult challenges facing Bulgarian energy. The extremely incorrect trend continues for the country's energy legislative proposals to be made improvised without any co-ordination with the European Commission and without analyzing their compliance with the legislation of the European Union and the Republic of Bulgaria. Taxes and charges shall be imposed which, in accordance with the Constitution of the country, cannot be accepted in the middle of the year and not in the manner provided for in the legislation. I took the liberty during the meeting of the Energy Commission to joke that both GERB and BSP during the time in which we partly managed the country, we came twice the hob with unthinkable fees. Today we are witnessing how one black eye of GERB is few and is trying masochistic to occur once again, record for the third time, the same pick. This Bill affects the rights of a large part of investors in the sector, without an analysis of how the country can be held accountable. Only the populist and illegal thesis on maintaining the price of electricity unchanged and legislative changes reflect this extremely improper and political in nature, in the attempt to restore the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory to its role as a political instrument and not to an independent regulator. Dear colleagues, populism, when not economically lining up, is dangerous to the economic development of the state, but when it is also right-wing populism, means death for any development. And, honourable Members, let us not blame our own decisions when we give power and independence to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The envisaged legal changes, for which no public discussion has been held, and which are intended to be adopted in just one week, I am convinced that there will now be a shortening of the period between first and second reading, will surely...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u161	There can't be now. After preparing a joint report, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u162	Not only will it not achieve the goals it promotes, but will cause irreparable damage to Bulgarian citizens, local and foreign investors and their acceptance will endanger the financial stability of Bulgaria. Moreover, these are changes that are entirely directed against state and municipal electricity. I'm going to illustrate this statement with numbers. The total gross electricity production in Bulgaria in 2014 was 47.4 billion. kylova hour, including 33.5% of NPP, 20% of the state's mines, Maritsa East 2, 6% of the public heating companies and almost 10% of the NEK's large hydropower plants. This means that the 5 per cent contribution to the planned new fund will mainly load the state energy producing nearly 70% of the country's electricity. This additional taxation by 5% is against the backdrop of the reduced electricity price of the hydropower plant, of the National Energy Company by 17%, the reduced price of the public supplier by almost 5%, the continuing buying-in of half of the electricity produced by the nuclear power plant The aim of the proposed changes is in an almost certainly unconstitutional way, in the event of a breach of the laws and principles of regulation of the electricity sector to redistribute funds for the benefit of some investors who will continue to receive a seamless 43% annual net profit at the expense of all other market participants, producers, traders, final suppliers, grid operators and electricity distribution network operators. And as paradoxical as it may sound, the public supplier will also be wronged. This Draft Law is signed by the President of the Energy Committee in the National Assembly, its Vice-President without the opinion of the Legal Committee and without coordination with regard to its compliance with European Union law. Who will be responsible if, as a result of these changes, the Republic of Bulgaria is sentenced to pay billions to investors? Is there anyone who at all believes that the quotes read by me at the beginning of the program of the current government of the Republic of Bulgaria are something different from the rumours of politicians who put the appropriateness of their short-term goals ahead of the high but also damaged principles for the rule of law and the rule of law contained in their coalition agreement? Let me go further and ask: is anyone at all interested in the long-term interests of the country in the field of energy? Does anyone have the illusion that the state of energy can improve while turning one part of the business against another, employers' organizations and trade unions against foreign investors and banks, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission against NEK and NPP Gentlemen ruling, the feeling of extraordinary, extraordinary, of forcefulness and rushiness, and especially of impunity, in your proposals and actions is all around us these days. Your attempt to do the impossible for big business, while simultaneously channeling huge cash flows to NEK, was properly likened to that game where we revolve around chairs and finally, when the whistle blows, we sit down. I'm worried the last one won't have a seat. He'll sit on the ground.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u163	You're always on the chair, and I'm on the ground.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u164	Madam President, I understand that upbringing is not everyone's thing, but at least let you introduce it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u165	No qualifications! Please, no interference from the auditorium, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u166	If the government succeeds in imposing their legislative decisions, which we are discussing today, a large part of Bulgaria's electricity sector will be destroyed, as long as the final result will be negative for the entire Bulgarian society as well as NEK EAD. This policy of yours strongly smells of attempts at the state's final destruction of electricity and perhaps its subsequent privatisation. This strongly smells of the last attempt to destroy and plunder the few remaining public, along with the cooked privatization of hospitals and schools. I call on every sane person in this House to reject our proposed bill. I call on anyone who cares about our homeland to think twice before pressing the voting button, because today, in the form of salvation for NEK, we are offered his final burial. Because today, in the form of empathy with consumers, are wagering those mines that will explode tomorrow and will lead electricity prices in our country to levels that seem impossible today. Let us instead of voting on the death penalty for state energy, together we find the way to end the contracts with TPP - Maritsa East 1 and TPP - Maritsa East 3 - which are the real culprits of the NEK deficit. Let us work together today to develop a fair model to encourage honest investors and punish speculative investors. The Bulgarian Socialist Party and Coalition BSP left Bulgaria and are ready to conduct this dialogue, but there is no way to support a bill putting its constitutionality in serious doubt and which is directed against the state and statehood. We will therefore vote against its adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u167	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I won't. Minister Petkova wants the floor. [[Replications between the MPs Tsvetomir Mihov and Tasco Ermenkov.]] Colleagues, no lines between you from place to place. Your sentences are of interest, so share them with a microphone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to take occasion from Mr. Ermenkov's words, as he quoted one of my responses from last week regarding a parliamentary question. Mr. Ermenkov stopped right where he shouldn't have stopped. You should have continued a little longer, since the answer I gave back then was also a continuation. And it says that the main reason for generating this difference, as a result that the state then Energy and Water Regulatory Commission recognised to the National Electricity Company some costs of purchasing electricity from this power plant that do not correspond to the actual one. And as a result, you get this difference. Moreover, I would like to open just one clamp and remind the following: when we talk about who is burying NEK and who is saving him, we need to remember another circumstance that is related to the price reduction last year. [[The National Representative Tsvetomir Mihov spoke with the MPs Krasimir Yankov and Tasco Ermenkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u169	Mihov, don't stop the colleagues from listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u170	This decrease in electricity by 5% was possible because there was a price decision of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of 14 May 2014. According to this price decision the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission reduced the prices of both US power plants by 20% to one and 30% to the other, respectively. This is to achieve a 5% reduction. But what the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is still doing is in the same decision to oblige the National Electricity Company to continue buying from the two US power plants at the prices that are currently active. As a result, the National Electricity Company from June to December generated a loss of 300 million. Only one such price decision. That's what I want to be clear about when it comes to who's trying to bury NEK and who's trying to somehow propose some kind of rescue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u171	Speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u172	There is a number of registered MPs to speak. He is now Mr. Alexander Nenkov of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! I will try to focus on the debate on the bills that have been tabled in plenary today. Colleagues, although it is a little paradoxical, of course, because I am still one of the importers, ultimately you know that the Bill and the texts in it are largely based on multiple meetings, both between the Ministry of Energy, between the regulator, between trade unions and employers' organisations, taking into account the fact that despite the urgency and importance of the proposed changes, requiring that these texts be dealt quickly and possibly adopted, we take into account with colleagues the fact that there are some texts that need to be further worked. I appeal to all the parliamentary groups, regardless of our close political interests, to try between the first and second votes to make such texts work and in the spirit of how to reduce the deficit mainly in the National Electricity Company. I will support the bill to which I am co-ordinate, and for one main reason, namely the establishment of the Electricity System Security Fund. Why? Because, fellow Members, whether we are going to vote on this fund now or in a few months, we have been talking about how we should move smoothly to a liberalised electricity market. As much as we don't want to, there is no way this market can be realized if there is no such fund. Whether we like the contracts with the US power plants, whether we like the contracts with renewable energy sources, someone has to compensate for the difference that will open between the freely negotiated prices of these producers and what must be paid to them up to the preferential price set back in the years by the regulator. The Electricity System Security Fund is therefore, in my opinion, a very important and important factor. Whether we accept it now or in a few months, it is necessary to be able to balance the system so that the National Electricity Company, in the future, after entering a liberalized market, can bear this burden. Here I will express my reservations about some of the texts on which the previous ones expressed concerns about the retroactivity of some of the texts. I think we should approach it a little more carefully there. Many of the problems in energy are that both in this House and various price regulatory solutions have led to this deficit, but when a decision is taken back in time, right or wrong, we must bear our responsibility. With light hand, we should not go back in time and take out one big one, I apologize, baltia, and since we were wrong in the old days, let's now fix one mistake with another. I believe and wish to live in a country where she will be a right partner. I also appeal to colleagues: to make such texts to avoid the note of doubt that we want to correct one mistake backwards in time. As far as other texts are concerned, I believe that they are very important, namely smaller RES projects financed under the Rural Programme, and at the same time they have taken a preferential price. Undoubtedly there is an overpaid income, there is, so to speak, double funding. As I recall, the regulator said it was about 28 million. Euros, there is even a criminal procedure against Bulgaria. Undoubtedly, there we must stop double funding and try to recover those costs that have already been incurred. Colleagues, I propose and hope to be more objective. Let's put our political addictions behind us a little bit and try to fill this hole in energy. As the talkers said, there's no more time to waste. I am sure that the texts may not have been perfected to the end, but there is something we can do between the first and second votes, although the deadlines that we are likely to propose and will eventually be adopted. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u174	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Realizing that there is no way to ask for a procedure to end this debate, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because it is already clear and evident that there are generally no comments on the philosophy and the substance of the bill, but we have come to lines and speeches of the kind of parrots, from I don't know what you are, which makes me ask you to be stricter and expressive in substance precisely and clearly. I suppose Mr. Nenkov will understand, too, because it is one thing to say that it is necessary to act quickly and, at the same time, to waste parliamentary time. If there are no colleagues who have nothing more to say, or to proceed to a vote, or, Madam President, be stricter so that the speeches are just in substance, rather than talking nonsense here. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP left Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u176	Only we won't agree on the creature, Mr. Bayraktarov, because the representatives of your parliamentary group have spoken. In your opinion, they have spoken precisely in substance, and the rest go beyond the being, but I do not have this competence and privilege to censor the MPs, so I accept that they all speak on the philosophy of the Bill. There is another statement, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u177	Including the one who was talking about parrots, I'm guessing he was talking about philosophy and the bill. [[Noise and lines.]] I trust you'll agree that's not the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u178	And you will agree that you cannot take the floor without me giving it to you. [[Noise and lines.]] To speak, Mr. Ramadan Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u179	Thank you, Madam President. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Dear colleagues, we are looking at a bill that should be expected of society with great impatience.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u180	Colleagues, I can't hear Mr. Atalay within three feet of him. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u181	This is precisely what this is about, Madam President, that the non-interest of the Members of the National Assembly towards this bill subsequently leads to high calls around the National Assembly and it comes from organisations that come out unregulated. Dear colleagues, we are looking at a bill on the basis of which, today, each MP with his vote will give the Commission the legal basis for energy and water regulation to determine the price of electricity. That's what we're talking about, fellow Members. If anyone thinks that here today, from this tribune, speaking, we are wasting our time, it will show up immediately on July 1st when the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission determines the price that our voters will pay. [[Noise and lines.]] It will also identify those companies that use electricity. Today, by adopting this bill, we actually determine the price of electricity. We give Ivan Ivanov and those we have chosen from this Parliament the opportunity to put their signatures under everything we are going to accept today. Therefore, colleagues, the bill you are proposing to us at the moment was necessary, I think, because we expect through these bills to stabilise the electricity system, defining the cash flow that is needed for producers, which will be collected by the final customer. And the final customer is whether they will be the people or enterprises that use electricity, these are all people who for one reason or another use the goods of electricity production so that some can live comfortably and others can produce comfortably. What do I disagree with what you have proposed, Madam Minister? Firstly, you made the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission postpone its decision. What was needed by the Commission, this Law, which was needed, could have been adopted another month of March, to give all the reasons not to cause society to lose once again confidence in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I do not agree with this Bill because it was proposed and presented on behalf of fellow MPs accepted in Mr. Borisov's office by a very small part of the business. And if the business had come to the Energy Commission with an idea, with concern for power generators of the nuclear power plant, thermal power plants, photovoltaics, wind generators, I would have understood them. But they came with the clear idea of forcing power generators to produce electricity that we can provide to them, to large consumers, electricity that they need to produce at cost. When there is no balance, the shortage of NEK is already visible. And that's only from the debalanced system. At the moment, if we accept the proposals as you are proposing to us, our attempt to stabilise energy will meet with destabilization of the energy system. With the loss of trust, we are already seeing it, and the destabilization of the energy system as you are currently proposing will be a fact. And why is that? Firstly, you are offering a fund that is really needed, a fund that ensures that the public is met with the lack of obligations. Such a fund is needed. For such a fund we had tried in the previous government. It has also been proposed hastily, as you are offering it to us at the moment. Then it was 20%, but as you can see, the fate of the 20 percent dropped out of court. I believe that the 5% that you, looking at the ceiling, will also fall from the court and we will still be left without a fund that is essential. We will propose a differentiated approach. This approach, honourable Members, will resolve the issue of bearing the burden, responsibility. Those who contribute most to the deficit will have to bear the most of this burden. In my opinion, the imposition of 5% of the nuclear power plant, if you have listened to the media, since yesterday, your directors of the nuclear power plant, former and current, in the media, have reported that only because of this, where the regulatory conditions have not been accepted, the long-term contracts of the nuclear power plant have already been lost. And if that's concern, I don't accept it! If, with these 5%, we load the other producers, the heat power plants, and they can handle them, that means that we will raise the price of the nuclear power plant, the heat power plants with those percentages that we will load the fund with. In my opinion, photovoltaics, depending on the period of inclusion in the electricity system, with a differentiated approach, can absorb more weight than the 5% that we are offered here. And that's why I'm telling you the direction you are showing with the fund is correct, but the methods that you are offering us here, perhaps between first and second readings, should be discussed very seriously. Today, every MP needs to understand what we're doing, what we're talking about from this tribune. We're talking about the price of electricity that will rise to every final customer! If today the final client pays 40 BGN and the business pays 18 BGN, with the revenues that we will provide in this fund, the 150 million that we will find additionally with these 5%, including with other actions, will it not turn out that the business will not pay that burden that is necessary and people will continue to pay those 53 BGN that pay this month?! With the withdrawal of the regulatory period by one month, you, honourable colleagues from GERB, from the Patriotic Front, all who adopted this decision, made the public pay another month 53 BGN. It's a load to the green energy. If we had adopted the regulatory period, people would have paid 13 leva. less, and the business, depending on the amount of electricity, would have paid 5-6 BGN. More than they're paying right now. And we have suffered this injustice for a month! And if we accept the conditions that business offers us right now, we'll let it not take its weight. Those 40 levs that remain in society if we don't distribute them 20 levs. 20 of the business and 20 of the customers, we will also not have done our job. The other thing I cannot accept and should be considered very seriously between first and second readings, Madam Minister, is retroactive action. Bulgaria must be the predictable and stable partner of the business. With retroactive actions, we do not send positive messages to investors and to those who want to improve our country's economy. Retroactive actions are not actions of a European country. I think that's why between first and second readings should be seriously considered in this part. Colleagues, if we do not make an effort today to correct the mistakes made in recent years of energy management, it will be even later in a month. Therefore, every attempt, every effort to find a balanced approach, to find the opportunity for electricity companies to produce and sell their production above cost, and to find a way to find those who do not have the opportunity to pay for the service, the state through the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to find a way to subsidise them. Otherwise, in a month's time, we will try to amend the Energy Act once again, and thus we will continue for many years, which will not produce a good result. Therefore, Madam Minister, I think the accounts you make should be correct. I hope between first and second reading the commitments you have made for one reason or another to try to balance them so that we can finally adopt a working law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u182	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement there is the word Krasimir Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! I'm going to talk to both the bills that are being proposed. I start with the first, with the importer mainly Mr. Delyan Dobrev and address the importers. You guys know what you're suggesting? Do you know what consequences, what effects will have on Bulgarian energy? To you, the government: Is that why you needed a month? What you are proposing will have a long-term negative impact on base production capacities in energy. Either you know what the consequences are and you deliberately decide that this is the fate of energy behind the mask, or you don't know what you're doing! But in both cases, in front of Boyko Borisov, as it became clear from the statements during the discussions in the Commission. This is happening without your concern, on the principle: Next is the flood! From other statements of Minister Temenuzhka Petkova we understand that the period you have bet is 2018 as an interest. Dear fellow governors, the people will decide not to depend on you and the sooner the better. You decide somewhere, vote, order, punish without asking if he's guilty, then prove himself. A management model known to Bulgarian citizens known to our people in front of the eyes and under the direction of Boyko Borisov. [[Heckling]] In the bill proposed, you do not use the terms correctly, but you have included that it is a 5% contribution. Dear colleagues, as a contribution, will there be an account of the individual company? Is this payment gonna go away? Will it be provided to the manufacturer concerned? Or it's a toll game of words. That is why you were warned by other colleagues that this might be cancelled on appeal. Five percent now. If it's not enough to cover the NEK deficit, how many will it be? Ten percent? The proposed Bill states: "To the 15th figure 5% of the revenue is paid. Dear colleagues, Madam Minister, what if there's no money for wages?! With regard to the other measures you propose: what analysis did you make on the revenue from the sale of allowances? What will be the effect of introducing the restrictions? Did you ask the manufacturers, did you hear their opinion? The banking sector, which currently finances much of the energy, what does it have to do with it? Or you're ready to shake, including the banking system, to be in power. You're in a hurry! One month. This month has to be decided. However, there are other solutions and we have told you, we have told you. The second draft of Mr. Dimitrov's Law. Yeah, BSP's for publicity. We have repeatedly stated it and we are behind these statements everything on the table! We've asked for information about similar contracts that you're offering with a bill, by law, to be in front of people. Colleagues, I am making the arrangement. The texts will need to be refined, as you said in the discussion in the Commission. They must be much cleaner in order not to fall into the column of "good intentions' and then to be rejected, in particular, in relation to commercial secrecy when signing contracts between two companies. Otherwise, we are surprised to read in the proposed Bill: The regulation of public disclosures and optimization of the costs of commercial companies with 50 or over 50% state participation. Dear colleagues, you are involved in this department. We don't understand why we need a regulation, and I'm not sure the regulation is correct. It is strange that by law you introduce such a regulation, it is strange that now, almost a year after this government has been structured, because it should take over the helm of power by assigning Boyko Borisov to propose ministers specifically for the sector, through them to manage the whole sector. It is clear to these companies that you have not been controlled or unable to. Colleagues, request that those who have not optimized the costs of the companies be fired. Ask the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to be fired. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] We'll back you up on that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u184	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Valentin Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, let me say this as in the Commission I have made an analogy with Greece, which is a kind of national electricity company and when they have already started to hinder all the deficits and debts accumulated in the national electricity company, in a kind of mini referendum each one of them says......................... and does not want to pay the debts of NEK, although they are accumulated in one form or another........................................ Apparently, someone has to pay because all these debts are really funded by banks and creditors. Someone has to pay for this. A KEWRC model was proposed, which, thank God, we chose with great support from the National Assembly. A model that I thought was fair. Yes, indeed, who felt an increase in the current, of course, was trying to take steps accordingly and say his not to this model. The problem is that political parties have tried to dump everything on the Council of Ministers and personally on the prime minister, for which I firmly believe that there is no reason. It was no accident that we made the KEWRC independent. The responsibility was personally of Boyko Borisov, the responsibility was of the Council of Ministers. Of course, some of the lines were to make a PR on the back of the Prime Minister, but this is another matter. That's why he reacted instantly. Since it is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister, options were sought to offer additional measures that will affect the price model that the KEWRC should take. We proposed precisely these measures, which were discussed in a broader format in the Ministry of Energy and personally with the Prime Minister. Yes, some of them, looking more closely, with this retroactivity, retrospect in the sense of the debts that some of the plants need to return to a possible decision of the KEWRC, I would really be willing to review it between first and second readings. It's a way for all the power plants that produce electricity to bear that weight and reassign themselves to all of them. Even here I have heard rumors, I hope they are not true, that there have already been attempts and formation of models, so that some of the plants can be bought out, so that they can be bankrupt. No, that's not the point, and I think they'll all bear that burden. But if you really offer higher rates, there is a danger of some of the plants, I'm talking about renewables, really going bankrupt, and that could raise a lot of doubt, I'd say. Therefore, I will personally oppose the increase in rates at any plant. The nuclear power plant right now, in the order of 60 million profits last year, would take away 40 million and go to that fund. Yes, indeed this is a problem for the Nuclear Power Plant, provided that we expect it to fulfil the extension of the resources of the V and VI Bloc something that has been laid down in all governments so far as a major priority. But if we look closely, the National Electricity Company (NEC) currently owes 200 million to the NPP Kozloduy. That's no worse than taking away 40 million? If there is a steady cash flow to the power plants from the National Electricity Company, I think that then they will stabilize their financial situation much better than if they are taken away 5% of the revenue based on production. We see that such models have been made in other countries in Europe, which have found a tariff deficit. There's no point in going back to see where this tariff deficit comes from. If we look at the financial results of the National Electricity Company, 2012 comes to profit. From then on, its loss grew rapidly until last year, when it was the biggest financial collapse, a tariff deficit of 900 million, and in fact a financial deficit of 600 million on the basis of exports, which makes the National Electricity Company. I think this bill gives a basis between first and second readings to stabilise some of the proposals, and this is a model that will allow not to bear a great deal of weight from raising the prices of whether from the business, whether from the ordinary consumer, and everyone equally to bear this burden, because the bill really needs to be paid. If we are talking about transparency, passing the second law, and I see that there are some transparencyists here who have consistently created transparency and insisted on it, I remember that 2014, we, a group of MPs, went to the National Electricity Company, when they were supposed to show their financial results, to publish them. For several months they were not given. Those claims of transparency and insistence were not there at the time. I am about this transparency, which is listed in the second bill, but there must be a limit of transparency because no one knows the price of gas at which it buys, for example, France from Algeria or elsewhere, because these contracts have not been published entirely. No one knows the price Germany buys gas at. There are international contracts, and there are clauses, and trade secrets that cannot be published. If we publish the prices at which everyone buys the electricity they want to export to Turkey and Germany, then in this case, what arguments will we give them so that they can sell it there and at what price? That is, at some point, on the basis of transparency, we can make sure that a large part of our exports stop and that some contracts that have already been concluded cannot be operated and that we carry out arbitration cases for this. So I ask with transparency to have a certain abstinence. I think that both bills put up with some adjustments between first and second readings, but it is good to be supported in most of the first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u186	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Nikolov, I listened carefully. I welcome that you are prepared to make between first and second reading cardinal changes to all that has been proposed, but I will not be able to agree with your thesis that the executive authority, including the Prime Minister, has no bearing on energy and on the formation of the price of the service. No, he is responsible for everything that is happening in the GERB group and all that is happening in the country. Because this bill has been proposed by you with the consent of the Ministry of Economy and Energy here is Minister Petkova. So Mr. Borisov along with you and with us bears this responsibility. As for transparency, I just want to say that even out of respect for your partners, you have adopted a bill that you are wondering how to reject. Is that right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u188	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I disagree with Mr. Nikolov's position as an importer. You surprise me very much, Mr. Nikolov. You are ready to cancel a very important part of your bill. To change the way back in the time of the law. I think that's one of the most meaningful things in this law. In other words, taking the position expressed in his statement by the DPS representative, I see that you simply agree with all those who have abused, lied, stole and signed and prepared false documents to be simplified to them. Oh, yeah? I absolutely disagree with you! What will remain of this law if the other proposal of the representative of the DPS is hardly to think to which to apply this 5% fee. Then take and withdraw the entire law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u190	Bravo! That's what we're offering.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u191	There is no way to simplify the abuse, the deception, the lie that a huge part of the RES has offered, and you know it much better than I do because I have now found it in the Commission. We are talking about hundreds of renewable electricity producers who have lied about not receiving European aid, which have lied to the size of the connected capacities they have lied to with their initial investments. And it is this extremely useful proposal that you are ready to review and withdraw it almost at second reading. I can't understand you?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u192	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, for the back, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I find myself guilty, maybe I haven't explained well. Mr. Atalay, of course it's our responsibility and the Prime Minister's. I was referring to the price decision proposed by the KEWRC. Then the Prime Minister, respectively the Council of Ministers, was accused of this price decision and we talked about the KEWRC as an independent body. I'm talking about this, not the bill that's been tabled. Mr. Simeonov, of course they must bear responsibility, not just responsibility. They must be punished in every way that he has abused. I'm talking about a model that could possibly be applied as a type of corruption model, from the point of view of checks, given money. Because, you know, 2012, when a lot of RES were given on one day, permissions to use. I'm sure it wasn't so voluntary, but it was stimulating in some way, financially. I'm afraid we're gonna do something like this now. However, of course, all who have abused European funds and received double funding at a preferential price, of course all who have abused higher investment costs must be reduced prices. That is why I strongly agree, but I am talking about something that can be challenged in the Constitutional Court, so I am only talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u194	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. For a statement, the people representative Radan Kanev. Here you are, Mr. Kanev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! It is obvious that this Bill is voted on and will in all likelihood be voted successfully at first reading with a very large agreement on the possible consequences if, in this form, the texts also come into force with regard to possible adjustments between first and second readings. Repeatedly with the same arguments, and with the same hope of correction between first and second readings, we have supported bills, including from the type of knee imported, similar to that, and in some cases between first and second reading, the necessary adjustments have actually been imported. In most cases, we have to admit, this has not happened normally because of the lack of sufficient majority in the Commission, due to the lack of sufficient time, in this case, I suppose the time will be particularly small. I know the risk when you speak against a bill that is loudly advertised as an emergency measure to stop the increase in electricity prices. I know the risk of being accused of defending the interests of those who sell expensive electricity and, supposedly, after the entry into force of these measures, will be put at a disadvantage. By the way, such laws, with the same officially proclaimed goals, have already been voted repeatedly, each time with bad consequences. For this reason, on behalf of the Reformation Block Group, I say that it will vote on conscience and there will be different voices at first reading. On my behalf, as a Member of the National Assembly, I say that I will vote strongly against this Law, because the philosophy of this Law does not, in my view, allow even between first and second reading the necessary adjustments to be made, but above all, because the way it is adopted, the speed at which this Draft enters, the complete lack of discussion and preparation, the strange circle of individuals who eventually come to agreement on the texts, the lack of consistency with the election programmes of the ruling parties and the consistency between the parties of the majority, do so more than dangerous as precedent and as a model of political behaviour. And also because in terms of the risks that I have put at risk, I believe that for two reasons, it is not my concern, and I can afford it. First of all, both I vote and a thousand times I vote, the slander campaign against me that I defend certain corporate circles will not subside, so I carry it on my back, regardless of the vote. Secondly, because of the 23 MPs in the group of the Reformist bloc there is not one that can be suspected to the slightest degree in conflict of interest when it comes to Bulgarian energy and this is rare for the Bulgarian Parliament, so we can afford a certain luxury of freedom of conduct. [[Applause from RB.]] Specifically on the proposed measures. With the arrangement that similar and knee-written measures always have unpredictable consequences, and I speak without the claim of being either a genius or a fortune-teller so I can say them. For this job, it takes a lot of experts to work a lot of time. With regard to the undertakings in question, as regards the contributions to the Fund, whether it is a security contribution or a tax on the production of electricity, with which we take some money from producers to finance the producers to reduce their price, I can say that it is generally acceptable to the group of the Reforming Block. This is one of the reasons why some of the colleagues support the Bill. At the same time, the risk that the opposition colleagues have put out, these texts to fall, is extremely high and this will happen again with the consequences of an increasing deepening of the crisis in the Bulgarian energy sector. With regard to the price reduction above the statutory hours of work with a privileged price, we support this measure, but we strongly do not support the abuse of producers to be obliged to sell this energy at an excess price. It is quite possible that this energy can be realised on the free market and if this Law passes at first reading, this possibility must be assured. With regard to measures relating to the energy of producers' own needs, it should also be welcomed as a measure, it contains both economic and legal logic. Let's come to the main question: the envisaged new article. 32a of the Renewable Energy Act, which introduces, with retroactive action, not just overcoming certain distortions, notice, in the legal process, and not in the practice in the past, but changing the overall investment model, where good or bad Bulgarian investors, as I have already said, many of these investors are Bulgarian politicians, none of them are from our group. It does not matter whether they are Bulgarian politicians, whether they are large international companies, they have invested in the terms of a clear model, extremely stupid, creating huge conditions for disproportionate profits, subsequently repeatedly adjusted but clearly legal model, whereby an abstract average level of investment is measured by an abstractly formulated average level of yield and an abstractly formulated final price is achieved, the same for a particular type of producer, for a given calendar year. None of these indicators provides for an individual calculation of investments and none of them provides for an individual negotiation of the price. Such a reversal of the model with retroactive action and with the provision of deduction of revenue already received, there are several consequences that the Bulgarian economy cannot take and we should be aware of, therefore, whenever we propose such measures in this case, and in any subsequent case, in which we would be tempted to take such a measure. First of all, let it be a template and let's say it again, the effect on the investment climate of a country that affords such measures is devastating. We are a country that desperately needs foreign investment and is desperately trying to drive them away with continuous political action from the highest level to the lowest level, but in this case it is the highest possible level of the state. Secondly, the stability of the banking system. All these projects are built with loans from Bulgarian banks, they are all built on the principle that the state legally guaranteed certain profitability of the borrowers. Re-negotiation of all these loans under the new conditions and the subsequent need to improvise these assets in the banks' portfolios can have really unpredictable, extremely severe consequences at a time when we all have legitimate concerns about both the state of our banking system, in itself, and the effect of the Greek financial crisis on parts of the Bulgarian banking system. Thirdly, it is completely unclear what is happening to the profits of these companies, which at this time will be taken away from them. Are we going to pay them back? What's going on with the tax charge? How can we even think about having this conversation without hearing the finance minister on these matters? Do we know what the direct consequences for the Bulgarian fisk are? I can tell you. With regard to the necessary reverse charge of VAT and return of tax profit, we will be talking about tens of millions of levs. With regard to the claims that will be directed towards the Bulgarian state, it is about hundreds of millions of levs. The end result of such an adventure instead of a small and uncertain accounting profit will be a severe accounting loss and immeasurable losses in investment opportunities for the state. In conclusion: we cannot drive any investor, even if he has earned it, even if he has made excessive profits, to pay the political irresponsibility of previous Bulgarian governments, because that is what we are trying to do. From here on, with careful calculation of corruption risk, because it is significant, we can switch to individual bargaining, and maybe we should switch to individual valuation and negotiation, but legislatively change a legislatively established model that has been working for 7-8 years is something that we simply cannot afford. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u196	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? [[National Representative Magdalena Tasheva wants the floor.]] You don't have time. Any other speeches? [[Relations from the People's Representative Magdalena Tasheva.]] Do you have a line? You have spoken, how many times will you speak? Twice? You spoke, Mrs. Tasheva, in the beginning. You spoke in the beginning! [[Noise and lines.]] If anyone else in your group wants to come in. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will try to be brief because we have had this discussion and we continue to conduct it for almost two hours. From everything we have heard, including opposition colleagues' arguments, I see nothing that cannot be corrected between first and second readings. And colleagues of the opposition had some arguments that we will take into account between first and second readings and our colleagues from the Reformation bloc in the same way. However, I would like to draw attention to how today's proposals for a change in the Energy Act and the Renewable Energy Act came about. It became possible, in fact, was dictated after another change in the Energy Act, which we made a few weeks ago. We then allowed the regulator, at its discretion, to extend the deadline for adopting new decisions on new prices by one month. Then the opposition criticised us for not making sense of this one month extension if we do not do anything in this month and if we do not change the baseline data with which the SVR is working within one month, then the decision will be the same and in this sense there is no logic from the delay. By the way, I myself, as well as some of my colleagues, were opposed to delaying the regulator's decision by one month, because we believe that this decision is balanced, the model is balanced. We still believe that the model is balanced, but after discussing with the government and discussing certain ideas, we have decided to make additional legislative changes with which, on the one hand, to cut costs and, on the other hand, to increase revenue. The increase in revenues is with the Fund in question, which collects 5% of all electricity producers. The cuts in expenditure are regarding checks by the Agency for State Financial Inspection, removing double funding of projects, once funded by the European Commission, a different policy in terms of hours above 1250. In this sense, these measures are necessary in order to be able to really give the regulator different output data that it applies in the model and gets a possible different outcome. The main criticism from the opposition now is why we are in a hurry. We're in a hurry because July 30 is in two weeks. We're in a hurry because we're limited within a month. We are in a hurry, because if we fail in this month or, more precisely, we fail by July 24th next week, to publish the amendments to the Bill in this or modified form, we will indeed have failed by giving a one-month period for further changes to the Energy Act and the Renewable Energy Act, which may be the goal of some of our opposition colleagues. But I want to tell you clearly from now on, before the vote at first reading that this will not happen. We will really ask for a three-day cut of the deadline, but we will do so after holding an extraordinary meeting of the Energy Commission. In this sense, I declare that I will take a procedure after the rest vote to hold an extraordinary meeting of the Commission and to bring the two bills together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u198	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u199	Mr. Dobrev, honourable colleagues! The stated purpose of this Bill cannot be filled with the texts you are proposing. You are well concerned that NEK should be adequately compensated and fully compensated for the costs incurred under non-market conditions, determined under the Energy Act as a cost of public debt. Only behind this perverse euphemism lies the obligation of all consumers to ultimately pay the overprofits of so-called foreign investors, provided with long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity or the availability of preferential prices. And that is exactly what you exclude from the obligation to bear the 5 percent new energy tax. That's not gonna happen. It's ridiculous, it's ridiculous. NEC, ESO, state-owned enterprises that are victims of these corruption contracts to pay for their own rescue. We believe that, if such a tax is imposed, such a charge should be excluded from it the state-owned enterprises nuclear power plant "Kozloduy," TPP "Maritsa East," NEK, ESO. Then again, it comes down to what we proposed in the last term: 20% tax to the slicks who are over-earned by the long-term purchase of electricity. Moreover, no one is obliged to comply with the fact that you have set such a short moratorium on prices of one month. Remember, we advised you to impose a six-month moratorium, then a three-month one? You've decided in a month. This is an unreal deadline to clarify the robberies and block the holes, or, if you will, the locks from which energy is drained. In the end, this Law will not contribute... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Only 15 seconds! This Law will not contribute to the rescue of NEK, but in any event will contribute to the even greater drain of the NPP [[Noise in the room.]] Besides, if you're really concerned about NEK, please return of that 16 billion a billion...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u201	... which the state owes to NEK for the Tsank Stone!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u202	Thank you. [[(Comments from GERB: We? Why us?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u203	You're running the country!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u204	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u205	The one-month deadline will be enough and it will become clear as soon as next week. Six months delaying the decision means six months the National Electricity Company, for which you are so fiercely struggling and rightly enough to accumulate debts of tens of millions per month, i.e. for the six-month period probably hundreds of millions additional. With regard to your other arguments, currently with the proposals submitted at first reading, the ECO will not pay a 5% fee because it is not a power producer, it is a transport undertaking. However, it is possible between first and second readings to come up with proposals to expand the basis of companies that will contribute the 5% contribution in question. So you plead to exclude state-owned enterprises from paying a contribution to this Energy Security Fund. If you remember your proposal in the previous National Assembly, which you also quoted just now, which imposed a 20% fee, fell into the Constitutional Court for two reasons. One of them is that it is discriminatory that it is not taxation of all producers, but taxation of only one type or another. The second argument of the Constitutional Court, as I recall, was that there was no service against this fee. In this case, it is not a charge but a contribution to the Energy Security Fund, i.e. there is not supposed to be a service against that fee, on the one hand. On the other hand, all electricity generation is taxed at the same percentage, regardless of which is the undertaking producing that electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u206	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Will other MPs participate in the debate?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u207	I won't, I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u208	The debate is closed, we're going to vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 554-01-124, submitted by the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. Vote 150 MPs: 107 against 33, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I put to the first vote a bill supplementing the Energy Act, No 554-01-126, submitted by the MPs Dimitar Tanev, Martin Dimitrov and Nayden Zelenogorski. Vote 150 MPs: 131, against 10, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u209	Thank you, Madam President. I ask you to put to the vote the procedure for extending the working hours of today's plenary session until the debate on this matter is concluded. 3 and the vote on the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u210	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal to extend the time of today's plenary session until the debate is concluded and the vote on this. 3 on the agenda for today, namely the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions. Vote 138 MPs: 102, against 25, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Break till 4:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u211	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our work. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Before we go to the intended point in our program, allow me to read you a message: Today, 14 July 2015, it was received and is to be distributed to the MPs A general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Energy Act adopted on the first vote on 14 July 2015. The project was drawn up by the Energy Commission on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. Moving on to: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR LEGISLATION, No 502-01-47. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2015. The report of the Committee on Health will introduce us to the President of the Commission, National Representative Daniela Daritkova. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u212	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I give your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 502-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2015. At its regular meeting on 25 June 2015, the Health Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Health Dr. Petar Moskov, Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Vanyo Sharkov, Dr. Boyko Penkov, Dr. Adam Persenski, national consultants in various medical specialties, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health, of patient, trade union, employers' and other NGOs. The bill and its motives were presented by the Minister of Health. He introduced the MPs to the main proposals in it. First of all, changes to the regulatory mechanism for the establishment and updating of the National Health Card are envisaged to determine and plan on a territorial basis the needs of the population of accessible outpatient and hospital medical care. In the areas in which the number of beds for hospital treatment exceeds the specific needs of the number of beds per species defined by the National Health Card, the National Health Insurance Fund (HIF) to conclude contracts with hospital care establishments selected by criteria and by order defined by a regulation of the Minister of Health. Next, the Bill provides that the centers of transfusion haematology, emergency care centres, medical care homes that carry out medical supervision and specific care for children and complex services for children with disabilities and chronic diseases are subject to compulsory accreditation. For other types of medical establishments, accreditation will be mandatory only if the medical establishment plans to conduct training for students and residents. The introduction of mandatory accreditation of those medical establishments aims to improve the quality of the health services they provide. The Minister of Health also stressed on the proposed requirement of 1 January 2017 for a positive accreditation assessment which would be a mandatory condition for the conclusion of a contract between hospital care facilities and the National Health Insurance Fund. The Bill also aims to establish a legal regulation of the possibility for medical institutions to establish associations under Chapter 18th, Section I of the Commercial Law (consortiums) in order to conclude a medical aid contract with the NHIF. The medical establishments included in these associations will not be able to conclude independently contracts with the public fund. In his exhibition, the Minister of Health noted the proposal concerning the medical care provided by the NHIF, socially significant diseases for the treatment of which the NHIF to conclude contracts only with medical institutions or with their associations that have provided their complex treatment. Getting a complex medical service from the patient is intended to provide each individual part of the overall treatment process, thus spending budgetary resources on the treatment of the disease and not individual fragments of the patient. In addition, it was noted that the Bill provides for an opportunity to provide complex medical treatment by: infusion or merger of medical institutions, associations of medical institutions based on functional union contracts, or participation in consortiums. The Minister of Health indicated the proposed removal of medical establishments from the List of Commercial Companies with more than 50 percent state participation in capital or parts thereof under art. 3, para. 1 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, which are not declared privatized. Next, the proposed legal regulation of a new type of medical establishment under art. 5, para. 1 of the Law on Hospitals, a Center for Complex Service of Children with Disabilities and Chronic Diseases, to be created and financed by the state. The proposal is aimed at providing complex medical services to children with disabilities and support to their families, and is in implementation of the National Strategy for Deinstitutionalization of Children in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Minister of Health informed the MPs and the amendments to the Health Act provided for in the Draft Law with a view to regulating integrated health and social services in the community to be provided in support of pregnant women, children, elderly people, persons with disabilities and chronic diseases. Both principled support and disagreement with regard to certain parts of the bill were expressed in written and oral opinions by both opinion, patient and non-governmental organizations and made specific recommendations for changes to the bill. In the context of the discussion, MPs expressed principled support, criticised and stated their intention to make corrections to specific texts in order to clarify the legal framework and to comply with the various participants in the meeting. Representatives of separate parliamentary groups disagreed with the proposed privatisation of medical institutions by the importer. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions, No 502-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u213	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u214	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have waited for the opinion of the leading Commission to be presented, but we still do not see here a representative of the government, especially the Minister of Health. The Law under discussion is one of the key elements in his reform. Maybe he's on his way, but let him be specifically invited, because I think that without his presence, it is not right to discuss this important issue. From him, we need to hear if he is no longer behind some of the proposals made. If he believes that, since it is not certain that it will proceed to the sale of hospitals, he may already have been disinterested by the Bill, I do not know, but whatever the answer, this discussion cannot be held without the Minister of Health. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, invite Minister Moskov to attend. It might even be appropriate to take a short break until it does. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Why are you worried? The people of today's date many years ago have broken down the Bastille, and today you are worried that someone may break down a quorum! You decide how to continue the discussion from now on. In any case, urge Minister Moskov to attend the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u215	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. The Minister is invited, even in the Assembly building. All we have to do is invite him in. I think he's been listening to you. I'm joining your appeal to come to the court. A declaration on behalf of a group? Here you go. National Representative Valeri Simeonov for a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, its Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u216	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As the talking Mr. Stoilov said before, today's date is linked to the Bastille attack. However, this date coincides with a very sad, tragic date from Bulgarian history and as Bulgarian Parliament and Bulgarian MPs, we must give and give further due to these significant historical dates of our history. The declaration is dedicated to the massacre in the village of Lubenova neighborhood in 1877. On today's July 14th, 138th anniversary of one of the ugliest and scariest events in the years of Turkish slavery, the mass extermination of Bulgarians from the Ottoman Empire. The massacre in the New Zagora village of Lyubenova, which took place today in 1877. More than two thousand Bulgarians were killed in the village by the forces of the regular Turkish army, Bashibozuk and Cherkezi. The village was surrounded by numerous Turkish troops and stormed with several cannons under the leadership of Shevket Pasha. The reason for this was an insufficient ransom, requested by local Turkish peasants to spare a common practice in the Ottoman Empire during the war. The army, along with the Cherkezi and the Bashibozucs, numbers 1500 people. Like Batak, the Bulgarians, many of whom were from the neighboring villages, hid in the church in the hope that the Turks would fear God's punishment and would not harm their lives in the temple. The space around the church was barricaded with ox cars and handy materials. First, the enslavers have gathered ransoms for the lives of the people in the courtyard, but since they have proved insufficient for many of the surrounded ones, they have begun to attack the church itself. Only 1013 people were killed in the church yard. There was a break-in at the door and a methodical killing of women, children and old men hiding in the church. Some, fortunately, have been saved, and their stories paint this sad and scary picture. One Turkish officer and four Cherkys with guns pulled out, stood at the door, through which they brought out the living one by one. Each of them was thoroughly searched for money and jewelry and who had something saved so far had been released after they took away all his wealth. The rest of them were killed. After the killings, the Turks and the Cherkes robbed the church itself, stealing chandeliers, silver icons and everything else that had any value. It was only on the third day of July 16th that the English, Austrian and French consuls arrived from Plovdiv, together with Reuf Pasha, to check the case of mass murder. During the inspection between the dead, neither comets nor so dangerous blonds, only ordinary peasants, defenseless men, women and children. The comers ordered the burial of the dead to begin. All the bodies were dumped in large excavated dens and buried with dirt. So to this day, at every excavation of the earth in the area around the church temple, the bones of the buried appear in the light to recall this barbaric act. Today, the inhuman cruelty of the slaves of the Bulgarians in the village of Lyubenova neighborhood, Novozagorsko, cannot be justified by anything and should never be forgotten, but on every occasion be condemned the atrocity shown. By the way, this cruelty is the same as it was shown to Muslim residents in the village of Srebrenica 20 years ago. But there's no Bill Clinton, no Madeline Albright, no Ahmed Dogan, no other official. They also do not come to Batak, to Bulgaria and to the hundreds and thousands of villages, neighborhoods and towns, some of which unfortunately disappeared forever from the map of Bulgaria. That is why it is outrageous that the self-proclaimed Movement for Rights and Freedoms in our country is howling to the heavens for the victims of the Bosnian village, and does not utter a word about the exact same mass murders committed on religious grounds by the Ottomans in our land. [[National representatives of the DPS have left the Chamber.]] In this Parliament, the DPS, excuse the dupuses, as it is pronounced here, by this tribune, does not accept the historical facts proving the genocide over the Armenian people, and will not hear about the genocide over the Bulgarian people, performed five centuries by barbarians enslavers. We call on you, the people's chosen, to do this and to accept the Declaration tabled on 30 April 2015 by the Patriotic Front, condemning the destruction of the Bulgarians during the Ottoman Empire. I also call on the Holy Synod of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church to canonize the victims martyrs of Lubenova neighborhood. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u217	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Come in, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u218	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 80, para. 1 sentence third, the deadline for proposals under the joint bill, which you announced just now, will be reduced to three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u219	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev in the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes to be three days. They voted 99 MPs: for 71, against 4, abstention 24. The proposal is accepted, the deadline is three days. Any other procedures? Declaration, statement? I won't. We can move on to the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, and it will be presented to you by the President of the Commission Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u220	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 502-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2015. At its regular meeting on 1 July 2015, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions. The meeting was attended by Dr. Adam Persenski, Deputy Minister of Health, Emil Karanikolov, Executive Director of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency, representatives of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Industrial Association. The bill presented by Deputy Minister Adam Persenski provides for changes in the regulatory mechanism for the establishment and updating of the National Health Card to determine and plan on a territorial basis the needs of the population of available outpatient and hospital medical care. It is also envisaged that the centres of transfusion haematology, emergency care centres, homes for medical and social care, which carry out medical supervision and specific care for children, and centres for complex services to children with disabilities and chronic diseases are subject to compulsory accreditation. The possibility to establish consortiums for the purpose of concluding a medical aid contract with the National Health Insurance Fund is explicitly regulated. The establishment of a new kind of medical establishment under art. 5, para. 1 of the Law on Hospitals "Center for Complex Service of Children with Disabilities and Chronic Diseases." In the area of competence of the Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism, the amendment to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, excluding medical institutions from the List of Commercial Companies with more than 50 per cent State participation in capital or parts thereof which are not declared to be privatisation, falls within the competence of the Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism. In their written opinion of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency, they point out that the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act is a special Law which regulates relations between entities regarding the privatisation of state and municipal property included in its scope. Therefore, the systematic place of the provisions relating to the privatisation of medical institutions, regardless of their specifics, is in the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, and not in another law. The proposed bill completely contradicts the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act and does not achieve the objective of the Law, namely transparency, publicity and clear regulation of the privatisation process. During the discussion, the people representative Cornelia Nino expressed his opinion that there is no clarity on how decisions will be made when there is mixed ownership of state and municipal property, even more so if the state has a minority package. On behalf of the importers, it was claimed that the texts concerning the privatisation of medical institutions will be withdrawn between the first and second votes of the Bill. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 502-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u221	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. The report of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee will introduce us to her chairman Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 502-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2015. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting, held on 1 July 2015, examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions with an importer of the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Dr. Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Dr. Boyko Penkov, who outlined the main points provided for in it. First of all, changes are proposed in the regulatory mechanism for the establishment and updating of the National Health Card to determine and plan on a territorial basis the needs of the population of affordable outpatient and hospital medical care. The requirements for the content of the district health cards should also be changed, which should reflect both the current state of medical care and contain data on demographic structure, morbidity by disease and age groups and hospitalized morbidity of the population in the area. Regional committees are given the opportunity to participate in the process of planning the number of beds for hospital treatment and to express an opinion on the specific needs of medical professionals, the need for restructuring of medical institutions, as well as the provision of a specific type of care in the area concerned. Another major focus is the introduction of a requirement that centers for transfusion haematology, emergency care centres, homes for medical and social care, where medical supervision and specific care for children are carried out, and centres for complex services to children with disabilities and chronic diseases are subject to compulsory accreditation. For the other types of medical establishments, accreditation will be mandatory only if the medical establishment intends to conduct training for students and residents. The Bill also regulates the possibility for medical institutions to establish associations with each other in order to conclude a contract for medical care with the National Health Insurance Fund (HIF). It is envisaged that the medical establishments involved in these associations are not able to enter into contracts with the NHIF on their own. It is proposed that the medical aid set out in the basic package socially significant diseases The casata should conclude contracts only with medical institutions or with their associations that have provided complex treatment for these diseases. The aim is for patients with socially significant diseases to receive a complex medical service and for NHIF to pay for the treatment of the disease and not for individual fragments. The project enables this goal to be achieved not only through the infusion or merger of medical institutions, but also through their associations through functional alliances or participation in consortiums. The project proposes to abolish the ban on the privatisation of medical establishments with more than 50 percent state or municipal participation in capital or parts thereof within the meaning of the Privatization Act and post-privatization control, which are not declared privatized. The establishment of a new kind of medical establishment is proposed.. Center for complex service of children with disabilities and chronic diseases. The Centre is intended to carry out activities aimed at supporting the families of children with disabilities with regard to early and subsequent diagnosis, preparation of a treatment plan and follow-up of the child's condition. The Center will provide long-term treatment and appropriate medical and psychosocial rehabilitation, without allowing institutionalization of care for children. Visits to health care professionals in a home environment will also be carried out in support of families. If necessary, the Centre will provide specialized medical care for children with disabilities raised in social services of a resident type, palliative care will also be provided. The financing of the medical establishment will be carried out by the state budget. The bill also provides for regulation of integrated health and social services, including in a home environment, in support of pregnant women, children, people with disabilities and chronic diseases and elderly people. In this way, the necessary legal basis is created to implement the adopted National Strategy for Long-term Care, which aims to promote the interaction between health and social services in relation to certain groups of the country's population. Integrated services will be provided by municipalities, medical establishments, as well as individuals registered under the Commercial Law, and legal persons who have a license issued and are registered in the register of social service providers. During the discussion, the MPs, members of the Commission, expressed their opinion that the proposed changes to the National Health Card will improve the vision not only for the current state of health care in Bulgaria, but will also target investments to places where there is a deficit of a certain type of medical services. It was stressed that the health card should be implemented under the conditions of demonopolision. A positive opinion was expressed on the establishment of the Center for Complex Service of Children with Disabilities and Chronic Diseases, which is in line with the reform of institutional care for children. Critical remarks were made regarding the envisaged privatisation of medical institutions and regarding the fact that the proposals of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria for changes in some texts have not been taken into account. After the end of the discussion and voting with results:......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support the bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions with an importer of the Council of Ministers in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u223	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Come in for a statement on behalf of a group, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I would like to categorically distinguish myself and reproach Mr. Simeonov for the ugly parallel he made just now in this Chamber. We're alive, Mr. Simeonov. We empathize with all pain and suffering, no matter when it happened, with all the cruelty history tells us. With that in mind, we strongly condemn the unfortunate parallel and association that you inspire from this sacral tribune. Do you think we're afraid of you? We often do not respond to your provocations. There's no such thing! The history of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms disproves, if you have such doubt, that doubt. What is the reason why you are angry with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms all the time, its voters and generalized them all in these goals? Apart from hatred, and it, as the people say, has no contact with intelligence, what's the other reason?! As for the DPS, your hatred, you should know it's our privilege. [[Replying in PF.]] This profile and your attitude are a resource for us. In a pejorative aspect, we should even be grateful to you because opposition and hatred are an instrument in the hands of politicians, but if we are wise and if we use this resource in an intelligent way, we must not succumb to this temptation. An additional catalyst is your arrogant attitude and the unpardonable style of speaking against the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[Replying in PF.]] This further unites and consolidates our electorate. There's no doubt about that! We will see a sea of sorrow and hopelessness on October 25th in your eyes when you see this fact! We do not need to say anything else about the campaign, except videos and quotes from your speeches from this tribune. It's enough for our election meeting to say after that: "Have a good evening! The voter knows who to vote for! [[Replying in PF.]] DPS is an experienced party, Mr. Simeonov. Don't underestimate us! [[Replying in PF.]] We are a wise party because we draw wisdom from our voter. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Many parties underestimated us. I can quote them, and now they're in political nothingness. Why do you think a permanent third political force in these 25 years is exactly the Movement for Rights and Freedoms?! [[Noise and line in PF.]] The first and second always change, but the third is constant as a position. [[Replying in PF.]] Answer that question yourself. The DPS cannot be surrounded by a factor. By the time you say the sentence, the DSS is surrounded by a factor, you will get a pat in the back and the DPS will have already surrounded you. [[Laughter in PF.]] Don't forget that! And finally, you know, while our first name is the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[PEOPLE PLAYING]] The second is love and respect. Love for our voter, respect for the system democratic Euro-Atlantic parties. We have a third name. It's wisdom and patience. Wisdom because we have wise leaders and wise voters and patience because patience is the second name of politics. Patience, by the way, is the second and the second of the man. This political phenomenon exists only in politics. A political force is dead long before the symptoms occur. We think of you as a transitional political formation. We do not think of you as a political force with any future horizons in Bulgarian political life. You are, in fact, some political puppies who have fallen on the Prime Minister's wide backs, but when there is danger of tearing his raincoat, he will kick you out. Be sure of that! [[Replying in PF.]] I'm very concerned about the fate of my country when I see what kind of people rule it, but I know that God is...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u225	Bulgarian!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u226	...wise! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the DPS. People's representative Valeri Simeonov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u227	Mr. Simeonov's personal explanation. You've addressed Mr. Simeonov too personally. He had a statement on behalf of a group, and you mentioned Mr. Simeonov many times. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u228	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! With deep gratitude, I would like to take my right to a personal explanation because no one has given such a long plea to my humble personality. In my speech, I did not allow myself to address anyone personally. All this time, talking about love, excellence, experience and whatnot, about your party, you were actually handing out personal qualifications! Is this your love? Are you going to talk about hate, too?! Hate. So your whole statement, your whole statement, was filled with anger, hatred, incontinentness. I'm sorry to have to say this, but these are the facts. And a lot of pettyness! A lot of pettyness and a lot of malice! How else can your language be qualified in what other words?! You who speak accuse others of the language of hate. In your dictionary we have heard the patio, standing in the back, someone's raincoat. And you know, I don't think this is about political hatred. We're just talking about low culture here! [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u229	Colleagues, we're moving on to the reports. Some of them we've already heard. We will now hear the report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u230	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister! Our regular meeting was on June 18th in the presence of Peter Moskov, Minister of Health. Here are the basic principles on which the Law is based. I'm not reading them. I'm guessing the colleagues from the committee in charge did it. We believe that this bill regulates the possibility for medical institutions to form associations with each other in order to conclude medical aid contracts. On the other hand, it is envisaged that the medical establishments included in these associations should not be able to enter into separate contracts with the NHIF. The aim of this proposal is for patients with socially significant diseases to receive a complex medical service. The project enables this objective to be achieved not only through the infusion or merger of medical institutions, but also through their associations, a contract for functional associations or participation in a consortium. It is proposed that the ban on privatization should be abolished - a topic that is clearly widely commented, the creation of a new kind of medical facility.................................................................................. The Commission was given an opinion by the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressing some principled disagreements with certain provisions of the Bill and making concrete proposals for changes in individual texts. It seems to me that between first and second readings it is best to carefully monitor this. During the discussion, the MPs expressed their principled support for the majority of the proposed changes, paying attention to the need for better regulation of the conditions and arrangements for privatization of medical institutions. With 9 votes in favour, 3 votes against the Council of Ministers and 1 vote abstention is proposed to the National Assembly The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions, submitted by the Council of Ministers to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u231	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. We also have to hear the report of the Commission on interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Mrs. Marinska will brief us on the summary of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u232	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! May I have your attention, please? ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 502-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2015. At its regular meeting held on 18 June 2015, the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and Citizens' Complaints discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 502-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2015. The meeting was attended by Dr. Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister of Health, Ms. Polina Dencheva, expert at the Department of Legal Affairs of the Ministry of Health. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Dr. Penkov. The reasons for the bill were that changes were proposed in the regulatory mechanism for the establishment and updating of the National Health Card to determine and plan on a territorial basis the needs of the population of available outpatient and hospital medical care. The second main focus is the opportunity given to the National Health Insurance Fund for the selection of medical institutions with which it can enter into a contract. During the National Health Fund is determined the minimum number of beds in hospitals that accept people with basic diseases, beds for continued treatment and rehabilitation. On this basis, in the presence of quality assessments for infrastructure and human staff and by criteria made, the National Health Insurance Fund will be able to assess with precisely which hospitals to enter into a contract to cover the needs of people in the field. Mandatory accreditation shall also be introduced. This becomes a mandatory act when a hospital wants to enter into a contract with the National Health Insurance Fund. Thus, the Cashier will ensure to people, to us as patients, that it has actually concluded a contract with medical institutions that have previously been evaluated to them has been fully evaluated, and that they meet all the quality and safety requirements that they can provide to patients. New conditions are also being created for the construction of health hospital networks. The next focus of the proposed changes is the lifting of the ban on privatization of hospital care facilities. The privatisation of medical establishments which are state or municipal property is envisaged after a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Agriculture. A new kind of medical establishment is being established.. Center for complex service of children with disabilities and chronic diseases. So far, this has been done by children's homes for medical care. This establishment is intended to carry out activities aimed at supporting the families of children with disabilities in relation to early and subsequent diagnosis, preparation of a treatment plan and follow-up of the child's condition. The Center will provide long-term treatment and appropriate medical and psychosocial rehabilitation, without allowing institutionalization of care for children. During the discussion, the MPs, members of the Commission, expressed their opinion that the essential thing in this bill is the National Health Card, which will determine not only the current picture of health care in Bulgaria, but will also help the state invest in the places where there is a deficit of a certain type of medical services. In this way, there will be a level playing field between the access of Bulgarian citizens to medical care. The national health card is not a new concept, but it must be filled with the necessary content in order to achieve the objectives of the distribution of medical institutions so that the imbalance available at the moment begins to gradually decrease. A positive opinion was expressed in relation to the creation of a new type of health care facilities "Center for complex services of children with disabilities and chronic diseases." At the moment, a large number of homes are left with seriously ill children who are having difficulties in getting into another environment because their care is very specific. The bill generally complies with the intention of restructuring the health system so that the medical relevance and care of the patient can be led by the latter being placed at the centre of the system. On the basis of the discussion and after a vote, the Committee on Synergy with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints with 10 Voices...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. On behalf of the Member of Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u234	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The presidents of several committees have pointed out the main things in the Bill, I would just like to say two highlights. One is the health card. That is to say, the introduction of order, forecastability, sufficientness and financial sustainability of our hospital care system................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This really brings the hospital care system back a little bit less to some level. The second important thing, in order not to repeat things that have been said so far, are the two new types of health care facilities for the complex service of children with disabilities and the regulation of integrated health and social services in the community. These are, in fact, legal regulations on legalization literally, once, of the Strategy for Deinstitutionalization and, the second time, the National Development Program and the functional Strategy for Long-term Care associated with it. These are also requirements of our European partners in relation to all the funding we receive in the process of deinstitutionalization. The third thing I would like to draw attention to is, in fact, the chapter that deals with dropping the ban on privatisation. Once again, each of the MPs present already knows at a meeting of the Conference of Presidents where, together with Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin, we have sought support on certain points, I have declared that I have a clear understanding that at the moment, both the MPs of the majority and the opposition, this is controversial and unacceptable, would hinder, delay or delay the adoption of the important texts that we are talking about now. And there, and once again, I support this so that there is no doubt and that the debate in this direction does not deviate from the representatives of the government during the debates between first and second readings we will not support this, nor will we seek any kind of support for this chapter. I mean, her time has to come next, at another time. I'm still convinced of some motives. I would just like to tell you that during my meetings today with the district governor of Sofia in connection with the new emergency services centers that we are going to make, I learned from him that the hospital in Botevgrad has already been privatized. That's the sort of thing, ladies and gentlemen! No one understood, no one heard, it's not clear what this thing is going to be. I mean, this process is ongoing. There will come a time when really clear, more clean, no doubt, such things will happen. [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] Oh, tell me. I figured it out today. [[Reply.]] What difference does it make?! Once again, I thank you and call on you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u235	Thank you, Minister Moskov. The debate is open. He was the first to sign up for a speech, Mr. Lachezar Ivanov. We're listening, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u236	Madam President, honourable Minister, colleagues, I would like to address you with the fact that we from the political party GERB will support the philosophy of this bill. It is in line with the Programme which was presented by 2020. Along with what I have shared, I would also like to draw attention to some conflicting texts in the bill, which I believe could be removed between first and second readings. To be specific, I will start with § 4, which talks about diagnostic consulting centres (PCCs), where they have the opportunity to reveal up to 5 additional beds. I appeal to you, Minister, and I would like to make a suggestion. I will also do it in writing that the disclosure of these 5 beds for carrying out clinical studies is a much more appropriate part of the clinical pathways that are in the hospital part, and when we talk about one-day surgery, they could safely switch to the diagnostic consulting centers that actually have this primary purpose. I believe that the mere expression "clinical research" suggests that clinical studies should be carried out in hospitals where an Ethics Committee is required, where a major researcher is required, and so on and so forth. I will move on to paragraphs 7, 36, 43 and 45. I would like to say that it absolutely does not correspond to the health reform that we are trying to implement, with the requirements for effective management of medical institutions, with effective management of both personnel and the full potential of a hospital. What's this about? I would like to say that the removal of the educational value and the possibility of everyone being able to be the head of a medical facility, hospital, DCC, I believe that it is not in line with European requirements. When we talk about hospitals and about a level of competence where we ask doctors to increase their specializations, to have the necessary equipment to enable the hospital to work more effectively, to contribute to a better medical service, I cannot agree that any requirements for the person who will manage the hospital will be removed. I believe that we also need to make the necessary adjustment here in order to be able to meet the high requirements and objectives that the 2020 Programme is putting in place in general for a modern reform. By § 11 I also have a certain remark, namely § 11, para. 3. There is a precise definition of complex medical care and legal definition. This is extremely important to be formulated because, on the basis of this medical care, we will accordingly give or take away the rights of certain medical institutions. Another of the problems I would like to put is the double standard that I notice in several paragraphs. In § 26, in art. 43 The surplus may be available in all hospitals and not only in hospitals. I would also say that this could also be in the hospital aid. This is also a contradiction. In § 32, para. Art. 5 and art. 41 Registration of medical establishments at a second or next address, or elsewhere, I believe that it is contrary in art. 40, para. 3 for registration in RZI. Mr. Minister, I am addressing you, and I would like to say that by allowing the registration of several medical establishments at different addresses, it will not reduce their number, and, on the contrary, we will open a new problem with the registration of a medical establishment with the relevant affiliates. Be assured that here private hospitals will immediately realize it with affiliates in different locations. In § 63, et seq. 4 and the creation of para. 13 in art. 59 We have different criteria for the conclusion of contracts with the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF).................................................................................................. It is unacceptable for various medical institutions. There are two arrangements in parallel regulating the conclusion of contracts. This is with the NHIF under the National Framework Treaty in art. 53, para. 1 and from the Insurance Act the other option is given to the Minister. I'm going to end up with something I can't get past and it's extremely positive. I'd bravely say that's the health card and its mandatory character. This is extremely important, because with well and clearly set parameters and requirements for medical institutions and the creation of this health card we will have one backbone on which healthcare will be able to rest, but here, again, I say, the criteria must be clearly stated. One more remark. I believe that the mandatory health card should also include pharmacies as part of the healing process. You know very well that medical institutions.. each hospital has its function. I believe that here, in this health card, we also need to regulate the detection of pharmacies so that we can have a connectivity, a consistency in treating patients. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u237	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. After him at the time gave a statement Mr. Chakarov. Then I will alternate from different parliamentary groups, where there are more than one MP. We're listening, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u238	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues, as well as other bills, and the current ones could also look for good proposals, as well as controversial points. Unfortunately, the good proposals that can be discussed at second reading should be refined. I would like to draw attention to a few controversial moments at the first reading of the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions. First of all, these are the national health card and regional health cards. Although it is also highlighted as positive by the motives, as Mr. Minister Moskov presented them earlier in the press, and the award of high hopes, the obligation to have these cards exists in the current law, but there are no cards. It is now expected, as is at stake, to appear within 6 months of the adoption of the law, although this is a current text. The Ministry of Health has yet, within one month, will write methodologies to determine the specific needs of dentists, professionals in the professional field and in the different specialities of not listing everyone. What are the criteria on which the committees for drawing up these health cards will determine the required number of beds for hospital treatment, as well as needs, generally speaking, from doctors and specialists we do not know because they are not in the law? By the way, one of the reasons why we did not support the division of the packages in the Health Insurance Act was precisely because there were no clear estimates and no clear critical basis for what the basic and additional package included. The other reasons why we referred to the Constitutional Court are clear. At least basic principles should be in the law. In particular, the Law on Medical Institutions defines the need for restructuring of medical institutions or to take other measures to establish, close or optimize medical institutions is not even intended to have a methodology. Unfortunately, it is not also intended to prepare an assessment of the health needs of the population before the maps are drawn up, but is intended to make such an assessment only for new establishments and new medical activities and after the national health card is issued. It is precisely on the basis of this assessment that it should be assessed whether there is excess or shortage of hospital beds and that the assessment of the need for hospitals and activities, including the opening of new ones or the closure and restructuring of existing ones, should be made. Without such an initial assessment, it is debatable what precise analyses the committees will do and how relevant their conclusions and opinions will be. On the basis of these opinions, the committees will be privatized, opened, closed or restructuring hospitals and will determine where the limit of hospital beds is then NHIF will be able to choose which hospitals to conclude a contract with and with which hospitals not. In practice, this is another case in which Dr. Moskov the Minister of Health gives us a white sheet and makes us sign it with a promise of a bright future. The second problematic point that I would like to point out is that it is envisaged in areas where the number of beds for hospital treatment exceeds the specific needs of the number of beds by types defined by the National Health Card, the National Health Insurance Fund to conclude contracts with hospital care establishments or their associations selected by criteria and by order determined by a regulation of the Minister of Health. It is not right, honourable Members, for our citizens, for these criteria to be in a legislative act. They should be in law, so that there is no doubt about subjectivism in the preparation, their admission here in plenary and, above all, in their implementation. With regard to the privatization of the medical institutions, it is reasonable that the decision of the Ministry of Health after the protests of both the opposition and the parties of the ruling majority, such as GERB, the Patriotic Front, ABC to announce that it will not support these texts in discussing the bill. I would also like to emphasise another aspect of this case that the structural-determining hospitals are elements of national security and the possibilities for their privatisation, to put it mildly, are an irresponsible position. As a fourth problem I wanted to point out, but already Dr. Ivanov pointed out, for the managers of the medical institutions and the dropping of the requirement to be with health management, there is no way to support it. It is good for people who manage medical institutions to really have health management and to know in detail, basically, profoundly, meaningfully exactly what is being managed and managed. In view of the specifics, we believe that this text should be maintained. In fifth place, I would like to briefly point out that it can be pointed out at first glance as a positive moment the introduction of complex medical care for patients with certain diseases, for children with disabilities and chronic diseases, but unfortunately there is no legal definition, precisely for complex treatment. There is an attempt in § 65 to do so, but I believe that between first and second readings, if supported by the ruling majority of the ZID of the Law on Medical Institutions, this could be achieved, but in general we do not share the spirit and philosophy of the ZID of the Law on Medical Institutions, in view of which the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will not support this Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u239	- What's the line? I won't. [[Reply from Minister Petar Moskov.]] Two minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u240	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Most of the notes and proposals that have been made by Dr. Ivanov and Dr. Chakarov are meaningful, and between first and second readings can really be voted on and changed. It's the only thing I'd argue about. You're talking about objectivity, lack of subjectivity and criteria. We have a real problem and one of the objectives of this Law is to solve it, i.e. the amount of hospitals that are growing and not healthy to a good health result. There are no honourable doctors, any methodology, and any criterion that does not leave anyone, in each of us the feeling that this essentially quite difficult, slightly dirty operation that needs to be carried out in order to cleanse ourselves all together of the sins we have accumulated in time to be carried out. There will be no holy methodology on the basis of which the minister will not be charged with subjectivism. The question is: do we want to take this step and once and for all go with a system that is predictable and meets certain objectives, or are we really going to look for detail, objectivity to the end and leave things in the same state? Once again, if we have the willingness to walk this, to create a National Health Card and to give it the framework in which the hospital system can be expanded, we should not look for perfectionism in the assessment and in the criteria because it is impossible. We have to make the decision, and it's political, are we doing it or are we not doing it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u241	Thank you. On behalf of BSP left Bulgaria first is Mr. Raynov. Dr. Raynov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u242	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! We from BSP left Bulgaria have always believed that the changes in the health system should be implemented with the achievement of a preliminary national consensus between all politicians, experts and society, leading to one main goal of better health of the nation, as well as stability and forecastability of the health system. I am in a hurry to say at the very beginning that we will not support this bill and before we are accused of being stupid or maintaining the status quo, I will explain why we will not support it. This Law, fellow Members, has any of you been consulted on it since 1999, how many times has it been changed so far? Forty-one times, that's forty-two times.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u243	He can't be a champion, there are other laws...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u244	There are other champions, yes. The law has 118 articles, and currently changes are proposed literally to 61 members. Colleagues, the Council of Ministers should have sat down to write a whole new law. The original idea is so distorted that some of us hardly remember it. In this Bill there is neither financial justification nor impact assessment. I recall some statements from only the previous point, on a previous bill, how it was written on a knee, still there was no financial assessment, financial justification and so on. This bill, honourable Members, does not solve any of the cardinal problems of healthcare, and the cardinal problem is the effectiveness of the funds, how the funds are spent. I will briefly refer to some of the controversial moments that I have heard that colleagues from different political forces have also said them, that is, they also confirm what we say. Absurd is the infusion of mental health centers, complex oncology centers as wards in hospitals. In addition to limiting the rights of municipalities as property, there is another paradox. Municipal property is infused into a mixed company, at one point municipal property becomes larger, the state loses its property. [[Reply from Minister Petar Moskov.]] Something very important about some of these centres are equipped in the previous programming period with money from European programs, and at some point now because of the lack of sustainability someone will have to return money, funds. What's going on from here on out? As for the Health Card, the colleagues were detailed enough. Here again came the problem that was mentioned. On the one hand, the Cashier enters into a contract with the medical institutions on the basis of the future LDC, on the other hand, another mechanism for concluding a contract is obtained. The Minister determines by regulation the medical institutions where there is surplus, which and how they will enter into a contract. I wouldn't want to dwell on anything very important that it takes away the actual right of the payer, the health insurance, to choose where to treat, and the minister with a regulation will still determine it. Something very important. The requirements for directors of the medical institutions are only a requirement for completed master's degree. That's a very interesting thing. Perhaps someone's bench, which was advertised as very long, turned out to be very short, and I have highlighted myself by the reasons why this is being done for the wider circle of persons to occupy the posts, that is to say, welcome to all other magistrates, you are welcome to manage the medical institutions. We found out about the length of the medical bench, and it was years when doctors advised on national security prime ministers, they were chairmen of the arms committees at the Council of Ministers, but those were some other years. The Energy Committee... We're jumping over some small things, like canceling art. 91 to 93 "outpatient care centres" should be a place for specialization of colleagues in emergency medicine. How are we going to treat him? We're going further. The National Health Card Commission has a wide enough national representation, at one point two people from the Medical Union appear, why not three? In other words, there is still a slight distortion of accreditation, we welcome, but every one of us who has dealt with this is very clear to him that in one year all hospitals cannot pass through accreditation so that it can be put as a condition for a contract from 1 January 2017. I will not dwell on the well-known national agreement, the Stability Pact, in which we are once again trying with amendments to one bill to change a cardinal other bill. By the way, colleagues, don't forget, this is a second try. The first attempt was unsuccessful. He was in the Health Insurance Act, where he was practically rejected by everyone, but again we are trying through this Bill to change the next one again. He's probably connected...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u245	You voted for me! Didn't you just vote for the man?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u246	Of course, but I contradict that it is not administrative through one Bill to change another. Write a new Law on Drugs and go on. And now we're going, colleagues, to something very important. This is the National Health Card Commission, which offers the notorious alliances. I mean, on her proposal, it's suggested who will unite with whom. Henceforth, there is no record of what is the target: we will bring together equipment, equipment, footage, laboratories? At the same time, contrary to the newly adopted Health Insurance Act, art. 59, para. 1, t. 2 each participant must meet separately the conditions for entering into a contract, each individual must enter into a contract with the Cashier. Well, then why are we doing this unification? What's the target? Now to comment that the Casa Information System is so designed that it cannot account for unification, it has a reporting form from a hospital, payment by a reporting institution, fines and sanctions are also based on a medical establishment. Here I am not opening the clamp from the so-proclaimed unification of Sofia hospitals, what is the result, where is the effect of the saved millions? So far, as far as I know, there's only one newly appointed hat, some people who get paid. The result so far is zero. The complex treatment says that there is no such legal definition or are we going to change the Health Insurance Act again? Shorter, you institutions, don't you talk to each other, Mr. Minister, what I read to you so far was a comment from the National Health Insurance Fund? Isn't that where your director is? Isn't that where your deputies are? Didn't they tell you these problems before, so you wouldn't have to put on lipsticks and comment on them? Or are we gonna start talking about episodes of treatment, about meaningful and meaningless people and things? What about the movie you're putting us in right now? Or is chaos, muddy water, and fish important? Something very important that has been mentioned. The Ministry of Health has decreed... On the one hand, the leading of the entire bill is for us to limit hospital care where there is an excess. But at the same time, on the other side, we begin to allow the same hospital with a first address, a second address, a third address, a fourth address, a fifth address or a bit like the situation before the New Year with one hand, we banned the conclusion of the contracts with the Casata from 1 January, with the other signing going, walking, walking! Why in this bill, colleagues, once again there is nothing to control? Why, all the time, the minister and the head of the cassata said he didn't have controls, that he couldn't control what was happening in hospitals? Because that would give us the answer to that question: how, until 2009, with a 6% health contribution, did the Casa make a surplus each year, and since 2009, apropo and hospitals have had 39 million obligations, and since 2009, with an 8% health contribution, the Casa annually generates between 200 and 400 million deficits, hospitals have half a billion obligations, and patients are fewer? Why don't we focus there, finally prove what the efficiency of the money we're spending is? Naturally, I pass the famous cherry on the cake, which was introduced at the last minute, the Council of Ministers is the Chapter of Privatization, which neither went to public discussion, not to comment on the shorthand of the Council of Ministers... What, you're counting on people not remembering privatization, Balkan, Kremikovtsi? Let's not go any further. The famous term "the bad owner..." The country has had another owner for eight months. Why was this owner only on the eighth month, and it was good that it was the Health Commission to place this task, did the famous analysis, with which we all found with horror that healthcare in Bulgaria, colleagues, was practically bankrupt? There are only 11 hospitals that have no obligations and five of them are sanitariums. All the others who have huge debts, who is decapitalized. And yes, here quite rightly perhaps we should no longer be talking about privatisation, because after just a few more months of unhabbery management of state property, I think we will be talking about liquidation of Bulgarian healthcare. The story of how new investments would come in... Well, there's new investments coming in, new money coming in. In the report we saw in the Health Commission, it was very clear: the hospital's revenues increased by 10% each year, while their costs increased by 20%. Well, that equation would never come out. I personally do not understand how privatisation would improve the health performance of the nation or rather improve the financial situation of someone else? Finally, once again, the BSP will not support these and other things, the Bill. However, in us, honourable people, colleagues, there remains one curiosity: after the Prime Minister and the Minister's statement that the head will withdraw, how will the government vote now? Option one: they vote against the bill and blam the minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u247	There will be no second vote then.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u248	Option two: vote for the prime minister and blam the prime minister. Or is it option three: elegant, with disgust, to vote for.... and between first and second reading the Commission to rewrite the bill in full? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u249	- What's the line? I won't. Dr. Kovachka to speak. After her, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u250	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center has repeatedly stated a position in support of the health reform and has been constructively involved with its own proposals in the debates of the Health Commission on the bills in the sector. Indeed, the problems accumulated in the health system require non-alternative and relevant legal changes. However, we believe that to fully meet the requirements of the health system and people's expectations for more efficient and affordable healthcare, relevant changes to the proposed project are also needed. I will only refer to some of them, on which no consensus has been reached in the Commission's discussions and their hasty adoption can have serious and unpredictable consequences for the health system. First of all, this is the proposal for hospital privatization, a proposal whose only argument in support of the government's proposed motives to the Bill is the view that attracting private capital into hospitals that are part of the National Health Card, as are now existing hospitals, will limit the trend of creating a parallel network of private hospital care facilities. This is, of course, a logical paradox, creating private hospitals to limit the network of private hospitals?! Unfortunately, the other arguments in support of the privatisation proposal are similar. What about the proposal for the proceeds from the sale of municipal hospitals to take place in the municipal budget and to be allocated entirely to activities in the field of health? Where exactly will the health care money be transferred to a community when she loses her hospital? We do not seriously consider such proposals. The degree of importance of the whole society of the proposal for privatization of hospitals requires a very thorough legal, economic, health-economic and social analysis by relevant specialists and academics. Public discussion was required with all interested parties in order to drop the last doubts about compliance with ethical standards in privatisation, the danger of non-compliance with social commitments by new hospital owners and the loss of state control over health policy. We don't see any experience of that. Given the unpredictability of unlocking such a process at the moment, we will refrain from supporting the relevant texts. We are not entirely in favour of dropping the requirement that the management of the medical establishment have a specialty in health management. This reduces the role of hospital managers and can open a process of health management by unprepared specialists. With a health system working on the current model, it can only complicate the already poor condition of many hospitals. It is unacceptable, colleagues, to constantly increase the requirements for standards for the guides of clinical pathways and to reduce the requirements for people who are involved in managing the health system in Bulgaria. As an example, I will give the European Union in France there are special institutes that are involved in training managers. My question to Mr. Minister has been taken the opinion of the heads of the Faculty of Public Health and Health Management in Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, who so far have been involved in training such staff? Last but not least is a disturbing proposal found its place in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law, namely in § 63 concerning a change in the Health Insurance Act and a more precise change of art. 45, para. 10 whose amendment will legitimise the innovation of medicinal products with a new international non-proprietary name to conduct compulsory annual individual negotiations of concessions between the NHIF and holders of a marketing authorisation. This proposal was not accepted in the Health Insurance Act because it was submitted to the Commission without passing through the Council of Ministers. It's now in the Final Provisions. Since this is an extremely important problem concerning the control of the costs of financial resources for medicines that the NHIF pays, we believe it should be addressed in the Drug Act and there should be a sufficiently serious public discussion about this. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We hope for a continuation of a constructive and positive discussion on finding not only a compromise, but also the best solution on the controversial texts of the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions to achieve effective and affordable healthcare for all. Dear Mr. Moskov, we all know and I am firmly convinced that there must be changes to the Law. I admire you for the health card, but I hope that between first and second reading you will have a wider public discussion and we will hear academic circles as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u251	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kovachka. - What's the line? I won't. For the next speech there is the word the people representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! The situation is severe, and every doctor knows that the patient, in order to heal, must have a strong mood. After speaking only of doctors, I will allow myself a well-intentioned joke. I now feel like a performer on the stage of the Golden Orpheus who has to sing after Emil Dimitrov. [[Radio.]] Mr. Minister, the Patriotic Front will support this bill for several reasons. First of all, we have heard a clear confession from all those who have spoken that this Law has been changed over 40 times so far. This is clear evidence that, in fact, this Law never continues to work well. It is clear to everyone that change is needed. It is clear to everyone that this change must be clearly and understandablely explained. Of course, we cannot fail to take into account the good proposal in § 49, which for the first time regulates the workload of the medical staff working under the conditions of Article 49. 137 of the Labour Code, something that has not been done for years. In fact, it was an occasion to see overworked medical workers making, unfortunately, fatal mistakes, but no one took note of this workload. Here's a good thing about this bill. We can't help but support efforts to develop a National and Regional Health Card. But here I'm going to say something that my fellow MPs with doctoral titles won't like right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u253	Go, go, go!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u254	What am I gonna say? I'm going to say what's at stake as an idea for registration by regional health inspections of branches of medical institutions. What do I mean, dear Minister? In one part, we do analyses through these health cards, we need to assess the need or lack of a bed base, from medical institutions, and at the same time we open a door for registration of affiliates with which, naturally, once again, this is a purely medical establishment. However, these subsidiaries, which are thus enshrined in the Law, will be found, guess where? They will be found in large district cities. Come on now, why don't we think between first and second readings about these affiliates, for example, to open a subsidiary in the town of Malko Tarnovo? What is wrong with the Bulgarian-Turkish border to have a hospital in cardiology to create life in this settlement and to import foreign currency? This can only be done if the text in the Law is well refined. We will make an effort, I ask you, as a minister, and your team to also make an effort to make sense of this change. Believe me, then I would be very interested in how a fellow doctor will come out to criticize you. Privatization. Yes, we at the Patriotic Front have always stated a consistent position... everything that is useful, to support it, and everything that we believe is not good, we will not support it. It is no coincidence in the Health Committee that we have said that we are expressing our concerns. Why do we express our concerns? Because we still have a more pragmatic view of things. Yeah, it's very easy to say we're against privatisation, it's very easy to say we don't accept the working-manager model that's being introduced. It's very easy to keep the rest of this privatization quiet. Yes, we also disagree with this privatisation at the moment. To answer Mr. Raynov, there is a fourth option that will make the Patriotic Front. We will simply submit a proposal between first and second reading § 51 to be dropped. Why drop out? Because, Dear Minister, we believe that the National Health and Regional Health Cards must first be drawn up, to see what is the need and only then to proceed, in a very well drawn analysis. All the unspeakable ones kept the truth to themselves. For example, no one said what was going on at Raduntsi Hospital. Why doesn't anyone tell us what's going on at Raduntsi Hospital, which is power-absorbed, have virtually no activity? What are we doing with this building fund?! Should it be completely ruined and at some point someone buy it at a priceless price, or looking for the management approach where the fund will be sold at the most advantageous price possible. We also disagree with privatisation in this way because it is in violation of the Law. All financiers know that privatization funds can only go to one place, and this place is called a Silver Fund. We are obliged to return what is created by our mothers and fathers in the form of support for pensions. Just a few weeks ago here your colleague was convincing us about the huge deficit of the pension system, so there is something to think about as well. However, it must be very well analysed, backed up with very serious arguments and only then should it be approached. I, for example, do not mind that new capital be poured into the municipal hospital in Nova Zagora and serve a small part of the population. We need to say clearly and precisely that the huge problems are precisely in small towns. We need to stress that hospitals in municipal centers, especially small municipalities, have a social function, and they serve a huge part of the population, which is not able to travel to large centres. Naturally, I have expressed on behalf of the Patriotic Front and my disagreement about the annulment of Articles 91, 92 and 93 of the Law on Medical Institutions. Why have we expressed our disagreement? Because, honourable Members and Dear Minister, just a week ago we gave the opportunity to open branches at Southwestern University, at Veliko Tarnovo University for training staff, but we also have to think about how these staff will increase their qualifications. It is Articles 91 and 92 that make it possible to increase the qualification in emergency medical care and to improve the qualification in other specialties. How can we seek quality medical service when we cut off our doctors' ability to increase their qualifications?! Article 93 regulates the financing of these activities to improve qualification. I am sure that you and your team, as reasonable people, will take into account our comments, because they are for the good of the healthcare system and most importantly for the good of the Bulgarian patient! A lot of things can still be said, but I'm gonna end it here. I think a lot of things have been said. I repeat: we from the Patriotic Front will support the Bill, and between first and second reading we will submit our proposals. One of them will be for dropping § 51, which means stopping the privatisation, because I said and I am sure that you will agree to a detailed analysis which must be subject to the functioning of the National and Regional Health Cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u255	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev. Here you go, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we will support some of the details in the Bill you are proposing. But, as Dr. Chakarov said, the philosophy and concept of this Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions is not in line with the part of our platform concerning health care, and therefore this cannot be expected from us. Moreover, after that political blunder with privatization and this epic that happened in the Council of Ministers at the time of the adoption of the urgent bill, I admitted, dear Minister, that... [[Mister Petar Moskov spoke with the MP Georgi Kuchukov.]] I'll wait.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u257	Docent Kuchukov, if you please, you are listed for speaking!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u258	...I allowed after the gaff which happened to the topic of privatisation that it was possible that the Ministry of Health after a short period of time even if there was a new minister and ended this chaos, the pile of loose ideas, the lack of a systematic approach, and also the unprincipled and aimless solutions. Let him come, I said to myself, a more capable and more consensual man. In the CBI, obviously these people after Ilko Semerdzhiev are rare, but in other parties the ruling party has them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u259	Stop bragging, we're already ashamed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u260	Obviously, in politics, the disproportionate vote of the electorate is doomed to a complete fiasco in terms of reforms. These unconsidered proposals in the Law on Medical Institutions, presented for reforms, have finally confirmed our belief that populism rules in the Ministry of Health at the expense of creativity. Starting from that time with the politically incorrect expression in the debut of Mr. Minister, we go through the bulk ideas, the vicious Health Insurance Act and we come today to the Law on Medical Institutions, created on the principle of error, and waiting for a second reading third or fourth version, this opinion regarding our assessments is confirmed. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u261	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u262	The law covers a small part of the decisions that must be adopted in our view. His most important feature is the lack of systematic approach. I repeat this several times because we are firmly convinced of the leading line in this bill. That's what makes it ineffective, that's what makes it useless! He is in full tune with the Minister's promiscuously shared media ideas, they are many. I will start with the idea for the nine months to create competing health funds, eliminate NHIF, basic package in the NSI, eliminate commercial companies, further the drop-out of paper fields, the new ambulances, the harmful food regime, the reorganization of TELK and so on, to the latest ideas for the liquidation of pharmacies chains, privatization of hospitals, government employees who are twice the minimum wage total contribution, an additional rest day for preventive reviews and so on, and so on, this Bill is in full harmony with these ideas precisely. And in this Law, the leading approach is in line with the command-administrative model, which has been established for 8 months at the Ministry of Health. And now there was no public discussion like with the Health Insurance Act. The first version of the Law was changed to 50% the day before its approval by the Council of Ministers and was therefore not made available to anyone. He met a serious resistance from the Ministry of Finance in the face of the Minister and only the generosity of the Prime Minister brought this bill into this House. He did not consult either the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria or the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. I stress this because in recent years we have seen that every factor in the Ministry of Health sooner or later realizes that an individual cannot reform a conservative system such as healthcare. The insatiable pursuit of concentration of power is designed here as well. There have been many examples so far. I will quote a few of them a statement setting out the basic and additional package issued by the Minister, the nationalisation of the Supervisory Board, the civil society, the merger of the nine university hospitals, which some called the Medical Academy or Sofia Holding, the central body for public procurement organisation, called appropriate by some Central Pharmacies and several other regulations in the Health Insurance Act. In support of this about command-administrative style, in this bill there are also such ideas that concentrate power. I quote in total 5 regulations, some of which are new, which will issue the Minister of Health, namely: in art. 6, para. Art. 2, Art. 31, para. Art. 3, Art. Art. 34a, Art. 125d, para. 1 of the Health Act, and Art. 45, para. 9 of the Health Insurance Act. Also under orders or orders in art. 30, para. Art. 1, art. 30, para. Art. 4 and art. 33, para. 1. It's the focus of unemployable power. Moreover, this is an attempt to replace, including the legislative function of the National Assembly. This is unacceptable to us and, therefore, the spirit of the Law, we believe, is corrupted. Here we include the health card committees at the regional level, called by some analysts the county committee for folk health, and at the national level where the minister appoints himself as chairman of this particular committee. The main ideas in the Law that we cannot support are the following. I will only mark them as a continuation of Dr. Chakarov's speech, and at second reading we will comment on them more detailed. First of all, the compulsory health card with a monopoly of the National Health Insurance Fund. This is an unacceptable approach for us. The whole algorithm is the development of criteria and implementation in fact of the idea and the hypothesis that regional and national committees can be a pious, criminal and even racketeering body. In democratic and market societies, not the administration, but demand must decide the scope of supply, especially under the conditions that I said, especially under the terms of a monopoly of the Health Insurance Fund. The second idea against which we strongly oppose is the idea of consortiums, infusions and functional associations. This is, in fact, the persistent but more benevolently modified idea of the Minister of Health for the elimination of the three specific establishments against which the idea had serious protests. Thirdly, we stand against compulsory accreditation. I remember that GERB removed this mandatory accreditation three or four years ago. And I remember that maybe the reason was that accreditation was proven to be an ineffective assessment method, creating only conditions for corruption mechanisms and practices. In fourth place, we are against lowering the requirements for censure, namely the requirement for speciality in health management and health information for managers of establishments. This creates a path for us to promote the career of different so-called ladybirds, perhaps blue in this case. And in fifth place, the amendments to the Health Insurance Act, the so-called................. to control the costs of medicines of NHIF.... but this will be mentioned at second reading in the Bill. The privatization proposed in this way against the Privatization Act and post-privatization control gives reason to argue that the pseudo-reforms are styles of the tango two forwards, one backwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u263	Dr. Kardzhaliev, since time is running out, would you like...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u264	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u265	Yes, extend, please, the speaker's time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u266	We interpret the issue of dropping privatization in this Bill as a political blunder, as a severe political blunder. A synthesized summary of the presence, role and style of Mr. Minister is this law, namely impulsive, chaotic ideas, inconsistent, hesitant approach without systematic order. This model does not make sense to be effective and successful. And because we are often blamed: "Okay, what do you propose?". "We have a slender platform and if anyone ever asks us, "What are your proposals for reform?".......................... what are your proposals for reform?......I will now say them now. If we take as a major factor the model of health care, we are firmly for demonopolision. Here are the platforms of the eight parties representing this National Assembly. In the platforms of the ABB, the Reformation Block, the DPS, the BDZ and the Patriotic Front, there is the topic of Demonopolization. This support seems to already exist in separate apologists of demonopolization and party GERB. This, in our opinion, is the main factor that needs to be changed. In other words, competition, not monopoly, deregulation, not limitation, free market for services and free choice of patients, competition between hospitals with balanced regulation by the state, and not least the For these stated reasons, we will not support the bill that is being proposed to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u267	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. Is there anyone who would like to reply to Dr. Kardzhaliev's statement? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u268	I was really scared. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I was really startled because you started with "We will support" and then you said: "We will only support certain things." I didn't hear anything that you would support, but this, of course, is part of the way you express yourself. To remind you, each of the ruling majority parties has signed a programme that speaks of a builder and not a substitute model of health insurance. And here all provocations are absolutely inappropriate because each political party with absolute expertise and clarity why it does so has signed such a programme. Each of the four parties. That's it. Otherwise I understood these lovely sounding mantras, which are sometimes defined as right, sometimes as liberal, actually define the following position. You say in your own name, or on behalf of your political power: I want things to remain as they have so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u269	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u270	No, that's exactly what's true, because a conversation about the choice of a patient, a conversation about competitiveness, a conversation about the free market, a conversation about how you chose someone, about how you had to have a lot of choices, that's the current conversation that led to this situation. The situation is related to the fact that we have 400 hospitals, 400 million years of Cassata deficit, running doctors, disgruntled patients. I don't want that, the majority people don't want it. And apart from that, for me it's a strange state of mind in two consecutive sentences to call me authoritarian and hesitant. Think about it next time!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u271	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. To make a statement, the public representative Mr. Gokov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u272	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, who is missing, honourable Members! The proposed amendments with the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions had to reflect the public expectations for optimization of the structuring and organization of the activities of the medical institutions in Bulgaria. Is that so?! They, in my opinion, rather reflect the views of the Minister for Reforms, with which he is pushing an extremely right-wing health policy. This bill, as far as I understand it, is part of the overall vision of reforming the health care of the governors of the quadruple coalition, or rather part of the governors in the face of the Minister of Health. It offers changes to the regulatory mechanism for creating and updating the National Health Card. All this with the National Health Card, of course, is not a new idea, not finding the hot water, but it is a good proposal, which should be realized, but not unreservedly. To realize not because it has long been adopted almost everywhere in the world practice, and not because it has been an idea for a long time, but because medicine must also have some form of regulation. However, it is not clear to me why regulation will affect only hospitals, hospitals, and not hospital aid practices? I do not understand, and why will no expert opinion be sought on this health card, such as regional medical colleges? There must be answers to these questions and to a number of others, as how will you eliminate the lobbys when drawing this map? I'm moving on. The accreditation of medical establishments shall be re-initiated and a positive accreditation assessment must be available in order to conclude a contract for hospital care between a hospital and the Health Insurance Fund. This proposal at first glance is good, but it should be discussed more and the Minister should say exactly what he means, because before time this same accreditation was cancelled by the court and remained mandatory only for medical institutions that train medical students. On the other hand, the amendments to the Health Insurance Act will introduce standards and criteria for quality and safety and so on and should be able to objectively say which establishment meets or does not meet these standards and what is the quality of the services provided by it. In other words, will accreditation apply to standards, personnel qualification, patient safety or anything else? The Minister under the good excuse to provide complex treatment of the diseases of the basic package with the so-called socially significant diseases. The Casata proposes to enter into contracts only with medical institutions or their associations, which can provide this complex treatment. The patients with socially significant diseases themselves should receive a complex medical service and the Health Insurance Fund should pay for the treatment of the disease in not separate stages or parts of it. I'm not going to ask in this case what patients who have a disease outside the minister's definition as socially significant are going to do? I'm going to ask about the regulated possibility for medical institutions to set up trade law alliances in order to conclude a contract with the Health Insurance Fund. That's good, but only in a way, because all the good ideas of the minister are only good in a way. Thus, the individual hospitals in these associations lose their independence because they will not be able to conclude independently contracts with the Casa, but that is not the problem. The problem is that under this pretense the minister wants to make a infusion or merger of the medical institutions to provide complex treatment for patients. A lot of it, not to say, all of these dispensaries centers are municipal, and it's like he wants to hold them first and then sell them later. However, this approach to restructuring the system will severely limit the powers of municipalities as owners of these medical institutions, make it difficult to serve patients and limit free competition in the health services market. It is really disturbing the idea that mental, oncological and skin diseases should flow into hospitals, because if dispensaries for skin diseases are few and treat less life-threatening diseases, the others listed are quite serious. For example, mental illness is specific. How do they fit into what's called here's complex service? And even though they said it before me, I will repeat it and I will repeat it and the majority of these dispensaries have participated in the Operational Program "Regional Development" and have made investments, respectively have committed to their sustainability and breach of commitments will lead to sanctions, but not to the Minister, but to municipalities. In general, this bill does not put the patient's care and his right to affordable and quality treatment again in the focus of reforms, but some other objectives. I'm worried about the responsibility for the financial situation of the hospitals, which goes to the directors. I said in the Commission, I will repeat it, and now how will they bear this responsibility when the system itself does not guarantee sustainability and income? Are magicians assigned to these places?! Here are even set requirements only for a master's degree, without health management. This is not enough to successfully manage a medical establishment, but it is sufficient, for example, to appoint political guides to these companies. And political appointments will not lead to improvement and optimization of the management of public institutions. Perhaps they will help in the right direction of the proposed privatisation. And we come to the cornerstone, to the essence, to Mr. Minister's basic design. It is apparent from the Bill that privatization of medical institutions is proposed. Hospitals are proposed to be removed from the Privatisation and Post-Privatization Control Agency's ban list, and all without a single word to motivate the need for such a radical change. And how did the minister get the money proceeds to enter the central budget? It's good right, it's liberalizing, but this time it's too much. So far, the idea of a smaller country and more market in healthcare has led to the ultimate commercialization of the system. Instead of developing the health care system in the interest of the sick, we have only achieved a defeat of public health in the literal sense. When was the Minister sincere? When you were saying at the beginning of your management that it was against the treatment institutions being commercial companies, or now when you want to sell them and become fully market oriented and profit-oriented?! It is not acceptable to do trade with human life and health. We warn that the proposal for privatization of medical institutions crosses the border and will lead in the future to the refusal of the state of its constitutional obligations to the health of the Bulgarian citizen, to the inaccessibility of the poor, to the strengthening of inequalities and to violation of the principles of equal access to health services, because only the state can guarantee this equal access without seeking profit at any cost from treatment and care. With these changes in the health system you will not implement any solutions to the problems, but will only deepen them because you have a neoliberal approach, and it is irrevocably exhausted. Therefore, Members of the National Assembly, reject the bill at first reading. To fix it himself, to put it into a wide and active public discussion, to discuss it with the Tristranka and then to offer it to us again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u273	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I can't see. The people's representative, Mr. Semir Abu Melih, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the bill on medical institutions is not as bad as the opposition presents it. There may be a lot of remarks to it, and I may have remarks, but it is a good step for the next main step, which needs to be made - Bulgarian health care to acquire a European look, and that is to fall the monopoly of the National Health Insurance Fund. Remember my word.. If not this National Assembly, if not the next, then the next will do it. There's no other way out! The diversification of payment in the health system is not mandatory. For the treatment of one patient should unite at least two institutions to pay for it in order to obtain a solution to all problems. Low pay for treatment falls, control increases, quality increases, as well as a number of other indicators. But because we are in Bulgaria and populism is very seriously oriented in Bulgarian politics, take care of the issue of health protection and see the countries with the highest satisfaction of the patients, the users of the system. See in these countries whether there is a monopoly of the system or the payment system is diversified and the participants in the payment for the treatment of patients are several. That's the indicator we're giving money, we have to have results. Last week in Bulgaria, the Australians showed us a system that they introduced to Turkey. We give about 300 euros and we have a satisfaction 28% and the Turks gave 500 euros and had 67% satisfaction with their system. They don't even give twice as much as we do, they have three times as much satisfaction. This is coming because there is no monopoly in the system. Because the entire concentration of the health care system is no longer in the Minister of Agriculture, not in the MPs, not in the employees of RZI, not in doctors, but in patients, users of the system. That's the main solution. The world didn't come up with anything else. If they'd come up with something else in the world, I'd tell you. I won't. The best system is not having a monopoly, but diversification without dropping the participation of the Central Solidarity Fund. It continues to run parallel, with many countries participating in the additional payment. That's when you get better health care. That's the solution that needs to happen. Nothing more, nothing less. Regarding the bill, I personally have very slight comments on it. One of them is the privatization of hospitals, which is a very good idea, not a bad idea, but it should happen after the monopoly of the Casa falls. There's no way you're privatizing hospitals and there's only one source of payment. In the private sector are predators in the good sense of the word. They manage well, they know very well how to manage resources. Imagine if there was one.. well they would strangle him all because 75% of the health facilities are almost passive. They have $400 million in debt. Imagine everyone becoming private. Privatization is therefore a very good idea, but it must happen after there is diversification in payment. From then on, leave everything else to the National Assembly and not the Minister. Leave it to the patients, to those who use the system. You will see that the patients themselves will put order into the system because they will start seeking their rights from their insurance companies or the fund to which they gave the money. This fund or this insurance company will control the hospital, control the doctor, control hygiene, control the quality, and the whole chain is in order. We need a solution type of domino effect. You push it here and... the whole puzzle is coming together! Not small individual solutions for every problem. There are thousands of problems. There's thousands of them! We shouldn't be so small. Back! I'm talking about the National Assembly. Here we need to see the big picture, to direct the powers of the state where it can really work, and from there within no more than a year... If the Cashier's monopoly falls, in a year, we'll be wondering how we've been treated so far! Good day and successful reform!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u275	A successful demonopolitanization!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u276	Thank you, Mr. Abu Melih. For a line, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u277	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Abu Melih, or I didn't understand or you didn't express yourself properly. In at least 10 countries in the European Union, there is a single financing institution for health care, as we call it, a Health Insurance Fund. There is no common European funding model. Do not mislead your colleagues, or if you are personally convinced of this, it is good to get to know each other further. The second thing I want to explain to you as well as to finance the current health care in Bulgaria, the source of funding is neither the Casa, the private fund, the health funds or the liberalisation, and the Bulgarian citizens with their contributions depending on where they choose to give their money. The problem at the moment is not the Health Insurance Fund and its deficit. Of course, this is one of the problems - the lack of solvency of the Bulgarian population. The second question relating to this, with the so-called reform, which Mr. Moskov is trying to propose, is at all about the political meaning of this reform. Excuse me, what kind of reform could it be when the Prime Minister returned one chapter to the Minister of Health's Law?! This is ridiculous, guys! What coalition, what cabinet, what interaction between the political forces, what philosophy?! Someone here says he understood the philosophy of the Law. Well, it doesn't have any philosophy in it! Philosophy is a comprehensive understanding of general principles with certain objectives. Well, where did you see that here?! There are several goals here to drain the system so that we can get enough budget to reduce the deficit in the Casa, and whoever dies died. Sorry, this has nothing to do with reform! These are, as Mr. Kardzhaliev put it, some suggestions per piece from an infinitely confused man who has found himself in the post of minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u278	Second line, Mr. Bayraktarov, in two minutes!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You are very strict and precise in two minutes. Mr. Abu Melih, it is a miracle that the DPS have also realised that the NHIF should be demonopolist, but because some are talking about philosophy, it is evident that they do not know the laws of materialistic dialectics and are trying to introduce the Denial of Denial Act into existential style. What I replicate you for, Mr. Abu Melih, is to be much more extreme when you make speeches, because just before you there was a statement by a gentleman for whom, if I have to make a medical diagnosis, is called schizophrenia, because his partners from his party, shortly before he spoke, said: "We will not support the Law and the same said: "We will support some parts of the Law. Only in the first vote, you either support or you don't support. Those are the two possibilities. That's why the thing is called "schizophrenia in medicine" without wanting to offend anyone. That was my thought, and that's why I took a line from your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u280	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Third line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u281	Dear Mr. Zablyanov, for the low solvency of the Bulgarian. Yes, you are right, it is! That's a problem. Therefore, the National Health Insurance Fund should not be on an equal footing when the monopoly falls with the others. It must continue to bear a minimum of 50% of the payments in order to have a balance. I was talking about the other 50% of how people in the world settled things and received an absolute financial balance. Otherwise, for the ten countries you say the payer is only one, give me a list. I'll check it out. [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] No, I will check it out and if there are ten countries in Europe where there is a monopoly of the Casa, I will resign from the National Assembly. I'll get my briefcase and go back to Burgas. [[Radio, lines, cheers.]] If there aren't ten countries, you can resign. I know very well what this is about in Europe! Mr. Zablyanov, the bill is very easy. A billion and two hundred million is the hospital budget. Economists listen to me: half of them are a fund. That's how it's coming, 50 " 53%" is a "Work pay" fund. That's 600 million. Of this 600 million, half are given to doctors. That's how hospital care is organized. If you do the math, it turns out that a doctor in Bulgaria gets it if you divide it into 20 thousand doctors working in the hospital system - rough bills, somewhere around BGN 1800. It's his salary. Mr. Zablyanov, a doctor with 700 euros will never work for you. There is no such thing in Europe! If you want these people to be patriots, socially targeted, do it, but not at their expense. When we talked, I was listening to a lot of weird talk: the hospital, where it performs its social function. The hospital doesn't perform social function, the hospital doesn't treat! The doctor also treats the staff who are inside! This social function is at their expense, at the expense of their families. Back in the day, before, the gray economy, just so you know... [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] I came from this system. Before the grey economy, doctors drove taxis after working hours. Thanks to our ingenuity, in Bulgaria we have 4 billion grey economy. They don't drive taxis anymore, they drive Porsches, but outside of Bulgaria. That's what happened, and that's what happened. Stop thinking, because you're not getting anywhere! The less they vote for you, the less they vote for you, you know! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u282	Thank you, Mr. Abu Melih. [[National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] He didn't mention you by name, Dr. Kardzhaliev. Please! That's kind of a weird view of things. I don't give you my word. I give the floor to MP Valentin Pavlov of the Reformation Block. After him, Professor Kuchukov, after him Dr. Ademov. Dr. Ademov, I pay attention to the fact that the DSS group has two and a half minutes left. Here you go, Mr. Pavlov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I understand the opposition's concern, the opposition's colleagues. I understand because there is a minister and a team ready to make the reforms. [[Relations and excitement in BSP LB.]] There's nothing funny, gentlemen of the opposition. I understand you because deep down, you are convinced of these reforms, what the minister is doing, but somehow you do not want to admit it, because it is happening right now, with this management, with this team, with this majority in parliament. It is not the minister, gentlemen of the opposition, who is confused, but he and his team have confused the accounts of you. I think it's high time you stopped attacking who's causing chaos, whether there's confusion or not. Let me go back to the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions. I'll focus on two main points. The first, this is the key change in the Law on Medical Institutions, the formation of the mandatory nature of the National Health Card and the resulting obligation of the NHIF to conclude contracts only with the medical institutions that received a positive opinion. The National Health Card is that map that will determine and plan on a territorial basis the needs of the population for affordable and quality outpatient care. The regional health cards will be formed on the basis of a needs study and the real picture of hospital and hospital infrastructure, types of medical care, types of medical facilities, number of beds and so on. The map is the regulation of the excess number of medical institutions and the objective basis on which the state can develop health policy in areas where there are insufficient medical institutions. The funding of structures is stopped and treatment started to be financed. The aim is to provide a better quality and adequate treatment for the patient Bulgarian patients should receive the well-deserved highly specialised treatment. Enough time they witnessed an absolutely non-working system that did not care for their need for treatment. Hospitals were found, wards were opened, without any analysis of the needs in the relevant areas. Back where there's a screaming need for specialists and hospital beds, because this particular analysis shows this, these hospitals and wards are gone. This analysis will therefore be carried out by the Commission to draw up the National Health Card. In case of a negative opinion of the Commission, where the existing number of hospital beds and medical activities in the area exceed the specific needs of hospital beds and medical activities by species defined in the National Health Card, a new hospital will not be included and will not be able to enter into a contract with the NHIF until the update of the National Health Card. Once the health card is updated and the hospital is included in it, it will be able to enter into a contract with the Cashier. The National Health Insurance Fund shall pay the funds provided to the relevant hospitals in the event of reduced or directly lacking control. This must be stopped, this is what Bulgarian patients do not want. They want security, accessibility, they want control of the funds allocated. The next point I want to focus on is accreditation. The accreditation of medical institutions becomes a mandatory condition for the conclusion of a contract with the NHIF under the envisaged Draft Act of 1 January 2017. Aims to improve the quality of medical services. The project proposes that medical institutions that want to conduct training for students of residents should be absolutely mandatory. The introduction of the compulsory accreditation of those medical institutions aims to improve the quality of the basic training opportunities of students and residents, as well as compliance with the quality standards of the medical service. I am convinced that there is no one in this room who opposes this by entering a medical facility, no matter what part of the country, not wanting medical care and treatment to be at an extremely high level. My fellow Members, I do not intend to dwell on all the highlights of our proposed bill. After all, we accept philosophy today. The Reformation Block Group will support the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions. I call on all parliamentary groups to put aside our political biases and to support the bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Medical Institutions tabled by the Council of Ministers in the first vote. After all, Bulgarian patients have no color. They want quality and affordable healthcare, they expect us to reform the healthcare system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u284	Thank you, Mr. Pavlov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope you can answer my question in the form of a reply, otherwise I will ask the Minister to answer when he takes the attitude. It is in relation to the National Commission, which makes the National Health Card and which gives an opinion on this to the Minister. The Minister then issued a permit for medical activities. At a further stage, the National Health Insurance Fund concluded a contract with the medical establishment. Firstly, I would like to stress again that the National Health Card, the commentary on its development and the whole process that it has undergone through various legislative proposals, because I think that for authorship here no one should argue, because this is a text that is in the Law on Medical Institutions for a long time, and even with recent changes there is a text that the National Health Card is also mandatory, but not in relation to the conclusion of a contract with health care institutions, but in relation to the distribution of medical institutions and the needs of medical activities. The question is a little more complex and concerns the opinion of this Commission, because I do not believe that there is any clarity in what act I am talking about an individual administrative one, under the Administrative Procedure Code or under which law this Commission will provide as an opinion and whether this act will be able to be appealed by the regional committees, by the members and the persons present, such as a list of staff and competences in them or by the manager of the medical institution who has submitted an application for inclusion in the National Health Card.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Second line? Here you are, Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u287	Dear colleague, you mentioned how the National Card would solve the problems. Yeah, that's right, it'll solve the problems for future, newly discovered health facilities. So from now on, who's going to do something, there's going to be a limit and there's not going to be any money leaks or over-proposals, so let's say. But for the old medical institutions, I warn the Minister to know if those hospitals that are registered, built, made, regardless of their ownership during the current law are excluded from the possibility of having a contract with the Casa, I am sure that they will bring cases against Bulgaria and will win them. Proof of what was before this law "We voted on the Energy Act." There are no more energyists here, no more understanding than they are. There's no one more understanding than them! But imagine none of them dared to shut off the photovoltaics from the system. That's the problem, isn't it? Why don't they dare? Not because the lobby is big. That's not the reason. They know very well that these photovoltaics even pray, a hand kisses to shut them down, because they immediately file cases. True, they'll earn it in two or three years, but they'll get their investments back in a penny. Here is the moment of the state's credibility. Then it was another minister, another government. Never mind, this is the Republic of Bulgaria, these are the laws, gentlemen investors, state, municipality: do hospitals. The door was open. People came through that door and did something. Who's to blame who opened the door or who came in through the door? It's very important to know that. People's work is not a game in our hands! Don't turn Bulgarian healthcare into a massacre! It's a thin moment. I'm not saying that they're some kind of angels, the investors or the managers of health care facilities. It's not like that, it's not like that at all, but there are principles, the state has to respect them. There is no one more than the state that must respect the principles, because the state is the example for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u288	Thank you, Mr. Abu Melih. Will you use the right to the back? No. For speech associate Professor Kyuchukov, Parliamentary Group ABB. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u289	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for noticing that there is a group in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u290	I've always noticed that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u291	Personally, I feel uncomfortable sharing the views of the ABB Parliamentary Group because all three chairmen have directly shown us that they do not care about our opinion. Neither the principle of order of applications nor the principle of rotation of parliamentary groups was respected. We were simply shown that our opinion didn't matter at all. I thank the Minister for coming back for my speech, although he least needs it, because I have told him everything in the Commission. In order to put a spoonful of honey in the tar barrel that wasn't placed here, I would say that the ABB Parliamentary Group, despite a number of disagreements about the Bill, will support it. We'll support him because... [[Replys on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u292	Please don't call from the gym! He's got the word. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u293	We will support it because for the first time we see some form of reform in medical institutions. Are they the best? Probably not, but at the end of the day, it has to start somewhere in a system from which neither users nor performers nor funding bodies are satisfied. I'll start with what they provoked me to do in the hall. And I told the Commission: "Privatization." I am pleased that this text will be withdrawn between first and second readings because privatization as proposed means privatization of patients' medical care. There are a number of things that we support, there are a number of things that we do not agree with. Above all, we strongly support the establishment of a new medical facility Center for complex service of children with disabilities and chronic diseases. This idea also needs a concreteization, because the option in which it is proposed gives the impression that it is only with coordinating functions, while the idea of both ministers who have assisted in this is also to be a medical establishment. We also strongly support accreditation as a mandatory condition for medical institutions, as it will determine the level of competence of these medical institutions. We hope that this level of competence will not only be an opportunity to perform certain functions but also an obligation to perform these functions. Otherwise, it's pointless. We believe that the criteria for managers of medical institutions should not be reduced. Health management is dropped or health economy is down. Does this mean that with some degree in economics, someone who worked at a hotel in resorts could become the director of a health care facility? We don't think that's appropriate. Moreover, if these requirements were dropped, what about public health faculties? They just get redundant. We also support the Health Card as a mandatory condition for the conclusion of a contract with the Public Fund. It is good that dental and pharmacies are included, at least as far as I understand from the presentation of the bill to the Commission, pharmacies will also be included. Or did I misunderstand? But here also arise a number of problems in the very drawing up of this Health Card. Colleagues, from the time of Prof. Geidarski, if I'm not mistaken, every minister is trying to create a Health Card. [[Replications by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Maybe I remember later. Now six months are given again and the whole procedure begins again. Wasn't it easier to dust off the previous projects, combine them and become a working project? Moreover, there are a number of ambiguities in the drawing up of the district and the National Health Card. For example, in the regional health maps of the project for the members whom the minister defines, the people without medical education prevail, which seems somewhat unrealistic to me. There is also one more thing that, for me, is very disturbing "the Minister of Health sends to the district governor a pre-calculation number of beds for hospital treatment, including by species. This is made up of the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis. So what does the district board do to draw up the health card? She's becoming meaningless. If we want to be objective in drawing up the Health Card, the Ministry and its structures should not have a determining quota when drawing up the National Health Card. Seven people are directly or indirectly dependent on the Minister, five are of the word organizations and the President of the National Association of Municipalities, I do not know where he stands. I think that should be precise, too. The last thing I want to say is for the complexity of the service. My colleagues are right that there is no definition of complexity. What does "complexity" mean? Complexity can mean a patient entering the hospital either gets out healthy or gets out dead. That's not a real explanation. If we start for the "complexity," first of all, our health ministries have not been complex in the long term, why there are medical services that are not available in Bulgaria. So, first of all, the complexity should start with the Ministry of Health and, second of all, my suggestion is not to give as an imperative the ways in which it will be produced fully, and I wouldn't call it a complex service to the population. There are three options and all three options could be acted on, not imperatively, in order to merge or eradicate health establishments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u294	Thank you, Assoc. Kuchukov. - What's the line? I can't see. Last to speak, within 2.15 minutes, is Dr. Hasan Ademov. Here you go. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Mrs. Manolova, I see you now. I'll put you on the list. Here you go, Dr. Ademov. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u295	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Within a few minutes, I will address several questions that are related, Dear Minister, to the procedure and to the rules, because procedures and rules are a fundamental essence of democracy, and you are a representative of a democratic procedure. Why am I saying this? Because the second bill repeats the same problems that I will name them in a moment. This draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions was not examined in the Trilateral Council before it was submitted to the Council of Ministers. This is the requirement of art. 3 of the Labour Code. The same applies to the Insurance Act, and it was not dealt with in the Trilateral Council, and this is a violation of the Law. Next, under the Law on Legislative Acts, when there are important and substantial changes to a Bill, and such are undoubtedly the proposed 74 paragraphs in the proposed by you draft of 118 in the current law, this means that there must be a new Law, and you are proposing changes. Next, this project is not discussed with the National Association of Municipalities, as is the requirement of the signed Agreement between the National Association of Municipalities and Government when projects related to the municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria are proposed, the National Association of Municipalities should be informed in advance. Next, a chapter on the privatization chapter was not published for public discussion. Last but not least, the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers have been violated, in which it is said that all the texts must be included in the coordination procedure between the different departments, and the privatisation chapter is included further without further coordination procedure. All this makes me think that in order to claim democracy, you are obliged to follow the rules and procedures. All I've told you are facts. However, a very important question arises. Is it possible that the Reformation Block and the team of the Minister of Health are the main subject in the so-called "health reform'? Therefore, a high credit of public confidence is needed, and you do not have such credit. In order for changes to be sustainable, you must enjoy a sufficiently high credit of trust. [[Noise and lines.]] And last but not least, the level of competence that goes far beyond...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u296	You're talking 30 seconds longer, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u297	I'm done, Madam President. Just one sentence...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u298	Your colleagues ate your time. They should have been more cooperative. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u299	Thank you, Madam President, for understanding. We will not support this project because it provides for centralisation, it provides for overregulation, it provides for concentration, it provides for free movement of beds from the National Centre for Public Health to regional committees and vice versa.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u300	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Let's see if your group has time, Mr. Bayraktarov. You've got two minutes for a line. And by Mr. Ademov, I'm going to take my 40 seconds to talk more.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u301	That's your right. I know I'll give Mr. Ademov three more minutes. Dear Mr. Ademov, at what point are you sincere and at what point do you say things as they are? I will remind you only a week ago when the Patriotic Front submitted a bill to the Committee on Health, which, Mr. Minister and honourable Members, had 15 positive opinions. Fifteen positives! There was no negative opinion and this is the Law on parallel drug exports. Notice, you, Mr. Ademov, who is now criticizing that I do not know what consultations there are not yes, there is an opinion of the Association of Municipalities, and we have expressed this opinion here, explained it and said that we will make changes. However, the interesting thing is that when one law has 15 positive opinions, you are voting against it. There must be only 15 negative opinions in the Law to vote on it. That's your attitude. You know as a doctor that in medicine such divisiveness has its medical term. [[Noise and lines.]] I mean, it's a diagnosis, it's not an insult, I say it's a diagnosis. So at least be honest and honest. This is like the case in which you submitted and wrote in the transcript that the meeting of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy ended at 16.06, given that it ended at 5:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u302	This is out of the law now, Mr. Bayraktarov. As far as I can get into your mind, it's out of this law. [[Replication outside microphones by the MP Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] You remember, okay. Second line? I won't. Dr. Ademov, you will use the back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u303	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, because you are trying to handle terms from the psych ward, I will answer you with a similar term. This hebefresive nature of your reasoning, that means a hesitant nature, doesn't mean that you're convincing enough...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u304	No personal attacks, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u305	Do you know why? Because, first of all, there are not fifteen positive opinions, there are five. That is what the President of the Health Commission said. Secondly, there is no link between the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine and the Law that we are looking at now. There's absolutely no connection! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are absolutely consistent in our conduct and we consistently do not support the laws offered by this team to the Ministry, not because they offer them, but because we are convinced and have said it in our election platform that such important, essential laws that concern the entire Bulgarian people, which require unpopular measures, should enjoy extrapartisan support. Unfortunately, unlike Minister Kalfin, whom you do not support, Minister Moskov does not seek the support of parties outside the ruling coalition. That's the big problem. Fact! No meeting has been requested for you to seek support, dear Minister. And that's the big problem. And that is why we do not support these proposals. Therefore, my request is once again on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms: if you want the proposed changes, problems that want to change the healthcare system in Bulgaria and make it better, seek broad public and party support, look for it, including outside the parties that support the ruling coalition. My request is to have sustainability in your proposals, you must ask for support as wide as possible, not to import something and then look for opportunities to force it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u306	To speak, Mrs. Maya Manolova. Your group has a minute and 11 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u307	Honourable Members, Madam President, Dear Mr. Moskov! We expected from you, if not remorse, at least categorically confirm that you are giving up the idea of privatizing medical institutions. An idea that the Prime Minister himself gave up a week ago and which we expected you to distinguish yourself from if you don't want your ears pulled. We also expected you to clarify another of your favorite ideas, which met the resistance of both doctors and patients, the idea of unification, merger, infusion, functional and legal of medical institutions, on which there were protests that you, as a real reformer, did not comply with, and passed with indifference. We expected you to explain, since this idea, before it was the law, has already been implemented in practice, what is the effect of the merger of nine metropolitan hospitals, whether the administration has been reduced, whether the costs have been reduced, whether the quality has improved or if a hat of administration has just been created that deals with the laundry in hospitals? We expected you to say whether the approach that is not with me is against me.The approach that you applied to Dr. Decho Dechev will continue to apply to the chiefs of medical institutions? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And since we are against the unification, merger and privatization of hospitals, we want a roll call before the vote to see who's in favour! Our request is for a name check after you answer my questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u308	Is there any hope that after the answers you will withdraw the request for a name check?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u309	There's no hope!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u310	- What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u311	I won't!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u312	There's lines. Mr. Kasabov will do Mrs. Manolova a favor. Here you go, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u313	Make a statement!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u314	Mr. Ivanov, do not interfere with the MPs as they go to the stands! To speak, Mr. Kasabov. [[Applause from GERB.]] Colleagues, order please! Have a little more patience!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u315	I was gonna get a line, but I'm gonna save you the pleasure of watching this lovely lady for another three minutes. I'll be as quick as I can. My address to Minister Moskov: Minister Moskov, Mrs. Maya Manolova was [[crowd cheering, noise, speech and applause]] ... Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, We'll have that pleasure, Mrs. Maya Manolova. Mrs. Maya Manolova was specific and clear. Your repentance, your repentance, must be here and now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u316	Well, he did, apparently...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u317	One second, ma'am, please. Let me speak! I just want to add to what you said in your coworker's speech. You need to pour ash on your head, grab a flint and start skinning for all those past and present sins of ministers, deputy ministers of BSP, DPS and everything else you need to take over, Mr. Moskov! And I know you're able to do it to satisfy the masochistic pleasure of the people on the left. They didn't in vain offer a roll-call vote just to make us feel bad. [[Laughter at GERB.]] In fact, this is the amplification of this party, among other hard-to-speaking Bulgarian colleagues. Thank you. [[Applause from RB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u318	- What's the line? Personal explanation please, Mrs. Manolova. I personally expect you to repent and withdraw the proposal for a name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u319	Honourable Members, Madam President, Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Kasabov, in fact, to be honest, I do not feel affected by your speech. Actually, that's not my speech either, and it's not my objection either. What I said from the parliamentary tribune and against the privatization of hospitals, and against the merger, the infusion, the unification of hospitals and complex oncology centers [[noise and lines]] is the opinion of Bulgarian doctors and Bulgarian patients. They're against the minister's ideas! And to me, it is absurd that a minister who comes precisely from the medical community has not complied with the opinions of his colleagues. In fact, the principle that is not with me is against me is extremely dangerous because in the same Law Minister Moskov has laid off all worthy directors of oncology centers!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u320	Now you're making a point, Mrs. Manolova! The room is responding with good reason!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u321	I'm asking...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u322	No, don't ask, explain what you're affected with, and if you're not affected, sit down!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u323	I ask: is it necessary for the MPs to become ill from a socially significant disease to see how important calm is in specialized hospitals and in complex oncology centers?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u324	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. And what do we do with the check?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u325	I really expect a response from the Minister in the result of the merger of hospitals and what are the benefits for doctors, patients and the administration. [[Loud noise and lines.]] And what does he expect to happen after the voluntary merger is associated with a mandatory section...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u326	Thanks, you're getting to the point! I'm giving a beep. Now we're taking the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u327	...aborting contracts with the NHIF? What will be better for the patients? Tomorrow, each of you can be a patient.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u328	On such a fruitful day, let us not sanction ourselves by withdrawing the word! Mr. Minister, will you answer the questions? No. [[Loud applause from GERB.]] Are there any other MPs willing to participate? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a quorum, Mrs. Manolova. Are you withdrawing your proposal for a name check? But you shouldn't say that I manipulated...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u329	Yeah. Colleagues, didn't you hear she said she was withdrawing the roll call? [[Applause from GERB.]] I ask the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber, a vote is yet to be taken. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 502-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2015. Vote 128 MPs: 102, against 21, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB. Members of parliament shall exit the Chamber.]] Please, colleagues, this meeting is not over! Mr. Ermenkov, first negative vote. [[Laughter, noise and lines from GERB.]] Colleagues, I'm asking for a little more patience!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u330	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleagues! For those of you who are patient and well-mannered is the address. I voted negatively, not because we do not want to have reform, and not because the minister who is currently leaving and clearly does not care what we say as opposition [[Elevator bell dings]] He said that those who object are for keeping the status quo, and that was very scary. Mr. Minister, scarier than keeping the status quo is for you to make it worse, and that's what you're doing with your bill. You're not pushing health care in a positive direction, you're holding it back! So it is better not to have your reform, it is better to stay now, otherwise the other is doom for the Bulgarian patient, doom for the Bulgarians! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u331	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-14.u332	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Second negative vote? I won't. Due to debate and vote on all three points of today's agenda of the extraordinary plenary sitting, I close the same. Tomorrow, regular plenary session at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
