ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Please register. I shall open the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] I suggest to your attention the National Assembly Work Programme for 20 May 2015 as follows: 1. First vote on the Draft Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. Importers: Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. 2. First vote on a Bill for the State Intelligence Agency. Exporters: Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs, 20 November 2014, and a Bill for the State Agency of Intelligence. Importers: Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, 11 March 2015 3. First vote on the Military Intelligence Bill. Importers: Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. 4. First vote on the National Security Act. Importers: Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. 5. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers: Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. 6. Report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014. Importer: Council of Ministers. 7. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Consumer Protection. Importer: Council of Ministers. 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 9. Second vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. A joint project based on the laws adopted in the first vote on 22 April 2015 with importers: Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs, 17 February 2015; Council of Ministers, 20 March 2015; Council of Ministers, 7 April 2015. 10. First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the State Property Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 11. Project for a decision for the conversion of a private university - college with the title of "International College" - Albena, with the seat of the resort complex "Albena" in the municipality of Balchik, in the specialized private Varna University of Management. Importer: Council of Ministers. 12. Project for a decision for the transformation of the private university of independent college, called "European College of Economics and Management" and based in Plovdiv at a specialized private European Higher School of Economics and Management of Plovdiv. Importer: Council of Ministers. 13. Project for a decision for the transformation of a private university of a private university called a College of Economics and Administration and with its head office in Plovdiv at a specialized private university of security and economy of Plovdiv. Importer: Council of Ministers. 14. Project for a decision for the transformation of the College of Telecommunications and Posts Sofia, Varna University of Telecommunications and Post Offices with headquarters in Sofia. Importer: Council of Ministers. 15. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Climate Change Restriction Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 16. Second vote on the Bill on the European Protection Order. Importer: Council of Ministers. 17. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Structure of the Area. Importers: Petar Slavov and a group of MPs - 11 February 2015; Council of Ministers, 22 April 2015 18. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act. Importers: Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov on 29 April 2015 19. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 148 MPs: 130 against 1, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 is receiving a proposal from Mr. Zhelyo Boychev, Secretary of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria, which proposes that as a point of our weekly programme a draft Decision on the need to review the EU's sanctions policy regarding the conflict in Ukraine should be included. Mr. Boychev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Nearly one year after the imposition of sanctions on the Russian Federation, it is clear that the political result of these sanctions is not available. On the contrary, it's the ordinary people and the business that suffer. Our country is one of the most affected. Whole sectors of the Bulgarian economy such as agriculture, food industry, Bulgarian tourism, pharmaceuticals, machine building experience significant indirect, direct losses. We have repeatedly put this issue in the Bulgarian Parliament and the majority rejects it. We believe that there is nothing more normal than the debate and the discussion about the phased cancellation of sanctions to the Russian Federation and the demand for a compensatory mechanism for the affected sectors in the Bulgarian economy to be discussed in the Bulgarian National Assembly. A decision of the Bulgarian National Assembly would give the necessary courage and additional arguments for the Bulgarian government to put this issue within the European Union. Bulgarian entrepreneurs who are most affected by these sanctions need not our silence, need our support and I think we owe it to them. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen of parliament that at the beginning of next week the Bulgarian Minister of Economy, Bulgarian Minister of Energy and the Minister of Agriculture and Food will be visiting the Russian Federation. Putting this issue, discussing it in this House today, we believe it would be a good sign of a successful visit on their part. We offer to your attention this Project for a decision to phase out sanctions to the Russian Federation with a clear understanding that the Bulgarian national interest implies an hour rather lifting these sanctions and restoring economic and commercial relations with the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u3	I put to the vote the proposal made to include the point in our weekly programme. They voted 146 MPs: 48 against 45, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u4	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, my request is that you put the draft decision to re-vote, in the hope that the Bulgarian MPs will make it clear that we are in a situation where we are looking for a way out of this situation and the talks of Chancellor Merkel and the Secretary of State of the United States Kerry show that we are looking for a way out of this situation. It seems to me that Bulgaria needs to be active in making this decision within the European Union "Otherwise, Bulgarian companies on the Russian market will be replaced by our competitors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u5	It's a re-vote. Vote 151 MPs: 50, against 54, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. Members of Parliament, the time required for parliamentary control so far is more than 16 hours. Following a discussion of the Conference of Presidents this morning, the National Assembly's leadership comes with a proposal to hold an extraordinary plenary session on Tuesday, 26 May 2015, at 11.00, dedicated only to parliamentary control. I put to the vote the motion to adopt a decision to hold an extraordinary plenary session on 26 May 2015, Tuesday, at 11:00. [[Replys on the left.]] From 11:00 to 5:00 probably. If you are holding, let us fix it, because then the meetings of the parliamentary groups begin. Start time. 11:00, until 17.00 p.m. They voted 144 MPs: 136 against 3, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 13 to 19 May 2015: Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children. Importers suppose Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Education and Science. Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game. Importers suppose Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importer "Велизар Еnchev." It has been allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy as a leader and to the Committee on Defence. A bill to supplement the Civil Registration Act. Importers "Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. Report on the implementation of the budget of the State Social Security for 2014. Importer "The National Insurance Institute. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. Importers suppose Borislav Borisov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Health is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Service Act. Importers "Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy will also see it. Draft Law amending the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. Importers suppose Polina Karastoyanova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including financial statement for the months January It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Underground Treasures. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Energy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Environment and Water and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Two more messages: On 15 May 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 15 May 2015 to 25 May 2015 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 15 May 2015 to 25 May 2015 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 15 May 2015 to 25 May 2020. No 502-00-34, the National Assembly received a Report on the activity of the State Financial Inspection Agency for 2014. By my letter the Report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and was available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. On 18 May 2015, Information was received from the National Statistical Institute on: the monitoring of the workforce in the first quarter of 2015, the average monthly salary and the list of employees by employment and service for the first quarter of 2015. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We are ready to move to point one of our weekly program. Before that, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable cabinet members, colleagues! In relation to the adopted agenda, the first, second, third and fourth points, which we are about to debate and vote, I propose that, apart from Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva and the Minister of Defence, be invited the Minister of Interior, the Head of the National Security Service, the Director of the National Intelligence Service, the Chairman of the National Intelligence Service, the Director of the Ministry of Military Information. The laws to be discussed concern all these services and there may be questions to the respective bosses to take into account the debates held.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u7	It's a first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u8	I see that Mrs. Kuneva is present for the most likely viewing of these points. Forgive ignorance, but as far as I am aware, and officially from the website of the Council of Ministers Mrs. Kuneva is Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs. He is most likely present as a power deputy prime minister, but it is good to invite the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov. [[Radio and shouts: "Eee!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u9	Mr. Iankov, I will take an act from your proposal. I will invite the persons you refer to in my speech to attend our meeting. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Given the importance of the topics discussed from first to fourth point and the upcoming vote on extremely important laws governing matter such as security, I propose that the debates from first to fourth point should be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u11	A counteroffer? Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u12	Dear Madame Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! I am making a reverse procedural proposal because in the end, we are expected to finally adopt these bills at first reading, not to have a PR in front of the media. Colleagues who offer have been in power for a long time in the years back. [[BSP LB]] They didn't think to regulate this matter at all. The past government has been doing quite other things, so let's do our job, not do public PR election. I'm making a reverse procedural proposal that the procedure for examining the bills will proceed normally.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u13	I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Ivanov from BSP left Bulgaria for direct broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio of the items on the agenda from first to fourth inclusive. Isn't that what you suggested, Mr. Ivanov? [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov.]] We vote. They voted 145 MPs: 45, against 66, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. Point one: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR MANAGEMENT AND FACTION OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY PROTECTION SYSTEM. Importers: Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. There's been reports. We'll first hear the committee's report. This is the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence tools and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Mr. Lazarov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u14	Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of the Interior and Mr. Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev, Deputy Minister of Defence, before I introduce the Chamber to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u15	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposed admission to this House. Vote 117 MPs: 115, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests if they're here. We're listening, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u16	♪ I can't believe to the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications on a Draft Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, No 554-01-49, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. The Commission at its meeting held on 19 March 2015 examined the Draft Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, No 554-01-49, submitted by Mr. Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by guests from the presidency of the Republic of Bulgaria: General Atanas Samandov. Secretary for Defence and Security, and Mrs Petya Tyankova Secretary for Legal Affairs......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The bill was presented by Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov, who stressed that it was submitted to the Forty-first National Assembly in April 2012, last updated in 2011. The bill optimizes the functionality of the individual structures concerned with national security. The established Security Council in the Council of Ministers assists the Prime Minister, is a corrective centre with control of the functions of the structures concerned with national security. It outlines detailed parliamentary control, civil control over the security services, the Council of Ministers, removing the legal flaw for the past 20 years. Mr. Anyu Angelov welcomed the Bill, stressing that the Security Council is a centre for analysis of the management and control of the security services. Mr. Georgi Krastev stressed that the Bill creates a clear governance for crises, creates a sound legal basis for the Council of Ministers, for the intelligence community, a permanent mechanism for sticking between institutions with regard to national security. Mr. Krassimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Interior, described the bill as a system framework law that is timely and fully supports it. The Director of the National Intelligence Service Mr. Dragomir Dimitrov supported the bill as regulating the interaction of the institutions responsible for national security. Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency, outlined that in the draft operational information activity is a function for the effective functioning of the security services. Mr. Atanas Merdjanov, Commissioner, pointed out in his statement that there is no doubt about the need for a framework law. The same is a high political act, but since it lacks the specific, it refrains from supporting it. Following the conclusion of the 12 votes debate, 2 abstentions, the Commission is not proposing to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, No 554-01-49, submitted by Mr. Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u17	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. A report from the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order follows. Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, No 554-01-49, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. At a regular meeting held on 25 March 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, No 554-01-49, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Council of Ministers: Georgi Krastev. Advisor to the Prime Minister; from the Ministry of Interior: Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov; from the National Security Service: Angel Antonov The draft law on the management and functioning of the national security protection system was presented by the importer of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, who pointed out that the drafting of the Bill was carried out within the framework of the recommendations given by the Advisory Council for National Security at its meeting in April 2012. The proposed bill is framework and it contains a definition of the concept of the National Security System and regulates the structure, tasks and activities of this part of it, which is directly related to the protection of national security. Main and substantial attention is paid to the Security Council as a coordinating and advisory body of the Council of Ministers in the implementation of the management of the national security system. Close cooperation and interaction with the executive bodies, local self-government, NGOs, legal persons and citizens and related structures in other countries and international organisations is envisaged in the Bill. The implementation of parliamentary and civil control over governance, spending of funds, access to information is also envisaged. The funds to finance the implementation of the Law will be provided by the budgets of the Council of Ministers and other state bodies entrusted with responsibilities. The representatives of the Prime Minister, the President, the Ministry of Interior expressed support for the bill. MPs Atanas Merdjanov, Ivan Ivanov, Krasimir Yankov, Mustafa Karadayi participated in the debates. It was expressed that the bill should clearly distinguish the powers of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers from the powers of the National Security Advisory Council of the President. It is recommended that the information collected be summarised and that a clearer regulation be established for the implementation of interaction and coordination between the individual bodies and that no blocking of the Council's activities is allowed. National Representative Atanas Atanasov stressed that the Advisory Council for National Security of the President is a advisory body established on the basis of art. 100, para. 3 of the Constitution, whose aim is to achieve political agreement and synergies on the country's priority issues of security and defence, while the Security Council, subject to this law, is an operational body whose functions and tasks arise from the responsibilities of the executive in relation to the national security introduced by the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Point out that the need for regulation and adoption of a Law on the management and functioning of the national security system is undisputed. After the debates held, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee with 13 votes for the National Security Protection System, No 554-01-49, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 11 March 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u19	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u20	Mr President, honourable Members, I present to you: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Legal Affairs for the First Voting of a Draft Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, No 554-01-49, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. At its meeting held on 25 March 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, No 554-01-49, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. The meeting was attended by: President General Atanas Samandov, Secretary of Defence and Security, and Mrs. Petya Tyankova Secretary for Legal Affairs; from the Council of Ministers General Anyu Angelov and Mr. Georgi Krastev. Advisors in the Political Office; from the Ministry of Interior Mr. Krasimir Tsipov Deputy Minister; from the Ministry of Defence Mr. Iliya Nalbantov. Director of the Ministry of Military Information and Mr. Plamen Darakchiev Secretary; from the State Agency "National Security" "Mr. Nedyalko Nedyalkov" Vice-President of the National Security Agency, and Mrs. Tanya Karakash "Director of the Department of Legal Affairs"; from the National Police Service "Major General Dragomir Dimitrov" "Search of the NRS," and Mr. Peter Temelkov "General Jurissult"; from the National Security Service "Supporting General" Dr. Angel Antonov "Senior," and Mr. Petar Vladimirov "General Expert at NSO." On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov. He pointed out that the idea of drafting the Bill was the result of the need to create a mechanism to achieve better coordination and control between intelligence services and security services. The bill regulates the management and functioning of the system for the protection of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria and its control. The National Security Protection System is proposed to consist of state bodies and structures which carry out diplomatic, defence, intelligence, counter-intelligence, law enforcement and security activities and which are represented in the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The Security Council is designated in the Draft Law as the advisory and coordination body of the Council of Ministers with the main task of assisting the government in the implementation of the general government, with the Prime Minister implementing the immediate management of the national security protection system. A legal opportunity shall be established for the Security Council to ensure the necessary cooperation between the structural units of the national security protection system. The bill also contains provisions regulating crisis management activities. The accountability and control of the activities of the authorities and bodies of the National Security Protection System is envisaged to be carried out by the National Assembly through its permanent committee, by the Council of Ministers and by the citizens and their organisations. The funds for the implementation of the law will be provided by the budget of the Council of Ministers and by the budgets of the other state bodies to which it entrusts responsibilities. The bill governs public relations of exclusive national competence and does not affect European Union law. Its adoption will be in full compliance with the practice of the Member States and the Union as a whole, for a clear regulation of activities and competences in the field of national security. Ms. Petya Tiankova, Lieutenant General Anyu Angelov, Mr. Georgi Krastev, as well as MPs Danail Kirilov, Dimitar Lazarov, Dimitar Delchev, Petar Slavov and Yavor Haytov, who united around the need to adopt the proposed Draft Law. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the National Security Protection System, No 554-01-49, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u21	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. On behalf of the importers Mr. Tsvetanov will present the bill to the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that in today's day we can get full political consensus on the proposed packages of security-related legislations, with which I am convinced that we will fill a legal vacuum that we have been monitoring for 25 years. Of course, the National Security Concept adopted in 1998 started the establishment of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, which partially solved the problem arising on the coordination and interaction of the security services in the Republic of Bulgaria. Of course, the adoption of the National Security Concept for the first time in 1998 gave guidance on the formulation of a definition of national security, which found development in the regulations through the Law on the Protection of Classified Information and the Law on State Agency. Of course, the projects of national security strategies developed in 2005 and 2008 did not reach a procedure of adoption. However, the process of their development has enabled the dynamics of national objectives and interests to be assessed, changes in the security environment and the resulting security policy requirements. The National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria is a fundamental document for uniform formation, planning, implementation, coordination and control of national security policies, conducting state institutions in cooperation with citizens and their organizations. Of course, external and internal security are becoming increasingly mutually dependent and the distinction between them becomes conditional. Strategic influence on the internal security environment have international, financial, economic and political processes, energy projects, the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria for timely protection of democratic values, for protection and control of external borders in the European Union and the fight against cross-border crime. Risks and threats by nature and forms of manifestation are becoming more and more asymmetrical and have a significant impact on the global and regional security environment. Asymmetric threats, particularly international terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, regional conflicts, cybercrime and cross-border organised crime have a significant impact on the global and regional security environment. The objectives of the national security system can only be achieved in the event of a regulatoryly regulated institutionally organised dialogue, consultation and interaction between legislative, executive and judicial authorities. Of course, we can't help but include the country's commander-in-chief, the President of the Republic, the citizens and their organizations. National security laws and regulations shall be developed according to the dynamics of public relations and in accordance with the principles and guidelines set out in the National Strategy adopted in 2011 by the Forty-first National Assembly. The regulatory framework shall be designed to achieve a single legal space in the field of national security, whereby there is no conflict between legal rules, institutional and functional structures and mechanisms. The preparation of the drafts was carried out in the framework of the recommendations given by the Advisory Council with the President, held on 25 April 2012. Part of the main provisions defining the guidelines for the development of the national security system were set by the adopted National Strategy of the Forty-first National Assembly in 2011. I would especially like to thank all parliamentary represented parties who participated in this Advisory Council, which were part of the Forty-first National Assembly. I believe that this was the Advisory Council on National Security, which gave a really constructive dialogue. There was pragmatism and, of course, then the ruling majority, respectively the management of the Political Party GERB, complied with the recommendations given by the opposition, which participated in this Advisory Council. I can say that after the Advisory Council on 25 April 2012, a series of meetings were held with both the non-governmental sector and higher education institutions, which have a specialty related to national security. Indeed, we have come to the development of bills that may be part of the overall package, which today will be adopted at first reading and will enable between first and second reading to actually be detailed and further recommendations that could be made in today's discussion. In the draft, significant attention is given to the Security Council, which is designated as the advisory and coordination body of the Council of Ministers with the main task of assisting the government in the implementation of the general government and the Prime Minister in carrying out the immediate management of the national security protection system. An exception in this aspect is the National Security Service, but it is part of the Security Sector, and that is why we have included the National Security Service Act in the package we are talking about. The draft proposed that the Security Council should have only one composition. The President of the Council is the Prime Minister. Council members are proposed to be some of the ministers, the Chief of Defence, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior and the heads of the National Security Protection System. Deputy Ministers are not intended to participate, but where they are authorised by the relevant Minister for a meeting, they may take part. What we have foreseen in order to have a unified policy in the Security Sector and not to divide the authorities, which could also arise as a problem with the overall comprehensive approach in the security system, is envisaged in the Council, which will be led by the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic to have two representatives to be authorised by a decree of the President to participate in all these meetings. The important thing that I think it is very appropriate to do is that the President, in the interest of him, is entitled to participate in any meeting, which he believes has issues related to changing dynamics in the security system. The regulated activities of the Security Council create legal opportunities to establish it as a coordinating and advisory centre for planning and conducting national security policy and to ensure the necessary cooperation between the structural units of the national security protection system. A key point is the regulation of control over the activities of the national security protection system, and the draft provides for the control to be carried out by the National Assembly, the Council of Ministers and the citizens. A new point in the legislation in force is the inclusion of a text which provides for parliamentary control over the management and spending of funds by intelligence services. This activity will be entrusted to a committee designated by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The draft regulation regulates activities of exclusive national competence and does not affect European Union law. The assessment of the impact of its adoption can only be positive because, after 25 years of democratic transition, the management and functioning of the national security protection system will be regulated at the legal level, and this will also be in full compliance with the best practices of the Member States of the European Union, clear regulation of activities and competences in the field of national security. My fellow Members, I hope that in today's debate on the package of laws there will be no populism, but we will approach pragmatically. I would like to state categorically that all parliamentary parties represented in the current Parliament, all parliamentary parties that participated in the Advisory Council in 2012, have contributed so that the packages of laws that we are dealing with today can be drawn up. We should also bear in mind that in 2005 and 2008, when the change of the National Strategy for National Security was discussed, all the dynamics that arose in the process after our NATO accession were also taken into account. As a member of the European Union, you know that the first National Strategy adopted in the field of security was in 1998. I would like to thank you for the constructive dialogue that took place in the committees, although there were different opinions. I am convinced that in the dialogue that we have put into the Forty-third National Assembly, all parliamentary parties will actually be able to participate actively in filling this legal vacuum that we have observed for two decades. I would especially like to thank the representatives from the Parliamentary Group of GERB. At the starting stage the representatives from ABB were also representatives, and here is Mr. Miho Mihov, who was actively involved in the debates and discussions in the Advisory Council in 2012. From this point of view he also said support from his parliamentary group for these drafts. I hope we have a constructive dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u23	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Mr. Iankov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, I took the opportunity and made the procedure to invite the absent, please invite those present until a moment ago Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence, including with the argument that Mr. Tsvetanov ended his exhibition, ended his speech if that was the reason to leave. Please invite them back. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u25	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. I'll do it. The debate is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in it to submit an application. Mr. Angel Naydenov goes first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u26	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a series of the most important security legislations and the attention to them, to the discussions, to the positions of the different parliamentary groups are completely justified. Moreover, these are really bills that have been waiting for 25 years, and they are bills that have not been born easily. After three years, we are again faced with the possibility of adopting these bills. I would like to point out, as a positive to the importers, that a significant part of the comments that have been made and presented in previous discussions are reflected in the submitted bills. Some experts believe that it took time to overcome partying, the desire to master the services throughout this transition period, to overcome the absence of democratic reflexes at the beginning of the transition. I personally do not share this understanding, and I think that the temptation to abuse will not die soon, although in the case of adopted bills for services, generally speaking. The existence of a law, even bad, is first of all the strongest defense against such attempts. The brightest evidence, literally from the last hours, is the appointment of the Director of the Military Information Service. Under the law in force, this appointment could not have happened or, let's just say, it shouldn't have been possible. This, to some extent, I can define as a provocative behavior of the Minister of Defence, literally hours before the examination of the Draft at first reading in plenary. Let me go back to the first of the draft laws under discussion. The Bill on the structure and functioning of the national security protection system. The initial ambition to create a law three years ago and today, to create a framework law, for national security, as is commented everywhere, i.e. a law that systematizes all the concepts, all the elements, the relationships between them, the evaluation mechanisms, the forces and their growth in the event of a threat or crisis; a law that defines the necessary capabilities by analogy with defence planning.. I believe that this is the most effective approach I know about the initial ambition is not protected. The scope of the bill is reduced to part of the national security system and this is the system for protecting national security. I continue to wonder why this is meant only by the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. How and where exactly is the place, how does the Advisory Council, for example, fit in? Is it part of this system for the protection of national security or, say, the specialized committees of the National Assembly, or is this an activity solely and solely included as the responsibility of the executive in the face of the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister and the Security Council respectively? Of course, I note, it is good to have legal regulation of the Security Council's activities, by analogy with the Advisory Council and, accordingly, the Law on the Advisory Council for National Security, but I do not understand why this need to replace the need for a framework National Security Act, all the more so that the professional community in its majority is unanimous in this assessment. I merely point out that, speaking of a community, the scope of the intelligence community referred to in the Bill is not, in my view, complete. The text that other representatives of ministries and departments are involved if necessary is not sufficient. I think the crisis management unit is weakly developed. What kind of crises? Crisis of non-military nature or crisis of any nature? This is not a terminological dispute. This is a discussion about the cases and the ways in which national resources are used to meet the expectations of citizens and society, because they stand at the heart of the understanding of national security. In addition, the differences in the definition of the concept of "national security" are not a good characteristic of the legislation in this area. If, as alleged, the legal definition is in the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, then let the definitions of the draft in question be formulated around it. Returning to the crisis issue, let me give the following example: if, in the case of the refugee flow and, let us say, the political crisis in Macedonia is resonating and, accordingly, the assessments of the Security Council, then who or which structure is responsible for defining national measures and behaviour in the context of the crisis in Eastern Ukraine, and it is as a combined response to diplomacy, sanctions, positions, participation in NATO response forces and, accordingly, support for proposals that are being made to change NATO's strategy and actions? Answers, positions, not because this is what our allies do, or because this is the collective will and the appropriate solution, but as a thoughtful and justified behavior based on reasoned positions. Who's going to offer these positions? This answer, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, will not be found in our proposed bill. There are, of course, other remarks and proposals that tolerate a change between first and second readings, but the principled disagreements also determine the position of the BSP Parliamentary Group left Bulgaria not to support the bill in today's vote. Among the remarks that I would like to point out in this order are, firstly, the impression of overresponsibility, excessive competence of the Security Council, respectively, powers and authority of the Secretariat as a possible permanent functioning body. Take a look at the texts of Articles 9, 10 and those referred to the principles on which the protection of national security is built, and you will see what I say. Secondly, despite trying to define such broad powers, I think that quite schematically, one fundamental responsibility has to be assigned to the Security Council, and this is the overall countering cybercrime activity, respectively, with regard to ensuring cyber security and cyber security. What is the relationship of the Security Council, and what should be this relationship, for example, with the Inter-departmental Council, which operates within the SANS? How is this so important for the present-day activities related to countering cybercrime not from the point of view of an attack only on, to say, the information systems of financial institutions, contained in the responsibility and in the activities of the Security Council? Finally, let me also say that we appreciate the dignity of the desire to introduce and adopt these so important laws in a package, the desire to have legal regulation and clarity, including clearly defined responsibility, but they are not sufficient grounds for supporting each of the proposed bills. I'm ending up with a surprise. I respect the initiative and therefore the desire of the importers, in the face of the MPs who have signed the bills, but in the absence of any representatives of the Council of Ministers, I do not understand whether they support these bills. Does the Council of Ministers stand as a whole, including behind the framework law and behind the various bills that are presented to our attention? The absence of deputy prime ministers, of ministers at the beginning of this discussion, for me rather expresses disagreement, disapproval or lack of respect for this activity which is currently under way in plenary. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u27	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. - What's the line? For a statement? Let's alternate the groups, Mr. Toshev, then Mr. Popov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, even veiledly we hear and will hear that what we are currently doing as a process, because it will be a process, a whole complex of laws have been introduced, concerning national security and its protection, as has been stated by the reports of the committees and by the reasons of the importers, started four years ago and I hope that in this session of the National Assembly we will finish it at second reading, because what we are currently starting is essential for several reasons. Firstly, it concerns the national security of the state, its protection, and this is clearly laid down in the Law, not entirely our national security, but the protection of national security. Secondly, it concerns extremely important structures in our society, institutions that are not enough, and rightly that they are not sufficiently illuminated in the media and public space in terms of the specifics of their work. The next thing is that we have more than ten years, entering NATO, signing the Pact Treaty, we have allied responsibilities that have not been legally regulated so far. Another thing is very important, which again because of the specifics of the work of the services does not come out, but this is the motivation of the work of the employees within the services. The last thing is: it is extremely important that the work of these services is co-ordinated for Foreign and Military Intelligence as a common, in many cases intersecting activity. Just so you know, I want to tell you two things. The first is that, so far, all three specific services that we comment on are working on internal rules that are top secret and which, in most parts of the staff within the services, are not allowed to read. The second is that we live in the so-called information era. Just so you know, until the 1970s, the world was generally dominated by activities related to nature and agriculture. Then in a very short period the economy prevailed as leading in its pure form and since the beginning of the 21st century the information sphere has been leading. So everything that is developing in the world right now is subject to information flows. Another curious fact. Assuming that by 1970, for example, the information about the world as a self-recognizing structure was a unit, it is currently over tridest. That is, in just fifty years, information about the world as a whole has increased thirty times and more, and a large part of this information is being submitted precisely by such services. They are the source and are an analyst of this information, meaning they determine where society is going as a whole. With regard to the Law itself, honourable Members, my request is as we have adopted in the Forty-first National Assembly, the National Security Strategy, as has already been pointed out by the general understanding that the services need regulation of their activities, to begin the process of drafting the laws, so many steps have been taken in their processing that, as chairman of the subcommittee in the Forty-first National Assembly for the control of the services, I had the fear that we would not be able to get out of the cycle of making a better draft law and law. In this case, we are discussing the first law, which is framework law. Of course, lawyers are much better prepared in this area, but I want to tell you that all four laws are fully in line with our rules for drafting bills and basically the Law on Administration, on the one hand. On the other hand, there are two approaches and this Law already shows slight criticism that it is not sufficiently detailed. Most likely, the next ones will be criticised for being very detailed, but this is still a framework law that defines basic things that cannot be specified because then again by law they need to be supplemented or changed. Let us adopt the Law now by consensus.. this is my request, and all documents that we have adopted in this National Assembly, in the previous and in the earlier, are adopted by consensus. This is very important for our national security system because it is a clear sign not only for our partners, and they are not only partners outside the territory of Bulgaria, but also for all Bulgarian citizens. My request is to adopt the Law, to discuss it between first and second readings and if it is necessary to supplement and correct it, but to have consensus on this Law. The other, which is, there is no model that we can apply with minor or minor corrections. There is no model for which we say it is good, it comes from somewhere where you are, it has functioned for 20, 50 or 70 years and we apply it here, adapting it to the Bulgarian conditions. There's no such thing. Each country, each country decides for itself. That is why it has been highlighted several times, and I would stress it that this Law is a system of national security protection and its functioning, as well as the three law on services, do not concern the legislation of the European Union. There is no relation to European regulations and directives that we are implementing. It's our personal business, but they're referring to our joint work. I would like to make it clear here that we are dealing with joint work with services of other countries and partners and international organisations and, in no case, there are already opinions in the press, in the specialized circles, that we are obeying nothing. Absolutely autonomous system and services guarantee by these laws. I do not think that the definitions given in the proposed draft Law on the functioning and management of the national security protection system are insufficient. I've had the opportunity to comment on one particular case. During one of the discussions at the Central Military Club for over an hour and a half, national security experts commented on three sentences giving the definition: what is this national security? And they couldn't reach consensus. I don't think we can invent, write and vote on the excellent law. Let us vote on a good law that will enable our system and the three specific laws to be adopted and to work in a normal, open regime. In this regard, again, my request is: let us adopt by consensus and, in order to give a good sign to the services, to the Bulgarians and to all our partners, and then we will have the opportunity to correct what is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u29	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Velizar Enchev to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u30	Madam President, colleagues, absent ministers! I would like to make some serious remarks, namely a serious remark to the Bill, which concerns the Constitution, in particular Article. 1, para. 1 of it, which states that Bulgaria is the Republic with parliamentary rule. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 of the law is said that when managing the National Security Protection System, the National Assembly, in the first place, I stress this, the President of the Republic and the Council of Ministers define national priorities. See, this is a very good thing, I support it, because it is recognised that the National Assembly defines national interests and priorities, as we are a parliamentary Republic, as I have already said. But after we go to art. 8, para. 1 we read something that is contrary to art. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, which specifies the establishment of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, it is said that the President of the Security Council is the Prime Minister and members are the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and so on, the chiefs of agencies. But, here, in art. 8, para. 1, 2 and 3 there is no representative of the National Assembly, in this case the head of the relevant parliamentary committee. Even more scandalous is al. Article 6 8, which states that in certain cases on individual issues in the work of the Security Council at the invitation of its President, listen carefully, the President of the National Assembly, chairmen of permanent committees of parliament, MPs may participate. Here, in this paragraph, directly the Council of Ministers, in my opinion, eliminates the legislative authority. I ask you, what are these specific cases, certain questions and who determines when the National Assembly and its representatives will participate in this Security Council, headed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria? I think you will agree that since we are a republic with parliamentary rule, this is a serious lack of the Bill and, I would say, its vice. When we talk about Chapter Four, Integrity and Control, this is openly acknowledged, which is good, I quote, that Article. 22, para. 1: The National Assembly controls the activities of the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency of Intelligence, the Office of Military Information and the National Security Service. But then I ask the question: since it is recognised that indeed the National Assembly is controlling why the National Assembly is the most important question................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. How will he control the implementation of decisions when he is not involved in their making at all? When we go to the reasons in the Draft Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, I would like to draw attention to the text which states that the proposed Draft is framework, and it also indicates, listen carefully, the powers of the National Assembly. I believe that this text in the Bill is denigrating the National Assembly because, I recall, not the executive authority in Bulgaria, but the legislative authority in the National Assembly gives the powers. We give the powers, not the executive body of the Council of Ministers, which is why, between first and second readings, I will submit a text for participation by law in this Security Council to the Council of Ministers of representatives of the National Assembly. This is about participation in the Security Council, and not only the head of the relevant parliamentary committee, but this is also the most important................................................................... That way, I think we'll keep art. 1, para. 1 of the Bulgarian Constitution. Once again, we are the Republic of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u31	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. You have the floor, Mr. Etem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, we of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms see the laws so proposed as a package, as a more general philosophy which aims to regulate the governance and functioning of the security services. In our view, this is a good step forward in the more general philosophy, which we would not otherwise support if a legislative push was set in a piece to regulate in one direction or another the management of the relevant services. In such proposals, the bill is pleased that the legislation also provides for parliamentary control over the spending of funds by the security services to be entrusted to a committee designated under the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Another joyful fact is that for the Advisory Council a change is envisaged in the Bill, where a representative will be included, i.e. the President of the State Agency.......................................................................................... But what I would like to stress in today's debates is that the drafts under discussion should be a reason for rethinking and for a complete change in the doctrine of national security in which the Bulgarian Muslims should not be considered a threat but should be seen as a natural civilisational barrier for protection for Bulgaria and the European Union before fundamental people and ideologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u33	Thank you, Mr. Etem. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Philip Popov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u34	Right, in groups?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u35	There are no other groups, so I'm starting to repeat myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u36	Not now or not at all?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u37	Are there any MPs from the other parliamentary groups willing to speak? From what has been stated so far, I've given everyone the floor. There are no other willing ones. Mr. Popov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, in the weekly programme from point 1 to point four, we are offered and presented a package of bills related to ensuring the security of our nation and our country, i.e. related to our national security. In accordance with art. 105, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers provides public order and national security and implements the general management of the state administration and of the Armed Forces. Today, however, the Council of Ministers is absent! He is also absent as an importer from these bills.. both on this and on the other three. They are imported by a group of MPs who are obviously concerned about our national security, but the constitutionally described body is absent. This bill, as shown by its title, aims to arrange for the functioning and the system of protection of our national security. However, evident from the texts of the same Draft Law, it does not correspond with the ambitious title, but rather is a regulation or special law for the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. Art. 1 (1) (a) 8 down in the Bill seemed to determine only the powers of this Council. Such a law should contain at least a description of interconnections, mutual control and the exchange of information between agencies, ministries and services related to our national security, their coordination and subordination. However, this is absent from the Bill. It cannot fail to be noticed that at present, the authorities, our national security services seem to have greater coordination with partner services than among themselves. This problem is not solved in our proposed bill. It is written in the Bill that: The national security system is also under civil control and it is further stated that the same is taking place within the framework of their statutory rights.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I ask myself the resonant question: can anyone fully list who are the normal defined rights of the citizens and their organisations through which to exercise control over our national security system?! And the next question is: what is a national security system? Does she have a legal definition? In real terms, Article 4 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are to be applied to the general budget of the European Union and that the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are to be applied to the general budget of the Union. 3 of the Bill lists the bodies and structures of the system, but is this really the system of our national security? a set of bodies and structures?! Isn't the system and its activity the interaction of individual state structures? I submit that the proposed bill thus does not meet the requirements replaced by its own title and the requirements for the description and settlement of a modern modern system and understanding of national security. More than that, in art. 2 of the Bill it is argued that: the state's security is a state of the state. Could a system, even more so, the national security system, be a constant quantity, be a state?! Shouldn't the system be a dynamic organism that meets the challenges of tomorrow? Shouldn't the main function of this system be prevention? Has prevention been described in this common framework bill? The answer is no! In this Law there is no systematization, a comprehensive inventory of our national security system, and this should be its main task. How does this bill respond to today's events - Ukraine, Syria, Corporate Commercial Bank, terrorism and so on? The answer is only one answer in no way! These are only part of the reasons why this Bill cannot be supported at first reading at least because it does not correspond to its own title for the functioning of the national security system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u39	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Honourable Members, admission procedure. Mr. Dragomir Dimitrov, Head of the National Intelligence Service, and Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Head of the DANS, responded as a result of the invitation. Please vote on their admission to plenary. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. The Quaestors, invite the guests. Are there any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are looking at a specific bill. We of the Reformation Block will support the bill at first reading, as it is necessary for the legal regulation of the overall security system, its functioning, the way of decision-making, the face of risks and threats to the state and so on. Of course, there may also be some weaknesses that need to be complemented between first and second readings, but this is not the most important. I would like to focus on a few key points that are extremely important. Here some of the negotiators focused mainly on the legal regulation of the Security Council at the Council of Ministers. This is quite normal and resonant to happen because according to art. 105, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers is the body responsible for public order and security in the country and should have the tools to implement the policies in this area. The Security Council regulation is quite resonant, I would even say that it has been late over the years. Until now, this body has functioned on the basis of a legislative act. Apart from that, I would like to draw attention to art. 5 of the proposed Bill, which reads: "In the management of the national security protection system, notice, first of all, the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Council of Ministers define national interests and priorities, draft and adopt regulations, strategies, concepts, doctrines and action plans. 3. Define the main tasks of the state authorities and bodies referred to in art. 3, para. 1 " and these are all state institutions that are related to national security. " Therefore, the National Assembly, the President and the Council of Ministers jointly define the tasks of the authorities concerned with the protection of national security. There are no excluded institutions, on the contrary, the very arrangement in the Bill indicates which is the main institution in the country that participates in the purpose of national security, namely this is the National Assembly. The Council of Ministers has the operational management of the structures and is therefore established by law by the Security Council, where decisions are taken on operational matters of national security. I would like to make a reply to some of the pre-speakers about the support of the executive bill. At the meeting of all three committees, where the Bill was reviewed, all executive representatives in the face of councilors from the prime minister's political cabinet, representatives of the services supported the bill. It should not be speculated on the fact that just today the examination of the bill coincides with a meeting of the Council of Ministers and the ministers are at this meeting. I'll limit myself here. I won't go into details. I will make some proposals between first and second readings, which will concern good coordination between the National Assembly, the President and the executive authority precisely in the purpose and taking into account the results of the activities of the structures under art. 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u41	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? There is a procedure for admission of a guest to the Chamber. Mr. Antonov, the head of the National Security Service, is here. I put to the vote the proposal that Mr. Antonov be admitted to the Chamber. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Quaestors, invite Mr. Antonov. Mr. Merdjanov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, The draft Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, can safely be used as a visual example of the way the majority management works, many noises, high steam fairy tales, promises and finally nothing. A phantom bill! Words without content, regulations without norms. The mountain went up and gave birth to a mouse. This is the law. Why am I saying all this? I would like to refresh the memory of some MPs because the National Security Advisory Council in question with the President, held in April 2012, has indeed reached a consensus, but on two draft laws, the one about Military Intelligence and the National Intelligence Service. Then the idea arose, and it was proposed by representatives of the opposition, to develop a framework bill. The efforts to develop the framework law then, however, so stirred up the national security system that they led to the Secretary of the Security Council's resignation to the Council of Ministers. Rumen Milanov. Since then, all the efforts of the expert community, representatives of the government, of the National Assembly have been left with no particular result in the development of a really meaningful National Security System Management Act. I say all this because we will witness the realization of a sick ambition of the majority, because this was GERB's first legislative initiative before this National Assembly even started functioning. Instead, today we see the prime minister's screaming absence, the power prime ministers, who came only to fix some presence and some attitude...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u43	They'll come again, Mr. Merdjanov. There's a government meeting going on right now. Sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u44	Madam President, we are a parliamentary republic and the Council of Ministers should observe and comply with their meetings with the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u45	The Republic with parliamentary rule.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u46	And it does not in any way justify the absence of ministers. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] You weren't ready for this debate today because one by one you're getting the head of the service here, and they should have been ready to participate in the morning.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u47	On your suggestion, Mr. Merdjanov. It came from your group, so I kindly invited them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u48	Of course it's our offer. How will we debate without the participation of representatives of these important bodies? We're talking about frivolous behavior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u49	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u50	Let's see what the law says, which, according to the motives of the importers, will regulate coordination between intelligence services and security services. And how does this bill regulate coordination? By referring to a legislative act. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 5 it is said that the heads of bodies and bodies shall coordinate their activities by issuing joint instructions determining the order and manner of interaction. Why do you say, then, that this Law settles matters of coordination? That's not true. These issues are left to go, and they will not be solved by parliament, but by the chiefs of services between them. And don't tell me that this Law is necessary to give the legal basis for such future instructions, because in each of the special laws in each individual service there is a similar provision that empowers and even obliges the Head of State to seek the interaction of the other services and to conclude joint instructions. What, then, do the standards we consider here serve? It's just for one filler. It's the same with the rest of the Law. How can we explain art. 5 For example, which explains what are the functions of the National Assembly, the Council of Ministers and the President? Do you not know, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, that these are also described in the Constitution? If you have forgotten what the Constitution is, I will remind you that this is that basic law, a document that you are in a hurry to change as an alibi for another pseudo-reform, for which you fight in the chest without the slightest idea of what you should do. But let's continue the examination. Doesn't it bother you that the definition of national security in this Law is passed by the one that exists in our legislation? One thing is national security according to this Law, another according to the State Agency Act, thirdly according to the law on protection of classified information. I'm not pointing that out to bully you. The Bulgarian Constitution and legislation provide for opportunities to restrict the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens when exercising them could endanger national security. You yourself understand how important it is then to know exactly what we mean when we say "national security" because it is the only way to control and prevent arbitrage. And instead of making this law clear, unify existing understandings, you bring in a new dose of chaos. Your reform instead of order will cause confusion. In essence, this is the Security Council Act of the Council of Ministers. Fine, but nothing new under the sun. The Council has functioned as such since 1998 and Mr. Tsvetanov quite rightly noted this fact. So far and recently he has been called in connection with the events in Macedonia and without this Law. However, the President will be invited to it through his representatives, and if he wants to personally. Notice that the two representatives are not one, but two. Two presidential members of the Council, led by the Prime Minister, who will vote with an equal vote with half the ministers of the cabinet and the heads of the services. And they're gonna vote what? Proposals and recommendations to the Council of Ministers. Turns out the president is becoming the Prime Minister's advisor. This, apart from constitutionally unacceptable, is also frankly confusing and short-sighted. It undermines the status of the Head of State. GERB from unification has already turned the president into a balance sheeter, and today they are lowering him as an adviser to the prime minister. Maybe that's what he deserves. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] However, as we have said to the advisors, we cannot stress the fact that this Law does not involve any responsibilities, as it contains only advisory activities. The Council of Ministers shall be assisted by the Security Council, the Security Council shall be assisted by the intelligence community and by the Secretariat. The Secretariat shall also perform the functions of a national situational centre whose task is to guess what In a word, you promised us a law that clearly tells us who is doing what in the security system, and you are serving us a mouse from meetings, consultations and advice. At best, the result of this Law will be nothing. In the worse case, it will lead to further confusion in the citizens and demotivation in the employees. I'm saying this about this Law, but I could have said it about the rest of your policies. Your reforming so far is just in words, and when you turn it into legislation, it shines the lack of ideas, there is confusion, scandals. I ask: How long do you think this theater can last? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u51	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u52	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Merdjanov, because you have addressed specific texts, to a large extent including the composition of the Security Council, which in art. 8 it is written that it is an advisory coordinating body of the Council of Ministers on national security issues, do you not think that the composition, as listed in art. Eight is incomplete? For example, the Minister of Health is missing. Perhaps there is also the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Energy, but certainly the Minister of Health, in my opinion, has been missed. Even if we view the so-called Framework Law as the Security Council Act of the Council of Ministers,... [[The President gives a sign that the time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u53	Your group's time is up, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u54	...don't you think that some of the lyrics are not precisely written?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u55	Thank you. Second line. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u56	Thank you, Madam President. I wasn't going to take a cue, but since Mr. Iankov provided his fellow party boy with his doppelganger, I'm going to take advantage of it as a line. No offense, but it's a powerlessness you're demonstrating here just to be an opposition. Everyone is aware that this area of public relations in the state needs its regulation and it is served accordingly by law after 25 years. Let us not argue here about who is more responsible for this, that after 25 years we now come to this regulation. Apart from that, please do not read the texts any way you want. I pointed out in my speech that in the management of the national security protection system, in the first place, the National Assembly, in the second place, the President and third place, the Council of Ministers have their duties. And, I stress, these three institutions define the main tasks of the state authorities and structures that are specified in this Law. This means that there must be a common will in defining the main tasks of these public authorities. Apart from this, it is thrown here several times and a parallel is made between the Advisory Council on National Security and the Security Council at the Council of Ministers. These are two extremely different bodies with absolutely different tasks. The Security Council of the Council of Ministers is an operational body, and the Advisory Council is that high political level where political consensus between political parties is sought, no operational decisions are taken. With regard to coordination, a crucial issue. Of course, we're gonna need the chiefs of staff to sign each other instructions on how they're gonna interact. [[the President signals that time has run out]] And they're going to exchange information because it's classified information, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u57	Third line? A hole, Mr. Merdjanov? You will not use the back. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u58	Madam President, honourable Members! Procedure in the manner of conduct. Madam President, you are sitting upstairs to guide the way in which the sitting is taking place, and you can interrupt the speaker only in case he deviates from the subject, uses offensive epithets or because of any other issues incompatible with the subject, discussions he has made. You've allowed yourself twice in terms of what he was talking about to interrupt it. In my opinion, the right way would be if you had any comments on it, to make them in the form of a replica, rather than as the chair of the sitting up from the stands. This is, in my opinion, the way in which comments are made on the substance. Moreover, you did something else that was completely wrong. You have no reason to make this remark with regard to the Council of Ministers, because even if we assume that the Council of Ministers has a meeting today, nothing has interfered with the importers, the National Assembly's Programme, these bills to be examined tomorrow, when there is no meeting of the Council of Ministers, which basically means that this is speculative, done on purpose, so that there are no representatives of the Council of Ministers here. So you were wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I was obliged to clarify as a result of what were the admission procedures in plenary. I respected the proposal of a MP from your group to invite the chiefs of services. I'm sorry to interrupt Mr. Merdjanov, but if I hadn't done so, it wouldn't have been extended and the time of your group, which I have made for you, not at the suggestion of a MP from your group. Thank you. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, finally after 25 years the Bulgarian National Assembly found that it is high time to pass such a law............................................................................................... However, after 25 years, it is time to ask ourselves the question: is this the Law on Protection of National Security, or is this the Law on Protection of Colonial Security now? What in Bulgaria remained national, tell me? What remained national, independent, sovereign, to come here and accept this creation, which is called the National Security Protection? Someone on the side, if he's watching, will say, "Bre, we're defending national security here, people!" In Bulgaria there was something national, sovereign! You know perfectly well that this is not the case because during these 25 years the Bulgarian National Assembly, the ruling parties, the Council of Ministers, the Presidency did their best to stay as little national as possible and as much as possible...... as you like to express yourself, the partner services will say, what will the other states say, another Alliance organization in which we are a member, what they will tell us. Just think: over the years, how many laws have we adopted in this House that directly affect how the Bulgarian people live? Should not every law that we adopt, including this law, be in the best interests of the Bulgarian people, of the people who sent us to this Chamber? How many laws, how many decisions have we made?! It wasn't the Venice Commission, it tells us, hop, we'll take it right here! I am referring to the National Assembly, of course, to Ataka. I do not include it in this. Now! Says the Venice Commission. A directive from the Council of Europe, from the European Parliament, from where you can think of what they say, is immediately adopted here! Is it in our interest, national, does it ensure the security of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian citizens? Someone from Ataka will speak or someone will say something about it, but the House still accepts it. And in the end, today, after 25 years, we ask ourselves the question; as I listened to the debate, I asked myself: is there national security? She's colonial. We are talking here about how the leaders of political parties, the Prime Minister, respectively the invited ministers and decide certain things about the country, discuss a candidacy, for example. Does anyone in this Chamber believe that the decision regarding the candidacy for the head of the Bulgarian service is taken only here in Bulgaria? Does anyone believe that? You call it a co-operation with the partner services. What does it mean? Prime Minister, let's say, proposes, the president appoints. The President calls the service concerned.. if anyone will tell me whether he is an agent of this office or not, this is a separate matter, and asks:... Can this one be assigned there?................................................................................... Then we say: "We have agreed with the partner services. When they appoint a head of intelligence, for example, in Germany, do they call here to the Bulgarian partner service: Here we appoint a certain person, can we put it on, or not put it on? It is publicly available information "every normal, intelligent, thinking person knows that in Bulgaria, even when members of the Council of Ministers, prime minister, military minister, foreign minister and so on, there is a request again with the respective embassy, for example. I remember the information that was delivered by the newspaper "Standart" if I am not mistaken, in 2013, when the previous government of Boyko Borisov resigned. After a visit to the American Embassy, the Prime Minister resigned at the late Doba. It's a lot, isn't it? It's very colonial, but it's actually colonial. When we talk about security, we need to be guided by the security of Bulgarian citizens - it is also economic security, it is all kinds of security. To make our people live peacefully and happily, to feel secure, not to be subjected all the time to all kinds of domestic crime and economic pressure. Well, we say here what's gonna happen, who's gonna coordinate with who. After all, the importers and those who will support it, can they stand on the stand and clearly and categorically say: "Dear ladies and gentlemen, we assure you that when we adopt this Law, our nation will be secure? Can you guarantee that this Law will do the job? If you guarantee it, if you properly justify it, we are inclined to believe you and even support this bill. What we must do, ladies and gentlemen, is so work our country, such a law to have that regulates which unit how it works. So let's make every meeting actually work for national security. Here I heard speeches about who should be present at this Security Council in the Council of Ministers. Every meeting of the Council of Ministers should actually be a meeting which discusses the national security of Bulgaria! Again, economic, foreign policy, military and so on. By reading the shorthands of the Council of Ministers, I can read all sorts of details, we are doing stupid things. We apologize for this word, but this is so, only to escape from the topic what is done for the important sectors that affect the life of the ordinary Bulgarian. It is clear that this Law, this structure of Bulgarian national security, is consistent with the respective partner services, it is clear that. It's clear they approved it, they gave you permission. I know that this House will support the Bill, but we at the attack can't do that, because we don't think it will lead to anything better. This will be another law on which we will rely when it comes to another scandal that occurred in the services or inspired by the services, a leak of information and so on. But it will not be the Law that will work for Bulgarian citizens. Therefore, we will not support him from Ataka. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. First line? I won't. Anybody else want to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honored guests! In a nutshell, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support this bill. I would like to say a few considerations for which we will support it. Dear colleagues, in the context of an extremely dynamic, asymmetrical regional and global security environment, the lack of a legal basis for the functioning of the competent services to provide us with security is an extremely serious problem for national security and we have nothing to be angry with them when we have not introduced them through the relevant legal techniques opportunities under which, in the new conditions, they guarantee national security of the country. We had the opportunity to make sure in practice of this and of the numerous meetings held by the Temporary Committee of the National Assembly for the draining of KTB. We have seen this, and despite the many reproaches we are throwing at the State Agency, we need to seriously change the regulatory base in order to enable them in the new conditions to work effectively and adequately. Dear colleagues, there is no perfect bill. Undoubtedly, this bill has weaknesses, but I say, leading in our actions here, as MPs, must be its adoption, so that we can still have a basis to perfect. What is the role of special services, honourable Members? The role of special services is informational-analytic. They acquire intelligence and counterintelligence information, conduct appropriate analyses and transmit them to state institutions. The response to these analyses and informations of the special services should be: specific and adequate policies. Policies are generated and implemented by the executive, colleagues. It is therefore very right for the Security Council of the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister personally to be responsible for implementing policies relating to national security activities. This is absolutely right and well designed, because ultimately the executive implements foreign policy, domestic policy and all those measures that need to be taken in order for a normal environment to take place. It is right that the draft should be in the same way informed by the President and the National Assembly, so that there may be control of institutions, mutual control, so that, honourable Members, we between first and second reading will make some proposals, but we believe that this bill should be adopted because for the first time indeed in the Bulgarian reality a specific environment for coordination is created and especially for subordination. Dear colleagues, the work of the special services, especially intelligence, is not conjunctural and cannot be day-to-day. It is strategic and must be implemented for the long term ahead. This is precisely the coordination and involvement of both the President and his people. We will support the Bill and, again, I say, we will make our proposals between first readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u63	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Please invite the Quaestors to invite the ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u64	Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber. I put to the first vote a Bill on the management and functioning of the national security protection system. Vote 147 MPs: 114, against 32, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We move on to item two of the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE STATE AGENCY FOR DISCLOSURE, IMPORTERS: ATANAS ATANASOV AND A GROUP OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES; THE LAW FOR THE AGENCY OF THE AGENCESSION, THE IMPORTERS: TSVETAN COLOTAN AND THE GROUP OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES. The reports of the committees to which the bills are allocated are presented. We are starting with the leading Commission - this is the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence tools and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u65	Mrs. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe The Commission for the Control of Security Services, the Application and Use of Special Intelligence Means and the Access to Data under the Law on Electronic Communications under the State Intelligence Agency Act No 454-01-50, submitted by Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs on 20 November 2014. The Commission, at its regular meeting held on 19 March 2015, examined the State Intelligence Agency Bill, No 454-01-50, submitted by Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs on 20 November 2014. The meeting was attended by Nikolay Nenchev, Minister of Defence, Atanas Samandov, Secretary of Defense and Security, President, Anyu Angelov and Georgi Krastev, advisors to the political cabinet of the Prime Minister, General Major Dragomir Dimitrov, Director of the National Intelligence Service, Colonel. Svetoslav Daskalov, Acting Director of the Service, Military Information. On behalf of the importers Mr. Atanas Atanasov explained the reasons for the bill, pointing out that Bulgaria is too small to support two intelligence services and therefore the formation of an agency is necessary. The lack of legal regulation of the activities of the services, duplication of functions, the spending of significant funds, unhealthy competition, the risk of distortion of information and misleading the state management are part of the arguments supporting a single intelligence structure. Some examples of such an organization of intelligence services in NATO member states were also mentioned. As advantages, Mr. Atanasov pointed out the cost saving, placing tasks and reporting from one place, single analysis and overcoming the so-called service egoism. At the end of his exhibition Mr. Atanasov stressed that since there is a counter-intelligence body in the country, there should be one intelligence body. Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov pointed out that at this stage it is not appropriate to form a single intelligence structure and it is more appropriate to have two separate services. In support of this argument, he highlighted the current threats to the country's national security, as well as the need for continuous coordination and interaction with Euro-Atlantic partners. Mr. Atanas Merdjanov pointed out that his parliamentary group would not support the bill. Mr. Ayhan Etem pointed out that the DPS would not support the Bill. Mr. Angelov stressed that this issue had been dealt with in 2012 at a meeting of the Advisory Council on National Security and all participants were of the same opinion that the country needed two reconnaissances. Putting a hat on the two reconnaissances would result in a filter of information and negative consequences for the authority using this information. Mr. Samandov pointed out that at this stage it is more appropriate to pass the two laws for military intelligence and for the State Agency of Intelligence. Major General Dimitrov examined the possible positives as well as the shortcomings of the Law and the unification of the two services. The Acting Director of the Service "Military information" (Colonel Daskalov) shared in detail the experience of the NATO countries, pointing out that there is no universal model, but the practice of two intelligence services prevails. Point out that military intelligence is a type of combat insurance necessary for the planning of operations. According to him, it is more appropriate to form an analytical body over both services in order to better coordinate and unify the intelligence product. After the debate on the vote with 2 votes for the vote, 6 abstentions and 4 abstentions, the Commission rejected the proposed Bill for the State Intelligence Agency. On the basis of the above, the Commission proposes that the National Assembly should not adopt a Draft for the State Intelligence Agency, No 454-01-50, submitted by Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs on 20 November 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u66	Give her the second report on the second bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u67	♪ I can't believe to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence resources and access to the data under the Law on Electronic Communications under the Law on State Agency Intelligence, No 554-01-48, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. The Commission, at its regular meeting held on 19 March 2015, examined the State Agency's Intelligence Act, No 554-01-48, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. The meeting was attended by Petya Tyankova, Secretary for Legal Affairs and the President, Atanas Samandov, Secretary for Defence and Security and the President, Anyu Angelov and Georgi Krastev, advisors to the political cabinet of the Prime Minister, Major General Dragomir Dimitrov, Director of the National Intelligence Service. At the beginning of the meeting on behalf of the importers Tsvetan Tsvetanov outlined the reasons for the draft by focusing on the institutional place of the State Agency......................................................................................................... The provision of information to other public authorities, organisations and persons is regulated. The principle established in our country is preserved that the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister are provided with the same volume and content information. Cooperation with intelligence bodies of other countries and structures in NATO and the European Union is regulated. It is certain that the Agency is headed by a chairman who is appointed by a decree of the President on a proposal from the Council of Ministers for a period of 5 years. Specially focused on the proposal to introduce a new figure for Bulgarian intelligence in the Draft. It is proposed to be directly subordinate to the President, but to be appointed by the Prime Minister and to be able to report to him in the event of an order from the President to suspend or not be initiated. Mr. Miho Mihov spoke in support of the Bill and the demilitaryization of the Office. Point out some notes that will provide for discussion between the two readings. Mr. Atanas Merdjanov, on behalf of BSP, left Bulgaria expressed support for the bill and appealed for better financial insurance of the Agency. Mr. Ayhan Etem also expressed support for the Bill on behalf of the DPS parliamentary group. The gentlemen Angelov, Samandov and Krastev expressed support for the bill. The Director of the National Intelligence Service Major General Dimitrov in his speech made a brief retrospective of the history of the Bill of April 2012, stressing that it reflected all the proposals and changes made during the Forty-first National Assembly. He pointed out that the passage of the State Agency of Intelligence in submission to the Council of Ministers will have a positive impact on the work and that the duplicate functions with other services have been avoided. Highlights on the improvement of internal control through the introduction of the work of the inspector and points out that the bill is good and meets the needs. After the debate on the vote with 17 votes for the vote, without the opposition and the abstentions, the Commission approved the proposed Bill for the State Agency of Intelligence. On the basis of the above, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Agency of Intelligence, No 554-01-48, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u68	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. We will now hear the reports of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u69	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a Bill for the State Intelligence Agency, No 454-01-50, submitted by Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs on 20 November 2014. At a regular meeting held on 1 April 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed a Draft for the State Intelligence Agency, No 454-01-50, submitted by Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs on 20 November 2014. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Council of Ministers: Georgi Krastev and General Anyu Angelov The draft of the State Intelligence Agency was presented by the importer Atanas Atanasov. Mr. Atanasov pointed out that the drafting of the bill is related to increasing the efficiency of the structures in the state that are engaged in intelligence activities. This objective is achieved by the establishment of a single intelligence body that provides the principles for the interaction and coordination of the intelligence services that exist separately to date. The setting of tasks, analysis and conclusions from the foreign and military information collected from a single centre is one of the most important arguments for reforming this important sector for national security. The division of services so far has not been able to take into account the new challenges, as well as to point out good results in bringing together its efforts and coordination of its activities. An argument in favour of the Bill is that it creates the possibility of budget savings. The importer pointed out that the legal regulation of existing structures so far is a small step, but a positive, effective and rational result can be achieved by bringing together the activities and maintaining the relative autonomy of the so-called civil and military intelligence. In the current existence of two separate structures, the activity takes place in counterproductive competition. Expressed its view that the Security Council of the Council of Ministers is not a body to carry out primary information collection activities but a body to adopt decisions on the basis of the authorities that collect and process it. The creation of a common structure to collect and analyse information coming from different channels is a very important process, proven by the practice in many European countries. Point out that the need for regulation and adoption of a Law for a single state intelligence agency is undisputed. The representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the prime minister's advisers expressed their opinion that the unification of the two services is a complex process requiring long-term preliminary preparation, as well as the single leadership of the intelligence services should be taken over by the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Homeland Security and Public Order with 1 vote...... 3 votes against................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Here's the second report: ♪ I can't believe The Commission on Internal Security and Public Order for the First Reading of the Draft Law on the State Intelligence Agency, No 554-01-48, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. At its meeting on 1 April 2015, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined a draft Law on the State Agency for Intelligence, No 554-01-48, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Council of Ministers.. Georgi Krastev and General Anyu Angelov, advisors of the Prime Minister; by the Ministry of Defence: Iliya Nalbantov, Head of the Minister's Office, General Atanas Zaprianov. Advisor of the Minister, and Colonel Getov from the Ministry of Military Information............................ The bill was presented by the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov. In his exhibition, the people's representative noted the importance of the submitted Bill and added that it should be seen as a bill submitted by the Parliamentary Group of GERB and supported by the ABB. In addition, he stressed that the topic was accompanied by many debates, held from 2012 until now, including in the Advisory Council with the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, where a political consensus has been reached about the future State Intelligence Agency moving on to the executive power. The People's Representative Tsvetanov added that this bill introduces a new figure of Bulgarian intelligence, which will be directly subordinate to the President, but will be appointed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. The representative of the Council of Ministers Georgi Krastev expressed full support for the submitted bill, stressing that its practical implementation is imperative given the complex and controversial international environment. Dragomir Dimitrov of the National Intelligence Service pointed out that the inspector is an essential element of the internal control mechanism and assists the President of the State Agency with regard to compliance with the legislation and internal rules, conditions and procedures for carrying out special financial costs, prevention and disclosure of conflicts of interest. In the subsequent debate were the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Mustafa Karadayi and Atanas Atanasov. Support was expressed for the submitted bill by asking supplementary questions about the role and importance of the figure. The Committee on Homeland Security and Public Order with 12 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u70	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. With the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs Mr. Yavor Haytov will introduce us to the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe To the Committee on Legal Affairs for the First Voting of a Draft Law on the State Agency for Intelligence, No 554-01-48, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015, and a Draft for the State Agency for Intelligence, No 454-01-50, submitted by Atanas Petrov Atanasov and a group of MPs on 20 November 2014. At its meeting held on 25 March 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft for the State Agency of Intelligence, No 554-01-48, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015, and a Draft for the State Intelligence Agency, No 454-01-50, submitted by Atanas Petrov Atanasov and a group of MPs on 20 November 2014. The meeting was attended by: from the Presidency of the Republic of Bulgaria: Gen. Atanas Samandov, Secretary for Defence and Security, and Mrs Petya Tyankova, Secretary for Legal Affairs; from the Council of Ministers: Mr. Anyu Angelov and Mr. Georgi Krastev On behalf of the importers, the Law on the State Agency of Intelligence, No 554-01-48, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev and a group of MPs, was presented by Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov. After arguing the need for a new comprehensive legal framework of the security sector of the country, Mr. Tsvetanov emphasized on the main provisions of the Bill, which regulate the intelligence activity in the Republic of Bulgaria with the exception of military intelligence. The provisions of the Draft Law are subject to the structure, management and activity of the State Intelligence Agency, as well as the status of its employees. It is definitely the Agency's place in the executive system, expressly providing for a ban on the assignment of tasks of an internal political nature to the Agency. An obligation is envisaged for the Agency to provide equal volume and content information to the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. The Agency's interaction with other bodies and agencies and cooperation with the intelligence authorities of other countries is regulated. In order to exercise control over the activity, in order to prevent and detect offences, as well as to improve the quality and effectiveness of the performance of the activities carried out, a special body is provided for Provision shall be made for the status of the Agency's staff, their requirements and the occurrence, content and termination of their service. Mr. Tsvetanov stressed that the adoption of the bill would be in full compliance with the practice of the member states of the European Union and NATO for clear regulation of the activities and powers of the state authorities in the field of national security. On behalf of the importers, the Bill for the State Agency of Intelligence, No 454-01-50, submitted by Atanas Petrov Atanasov and a group of MPs, was presented by Mr. Atanas Atanasov. The bill proposes the establishment of a single intelligence service. The general provisions, the principles of activity, the main tasks and activities of the Agency, the management and control of its activities, the structure and the management bodies, as well as the overall arrangements of the status of its employees are envisaged. Mr. Atanasov noted that given the importance of the intelligence function, it would be useful to manage this activity from one place. The Bill aims to reform the current factual situation in order to achieve greater efficiency. According to the importers of the bill, the existence of two intelligence services in the state leads to duplication of intelligence activities. The provision of a single structure and a single leadership aims at greater security when submitting intelligence information to the senior state authorities. Support for the bill submitted by Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov, said Mrs. Petya Tyankova, Secretary for Legal Affairs of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and Mr. Georgi Krastev. Mr. Krastev noted that the bill was drawn up by a working group with the participation of experts from all institutions that are relevant to security issues. In the discussion of the drafts took part the MPs Dimitar Delchev, Petar Slavov, Danail Kirilov, Dimitar Lazarov and Yavor Haytov. Having noted the possibility of fixes the arrangements on certain issues, such as financial control over intelligence services, the figure of the inspector, the powers of the services and others, they have united around the need to adopt a regulation on intelligence activities. After the vote was taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes, without the opposition, and 4 votes, abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Law on the State Agency........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u71	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. On behalf of the importers under the first bill, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, reports have shown that there are two bills of the same name, but with different content. The bill we are proposing from the Reformation Block aims to create a single intelligence service. Currently, the Bulgarian State has two separate intelligence services. The National Intelligence Service and the Military Information Service at the Ministry of Defence. In short, I think Bulgaria is too small to have two intelligence services and support such structures. However, this is the superficial view of the problem. Without going back much, I would like to point out, in retrospect, that the structures that currently exist and operate without the necessary legal regulation for 25 years are, in practice, descendants of the structures of the communist state in the block division of the world during the Cold War. This is important to emphasise. I do not want to ideologize the dispute, I want us to look rationally at these issues, because the state's intelligence function is extremely important for the provision of quality information to the senior authorities of government and for decision-making. Maybe in some way it sounds provocative, colleagues, that's what it's like in Germany. Germany has a unified intelligence service. Eighty-five million Germany has a single intelligence service, seven million Bulgaria has two. That's in terms of proportions. It's about efficiency. In practice, in the existence of two intelligence structures with similar subject-matter, we very often have duplication of activities, very often working on the same objects and tasks, which is an unnecessary cost of financial resources. The creation of a single intelligence service in practice enables budget savings, although when talking about such an important activity as intelligence, not the amount of funds are the most important, but cannot be overlooked this issue too. After all, accurate and timely information is always at the heart of making the right decisions. Unfortunately, since this activity, according to specifics and character, remains out of the public eye, because in a major part of the cases, not to say in all their activities, it is about classified information, there is no counterproductive competition that exists between these two services, which often leads to the submission of different information on the same problem. I would like to say that from the Reformation Block with this bill we propose to implement in addition to the legal regulation of this activity, reform. The adoption of two separate laws for two separate intelligence services effectively legitimizes the existing factual situation that does not satisfy us as a way of working. I know the arguments of the people who defend the status quo. They say: The Reformers want to liquidate Military Intelligence, which has great traditions in Bulgaria. "This is not true and this can only be said by people who have not read the texts of the Law. We propose in the single structure to preserve the autonomy of the units that need to collect military information. By the way, an important detail: it should not be entrusted to a structure such as Military Intelligence to collect military political information, because it opens a door for gathering information that is not the subject of the Office's activities. The Military Information Service should gather information only on the risks of a military nature. Very often I have had the opportunity to witness this on the Criminal Information Channels, which is unacceptable. Here I say: why not use the country's resources? This information may be valuable, only that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria must be politically neutral. This is a serious argument to think about should there be a special service that is part of the Armed Forces? Both in large countries and in our partners there are military intelligences that only deploy in military operations. They do not operate when the structures of the respective Armed Forces are not in military operations. That's the way it is in Britain, that's the way it is in France. I don't want to go back to Germany again, but Germany is still a modern state, and I am sure that its intelligence is extremely effective. I do not want to point out examples from the Balkan region, but until recently, until 25 years ago, political opponents of Bulgaria have united intelligence services. Aren't they effective?! Apart from this, an extremely important argument, ladies and gentlemen, the threats and risks to Bulgaria's national security since 1989, that is, the People's Republic of Bulgaria no longer exists. We live in a completely changed world, and we must direct our intelligence efforts to other points of the world, not to engage, including our partners. Last but not least, something extremely important. I know this is on the brink of state secrecy, but I want to tell you that the Military Information Service, the so-called Military Intelligence, has a larger personnel and uses a greater financial resource for its activities, which is unacceptable. It is unacceptable for the main intelligence service, such as the NRS, to have smaller personnel and to use smaller financial resources. By the way, no one can say what is the financial resource used by the Military Intelligence Service for clear reasons. Let someone not be annoyed, but I do know that the defenders of the status quo, especially for the existence of Military Intelligence, have economic comfort and fear it will be broken. There are few economic entities, companies that, in the form of intelligence, allegedly in favour of the state, carry out very good and profitable transactions, and no one knows where the profits of these transactions go. These are the people who want to keep the status quo, except we have other tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u73	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. We will take 30 minutes off, then continue with the presentation of the second bill on behalf of its importers. We'll continue at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u74	Honourable Members of Parliament, the meeting is continuing. We will now hear the presentation of the second bill. On behalf of the importers there is the word of the Lord Tsvetanov. We're listening, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will present the reasons under the State Agency Act. It is part of the overall package that we are looking at today in plenary. Of course, we heard the motives of the importer colleague Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs. Our proposal as importers of the Bill, which I will now present to you, is slightly different from the point of view that we are maintaining the independence of the State Agency of Intelligence, as well as of the "Military Information" and are separate, separate units in the security system. At the beginning of the Bill, a definition of the concept is given of the "Research Information" and lists the areas of activities of the Agency in which it collects such information and conducts intelligence operations. It is explicitly stated that the State Agency of Intelligence does not place tasks of an internal political nature so that absolutely all doubts of a political nature and any political statements to affect the security sector can actually be dropped. The principle established in our country is preserved that the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister are given equal volume and content information. The bill regulates the President's right, agreed with the Prime Minister, to assign tasks to the Agency and to get acquainted with the report on its activities prior to its submission by the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly. The powers of the Council of Ministers are also defined in relation to the Agency, expressed in proposals to the President for the appointment of the Director-General, in the appointment of his alternates, in the validation of an annual plan and in the adoption of the annual report. It is explicitly stated that the Agency is involved in the activities of NATO and the European Union intelligence communities, which leads to understanding cooperation not as administrative subordination, but as participation in a mechanism for the exchange of information, establishment of positions and assistance in the decision-making of the relevant authorities. It is also determined that the Agency is headed by a chairman who is appointed by the President's Decree on a proposal from the Council of Ministers for a term of five years. The Chair shall be assisted by Vice-Presidents appointed by a Decision of the Council of Ministers also for a period of five years. The bill fully regulates the powers of the President, with additional responsibilities being entrusted to him only by law. With the bill it is proposed to introduce a new figure in Bulgarian intelligence, this is the inspector. It is proposed to be directly subordinate to the President, but to be appointed by the Prime Minister and to be able to report to him in the event of an order from the President to suspend or not be initiated. The Bill proposes to introduce certain restrictions when working with personal data, given the peculiarities of the intelligence activity in the interest of national security. Certain restrictions are proposed which concern the application of the provisions on financial control only in respect of the special costs defined in the Additional provision of the Bill. The special costs are related to the conduct of activities to carry out the main tasks of the Agency by preparing and carrying out intelligence-specific activities, intelligence operations and others. The main objective is to protect the information relating to the conduct of intelligence activities as far as possible. The Office of the State Agency is implemented by civilians who may be persons working in service, civil servants and persons working in employment. The reporting and control bodies of the service are designated. A significant part of the issues relating to the activities of the State Agency for Intelligence in terms of coordination and interaction are resolved in the framework law, which was presented only an hour ago. The proposed bill concerns activities of exclusive national competence and is without prejudice to European Union law. Its adoption will be in full compliance with the practice of the Member States of the European Union and NATO as a whole and are clearly regulated in the activities and competences of the state authorities in the field of national security. I would like to make it clear to you that when the Advisory Council with the President was held on 25 April 2012, it actually came to a political consensus, which enabled the draft laws that we are dealing with today, and the State Intelligence Agency to move on to the executive power and to be directly subordinate to the Prime Minister. You know that at present, the National Intelligence Service is competent and subject to the authority of the President of the country. Given that the overall competence of the organisation, coordination, analyticalness to be made and taking into account all potential risks and threats in security dynamics, we consider this to be the real right decision.................................................................................... In this way, we will be able to give the real platform, which will be much more useful for the implementation of the designated objectives, which are assigned to the State Agency of Intelligence. I believe that the way information in equal volume will be provided to the President of Parliament, the President and the Prime Minister means that there will be reciprocity, respect and respect for all institutions. I am convinced that this will be effective for future protection plans and for the activities that our national security will have and will be implemented by the competent authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u76	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Colleagues, we have heard the presentation of the two bills by their importers. The debate is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in it to give a sign. Here you go. Mr. Todorov, then Mr. Dubov, then Mr. Velizar Enchev, then Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u77	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I want to focus on the bill proposed by Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. I must warn you right now that even if you have good intentions, it will be a stillborn agency. I will argue why we at Ataka feel that way. If we start reading carefully the proposed Bill, as soon as possible. 10, para. 1 We see that the future State Agency will use special intelligence resources on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria as well. This proposal goes beyond Orwell's expectations in his novel in 1884, that the Big Brother will receive such enormous power, provided that today there are two such state agencies using special intelligence tools and eavesdropping on the territory of Bulgaria. Such are the State Agency "Technical Operations" and the State Agency "National Security." I ask: who needs the third intelligence agency to use special intelligence resources?! This will lead to complete and total control in 6-million-dollar Bulgaria to use three agencies to eavesdrop. I don't know, is there a similar analogy all over Europe?! Further on in art. 11, p. 1 We read that: The "Study" provides intelligence information to the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Ministers. In this regard, I ask: why did you decide only in part? Why not provide indicative information to the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the Vice-President of the Republic of Bulgaria? How exactly did you choose these positions? I'm moving on. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. 2 You can see something extremely disturbing, which will inspire me to use an ugly word at home services. It became clear from the entire bill, at least I didn't see anything, if I was wrong, please correct me, to have a competitive start in hiring employees to the future Agency. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, p. 2 says: The election of the President's staff is not subject to appeal. How is it not subject to appeal?! Without a contest, we hire someone and no one can appeal? If you see the Law on the Civil Serviceman, you will see that at each competition start the candidates for the given position have the right to appeal their non-destination. What do you want us to do to create another service with first-class people and to appoint aunts, uncles, friends and acquaintances of this and that?! Similarly, as before, these services will not have the expertise and capacity of people prepared to work. How can we hire people without a contest?! Take your Euro-Atlantic partners, for example, the UK intelligence services. There are job contests all over the place. Take the intelligence services beyond the Atlantic in the United States, the CIA and the Diffens Intelligence Agency, and in all other intelligence agencies the appointment there takes place again after a competition! [[Noise and lines.]] In the Russian also takes place after a competition, everywhere is performed through a competition, only you in Bulgaria offer to be without a competition so that you can appoint your friends and family and thus possess the security services. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That's right! After that: in art. 46 We read that: The examination and selection of candidates is determined by an act of the President. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28, p. 1 Read: The Agency can process personal data by not requiring consent and not informing the person concerned. Excuse me, do you want us to create a democratic intelligence service, or do you want us to make some modern NKVD analogue?! You what?! In this way you present to the whole society the idea of your Agency having the legal right to process the personal data of 6 or 7 million Bulgarians without requiring their consent, even without informing them about it?! What's that?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u78	It's an intelligence agency, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u79	After that.................................................................................. 72: The employment of civil servants is considered to be first category of work. Yes, well, I would like to ask you something, given the future budget of this agency. Mr. Tsvetanov, it is clear to all of us that the funds will not be enough to carry out missions abroad and the main function of this State Agency will be information-analytic. Then I ask the following question: a person who sits in front of the computer and reads newspapers, thus creating his information-analytic reports, as has happened so far because of the lack of money, unfortunately, why does this person have to be first category labor? What threatens his safety, his life, his health from sitting in front of the computer?! Then these people will have to be paid huge benefits. The most important thing that worries me is that nowhere in the future structure of the State Intelligence Agency, we do not see a unit for the so-called scientific intelligence. Why is there no scientific and technical intelligence? Do we give up on him? Apparently, our partners, that is, masters, have decided that Bulgaria will never be an industrial state again, and for this reason we do not need scientific and technical intelligence, only malls, hotels, prostitutes with excuses, and guards. [[Radio.]] This must be Bulgaria, right? Why are you giving up the thesis and the idea of having scientific and technical intelligence? You say it. Each Member State of the European Union and NATO has similar scientific and technical intelligence. Why are you giving this up? I would like to say to you that at this stage we cannot support your proposed Bill and I really appeal to make the necessary changes because we are creating a stillborn intelligence. I'm telling you again: lack of competitions. We see the requirements of the Chairman of the Agency are that he should be a Master. Okay, but Master of what? In an agrarian economy, in what? Let's describe: to be a master of national security or something else. Because otherwise we get what we see in today's government: Minister of the Interior, a sociologist, Minister of Defense, a lawyer farmer, I don't mind, Minister of the Economy. We see the new Chief of Military Intelligence, I have nothing against the man, but he's a metallurg by education. I'm very sorry, but a metallugger running my military intelligence is more than weird. So, when you elect this chairman, let's write a Master's degree in what, because tomorrow you can appoint someone who is a Master's Master of Professional Guitar from New Bulgarian University. Then I would also like to ask something else why we should propose it, and the President should approve it. Okay, the president will approve it, but can't we do a competition for the people of the structure itself, for those people who worked there for 15-20 years who know what this is about? To make a competition and the highest quality of these people, who is the most qualified, with the most knowledge, to lead it? Why is it politically necessary to decide who should be chairman of the State Intelligence Agency? Let's make it an inside man from the system who knows what it's about. No, you want to offer a political person to carry out political orders for you, absolute nepotism, to appoint your staff, which you decide and thus possess the security services. There's no way we can support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u80	Any lines to Mr. Todorov? I won't. He has the word Mr. Dubov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The draft law on the State Agency of Intelligence, submitted by a group of MPs from GERB, largely meets the needs and needs of civilian intelligence. This in the new story is also the first independent Intelligence Act, as we know that so far the activity has been regulated by the Defense and Armed Forces Act. This Agency is subject to the Council of Ministers, although the importers are today another group of MPs, not the Council of Ministers. In the Bill it is regulated that the Agency's officials are demilitary, the service will be carried out by civilians working in civil service as civil servants and others in employment. The scope of work on the collection of intelligence information and the conduct of intelligence operations is sufficiently clearly defined. The State Agency is not entrusted with intelligence and it will not perform, it must not carry out domestic tasks. Cooperation with the intelligence communities of other countries, as well as NATO and European Union structures, while maintaining the necessary independence of the service, namely by exchanging information, forming positions and supporting decision-making by the management bodies, is also clearly indicated. The bill also introduces a new figure in the Bulgarian intelligence officer. To a certain extent, this is a controversial position. The inspector is subordinate to the President of the State Agency......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The inspector may report, even directly to the Prime Minister on certain actions to the Chair of the Agency. This really leads not only to controversial relationships, to creating tensions between him and the Chair of the Agency, but can also lead to dualism in her actions, to say it in a simple language, to some degree of intrigue. There is a similar structure in Central Intelligence and it is probably used there, but in the United States the inspector is appointed by the President of the United States, subordinate directly to it and accountable to the President of the United States. There is a difference, although they are moving in a package, with the other intelligence service. However, in DAR, the State Intelligence Agency, the President and the deputies perform their functions next to the Prime Minister's new proposals, and in the service of Military Information, the concept of a welded proposal is introduced. That's why we're gonna talk about the next bill. In conclusion, I can say that we from BSP left Bulgaria and we will support the submitted Bill from the group of MPs from GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u82	Thank you, Mr. Dubov. - What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u83	Madam President, colleagues! I will focus only on Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov's Bill, as I think he deserves our attention. I believe that in this Bill there is a very important article..................................................................................... 5, which states that the State Agency is not entrusted with internal policy tasks, but in the following articles it is the opposite. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the failure to impose tasks of an internal political nature means that the National Intelligence Service, and now called the State Intelligence Agency, is not entitled to work on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and is not entitled to work on and against Bulgarian citizens, which does not exclude the possibility of working with Bulgarian citizens. On this occasion, I would just point out that the existence of territorial units of the National Intelligence Service throughout the country, especially in Southwestern Bulgaria and Northern Bulgaria, to some extent contradicts written and unwritten rules, as the DS before 10 November is bad when there are territorial units in the territory of the People's Republic of Bulgaria, but now territorial units of NRS, listening, listening to and following Bulgarian citizens, is legal. But that's why I'll stop a little later in the remaining minutes until the end of my speech. I think it's art. Five is fundamental, and he's really good, but we're going to art. 10, which states that the implementation of the Agency's activities is ensured by.. listen carefully to para. 1 "Use of special intelligence resources in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under conditions and by order defined by the Special Intelligence Funds Act." "This text insists and will shape it as a proposal between first and second readings, should fall because, first, this text of art. 10, para. Article 1 is contrary to Article 1. 5 of this Law. Let me repeat once again what art. 5: The State Agency is not entrusted with internal policy tasks. I believe Art. 10, para. 1 It is not a harmless text, accidentally found in this draft law, but it is the legitimization of something illegal. The work on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and the work on Bulgarian and Bulgarian citizens by the Bulgarian foreign policy intelligence. The same in art. 10, para. Three is scandalous. It reads: "Acceptance to the cooperation of persons under the conditions and by the order defined by the President of the Agency. "I propose and I propose to the subparagraph to add to the paragraph cooperation of persons.. Foreign nationals under conditions and by order defined by the President of the Agency, because otherwise the possibility of the National Intelligence Service to work in Bulgarian territory against Bulgarian citizens under Bulgarian citizens is legalized by violating art. 5 of this Law. Article 11 "I will in part repeat myself with my previous speech on the bill already adopted at first reading, states that the Agency provides intelligence information to the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the ministers and so on. And, as I was well spoken before, the party-speaking Ataka, on what grounds have you put these three institutions, and you have forgotten many others? I believe that, by the name of the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Defence and National Security Committee should be added here, and why not, I will propose this to all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. However, we are going to art. 28, which is even more outrageous. Article 28 reads: "In the Agency personal data can be processed. The processing of personal data shall not require consent or inform the person concerned. I believe that this should be added: the consent is not sought and the information is not made available to the person concerned. I add: a foreign citizen to make sure that the State Agency will work only abroad, not in the territory of Bulgaria and only in both against and with foreign citizens. However, art. Art. 62, Art. 63, I think, are the most outrageous. In fact, I have the feeling that I am reading a bill from three years ago when the same was proposed by GERB party, but due to a coincidence of circumstances could not pass in parliament. I'm quoting art. 62: In the performance of their duties, the civil servants of the Agency shall be entitled to carry arms under the condition and order laid down by an act of the President. And we're going to art. 63 which also states a member who basically incorporates police and gendarmerie functions of Bulgarian foreign intelligence and transforms our scouts abroad into gendarmers and policemen. Listen to what functions it assigns them and if any of you vote on this text really or have not read the law or is guided by other thoughts. Article 63 states that, in the performance of their duties, the civil intelligence officers can use physical force and the support funds do you know who they are? art. 63, para. 2: The aids are handcuffs, rubber, plastic, assault electric shock batons. Do you think that an external intelligence officer of Bulgaria can deal with similar gendarmerie and police functions? And if you don't think I'm going to suggest it, this text is imperative that we drop if we want to have an intelligence service, not a police and a gendarmerie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u84	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Belemezov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Discussing the subject of national security, we should bear in mind that the preparation and submission of a package of laws after more than 25 years after the democratic changes will have for the first time a comprehensive legal settlement of the structure and functioning of the National Intelligence Service, the National Security Service and the Security Council to the Council of Ministers. It is quite natural that when adopting the bills purely chronologically first in order, as we have actually done today, the law on the management and functioning of the national security system should be adopted, at least because in other projects there are references to texts from it. The fundamental reason for this is that there is a sufficient dose of resonance to rejuvenate itself that through the Law we will have the opportunity to increase the efficiency of the harnessed three services and that the necessary coordination between them will be ensured. Speaking of coordination and introduction of more order in the management of the services, we need to make a few comments about Mr. Atanasov's Bill. First of all, I share the view that in some countries of the European Union, as Germany is, which he mentioned today in the Chamber, uniform mechanisms for the management of intelligence have been established. Secondly, despite this fact, the situation in Bulgaria is radically different. Thirdly, in any case, it is not a bad idea, but it certainly cannot be defined whether it is now the most appropriate time for the merger of the two intelligence services, for the following reasons: in the process of the merger of the two services, structures will be affected, and for a very long period of time, perhaps a year and a half, why not two, in which a period of presumption can be assumed that efficiency in our intelligence as a whole will be lost, and that we should not be able to afford it. Secondly, I believe that there are no analyses prepared for the expected results if we adopt such an act today. Thirdly, in my opinion, there are no basic regulations in the Law on how the subordination will be formed in the management of a new intelligence service. In fourth place, tension will inevitably be created between the intelligence service personnel. In view of this, they will fall under the blows of competition, and in this respect.................... in certain circumstances..................................................................... And in fifth place, in the end, when adopting such an act it is not clear that we are looking at two similar bills today, to whom will the newly formed office of President, Prime Minister, Council of Ministers and so on be reported. To conclude, fellow Members, once again, I stress that there is a certain dose of constructiveism in the idea. I refer to Mr. Atanasov's idea, but stressed at the moment that this is not the time for such a cardinal change in the Bulgarian services. I say this because the decisions that will result from today's plenary day should bring an additional dose of optimism, transparency and stability to the services. I believe that the situation is currently difficult and because of another fact from yesterday, the appointment by the Minister of Defence of Mr. Yordan Bakalov as the new Chief of Military Intelligence. Subsequently, there are several questions in the intelligence services and in the Bulgarian public, namely: what is the urgency in making such a decision on the eve, colleagues, of adopting a package of laws concerning precisely national security? I think we're in a very delicate and specific situation. Such a cardinal change in intelligence would bring more stress and tension than balancing the services themselves. And as for the GERB Bill, we are in this regard with Gen. Mihov and the colleagues from the parliamentary group will express our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u86	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. I've been informed that Mr. Yordan Bakalov is here. I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission to plenary. We vote. Vote 94 MPs: 91 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Quaestors, invite Mr. Bakalov to the hall. Colleagues, are there any other MPs who would like to speak? Here you are, Mr. Mihov, and then Mr. Rosen Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We at the Patriotic Front are delighted that after 25 years of system party governance, most of all, the Bulgarian Parliament will finally make decisions important for the system of national security and we are glad that with the adoption of these laws the system will receive its legislative basis. Next, we express our reservations to the idea presented in the Draft of our colleagues from the Reformation Block for the merger of the two main intelligence services............................................................................................ Our arguments for this are related to the specifics and history of the Bulgarian military intelligence. Without going into the details of history, we have to say that it has 110 years of history and has proven its effectiveness and today the assessments of our NATO partners continue and verify this historical truth. Next, we believe that the inclusion of the Military Information Service in a common agency will create serious problems that will lead to a tear between strategic military intelligence and operational intelligence, which is now developing into a common system, starting from the preparation of the personnel to its supreme leadership. Next, we note that in the Law on State Agency of Intelligence, later it will be mentioned in the Military Information Act, certain provisions are laid down to protect these institutions from, we can say, political pressure related to severe consequences for the institutions themselves, for the collaborators and the agent of these institutions. We reserve the right between first and second readings to import supplements to ensure that these two institutions, these two intelligence agencies, will be protected from political interference which was too inappropriate in certain cases implemented by the Commission's Records and Activity Act. We demand an increase in the deadline for disclosure of the information on the activities of these two institutions and their collaborators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u88	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Petrov, we're listening to your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I did not intend to speak, because I think that today is a good day for Bulgarian democracy... really after 25 years, in which the services worked without law and on a decree from 1990, to finally introduce some regulation, but just some of the speeches made me take a stand. I think we should respect the work of the Bulgarian scout because it is strictly specific, it requires huge efforts, huge preparation and he is forced to do it in a financially not very strong country. Therefore, we must pay tribute to their work. Second, in the notorious dispute between art. 5, that foreign intelligence in the State Intelligence Agency is not used for internal policy purposes, if you ask the Director, or at a closed meeting he will explain to you that the use of special intelligence means and in the territory of Bulgaria can also be part of external intelligence, because in Bulgaria there exist extra-steritorial units is very close to the mind. I'm not gonna bother the audience anymore, let's not waste any more time. It's really nice that after 25 years, the services will finally work under the law. I hope this will give them a new beginning, a new beginning of statehood in them and in this tense environment that surrounds us already from the East, the South, that, from the West, they will fulfill their duty to the state and to our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u90	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. - What's the line? [[Reply from the National Representative Velizar Enchev.]] You don't have a minute, Mr. Enchev. [[Reply from the National Representative Velizar Enchev.]] But the line goes into the five minutes you have in total, I'm sorry. Any other MPs? Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, as it became clear from the statement of Mr. Dubov, BSP left Bulgaria will support the Bill for the State Agency................................ not only because the activities of the Bulgarian civilian foreign intelligence should finally find its own legal framework, but also because of the fact that unlike the National Security Service Bill submitted by the government, this Bill offers real and real changes in the existing framework of the National Intelligence Service, perhaps the most visible of them are the devoenization and its categorically determined subordination of the government. It is precisely in view of the latter, however, that we cannot fail to note the power of the President in the bill to place tasks on the Agency in consultation with the Council of Ministers. In what capacity could the President do this?! Yes, under the Constitution he is the supreme commander of the Armed Forces and heads the National Security Advisory Council according to Art. 100 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, and so on. It seems to us that with such a mandate of the President, it transcends the constitutional role of the President in the security sector and the established balance between the President and the government. And when it comes to balance, questions also raise the figure proposed by the Law of the Inspector of the Intelligence Agency, which is appointed by the Prime Minister on a proposal from its President. Its activities have been defined within quite broad limits by the carrying out of control functions in the conduct of state policy in the Agency, through the prevention and detection of violations, to improve the quality and effectiveness of the performance of the functions assigned to the Office and activities. However, unlike the President of the Agency, the inspector does not have a mandate but, under the bill, when ordered not to initiate or terminate an inspection, he shall report it to the Prime Minister. Yes, but it's the Prime Minister, according to art. 13, p. 1 of the bill puts tasks on the Agency? What exactly will the inspector control in this regard? Isn't this how the Prime Minister's responsibility for the Agency's work is blurred? And the responsibility of the Chairman of the Agency itself? And if this figure is a good tool for such a relationship, why not reproduce it in other security services, such as the State Agency for National Security and the State Agency for Industrial Operations? We are not questioning the fact that the State Agency is to be subordinate to the Council of Ministers or, in other words, to the Prime Minister, a fact which is present and relevant to the other two security services DANS and DATO. It also agrees with the constitutional responsibility of the supreme executive body in the state to ensure public order and national security. And that is why such concentration of powers in this so sensitive area of public relations implies the most clear and adequate mechanism of control not only of the services but also of their immediate supervisor. This is necessary in order to minimise the risk of abuse of such power on them, which has always existed and, as the close management practices of the past show, especially in the management of Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u92	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Ermenkov, we're listening to your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u93	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I will take account of the bill submitted by Mr. Atanasov and the idea of bringing the two intelligence services together. The reasons for unification of the National Intelligence Service and the Military Information Service at the Ministry of Defence at the State Intelligence Agency, as we have heard from the importer, contain false statements, I would say, tendential statements that give a deliberate aspiration to justify a proposal in the context of failure of the arguments, and I will try to argue that. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] We're going into dialogue again. I'm being provoked here, Madam President, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u94	Colleagues, please, without a call from the scene, you will have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u95	I will explain one more time when there are no arguments, there is an aspiration for trendy justification. That's what I meant. A little more complicated, I hope this time you understand. The reference to the practice of other countries such as the United States and Germany, which we have also heard from the importer, apart from inappropriate selection, is also false. The inappropriate selection we heard just now is why Bulgaria and Germany should not be compared. Why isn't it true? I'll explain it to you now. The German Federal Intelligence Service has a department and deputy chief of military affairs, however, military intelligence in the Ministry of Defence also covers strategic intelligence, not just operational and tactical, concerning troops directly. I mean, we have a service there, too. I won't mention the United States of America where, apart from the Military Intelligence Agency, there is intelligence of individual types of armed forces that have nothing to do with civilian intelligence. If we compare ourselves with countries such as Austria, Denmark, Sweden and Poland, and others, we will see that military strategic intelligence, which is working only abroad, functions separately and is in the structure of the Ministry of Defence. In Denmark there is, among other things, a military intelligence service leading foreign military intelligence and a counterintelligence service that corresponded to our former VCR. Denmark also has a separate intelligence service. Of course, there are also cases of unification, but they have a very controversial professional nature. These are in Spain, the ill-fated SISNI, which was to civilian intelligence in Spain. Only as persistently defended ignorance can it be called the proposal of unification protected by people who neither have a concept of matter nor can they be called generals or experts. They seem to want to destroy military intelligence without being interested in the fact that it is the most highly appreciated in NATO. Elementary is incomprehensible only to some representatives of the Reformation Bloc, the Minister of Defence, his parliamentary secretary and some advisors. How are you going to decapitate a body consisting of strategic, operational and tactical military intelligence serving the army above all else, and transfer its head to another service? How will civilian service place specific tasks on military intelligence when it doesn't even know the needs of the army? How is it that the defenders of this idea did not read at least one or two books on this topic to educate themselves shortly before making such proposals?! Our defenders of the idea of unifying foreign policy and military-strategic intelligence do not realize that this violates another fundamental principle of intelligence. In intelligence, information must be detected by several sources and checked. The evaluation of this information by only one supervisor, for example, if we have one, and we agree to have a single intelligence agency, and the presentation of the President, the President of Parliament and the Prime Minister, could have fatal consequences in some cases, gentlemen reformers! You know this best because it was Ivan Kostov who, as prime minister, gave a report to Military Intelligence and did so because he was dissatisfied with the report of the National Intelligence Service. It is thanks to the fact that there was another service, that correct decisions were made in Bulgaria's foreign policy at this time. If it were a service, I wonder what would have happened! The reason for duplication of activities is not legitimate because military intelligence has its specifics as a subject of activity, as well as as the preparation and specialization of personnel, and as an analysis of information. The new non-traditional threats led to some duplication, but so decided the state leadership, placing tasks on the services on the most recent, urgent and important issues concerning the security of the state so that they could be dealt with by various aspects. Indeed, duplication will occur if this Law is adopted. I'll explain why. Because the Ministry of Defense is bound to remain operational and tactical military intelligence. There's no way it's going to go to civilian. There's no one to run it. The experience of the mechanical formation of the DANS, I think we have seen enough that it is loaded with negative negatives. From the relevant section in the White Paper of Defense, we see that the Military Police have replaced functions that were previously functions of Military Counterintelligence. Here, it's a duplication. I'm sure that's exactly what's going to happen when we create a gift, assuming that strategic intelligence goes there and preserves operational intelligence in the Ministry of Defense. For these reasons, based on purely professional and no political motives, I will not support this Bill at first reading. I call on all Members of Parliament to refrain from such admission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I won't. Personal explanation Mr. Atanasov, although there is no way they can talk about your bill as an importer and not mention you by name. The fact is that you are asked with the signature of the Bill. There were other qualifications. I listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u97	I won't repeat the qualifications. I didn't want to ideologize this important subject, but I will allow myself to say something that will not appeal to the left of this House. Mr. Ermenkov, perhaps you continue to carry out the tasks of those structures you served before 1989? The fact that a RUMNO collaborator is attacking this Bill means we're on the right track. Whether you like it or not you admit it or not...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u98	Mr. Atanasov, so far your statement seems like a line to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u99	I'll tell her what I came out for. I am a general from the Bulgarian services after 1989 and you were a regular associate of the RUMNO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u100	We've entered personal explanation mode. Is there a second line because that was essentially a line to Mr. Ermenkov's statement? I won't. You have the floor for the coat, Mr. Ermenkov. Please, no personal attacks and awareness of the House, most of which we do not know what this is about. Please, correct!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u101	Colleagues, once again, I would like to explain that this is not about personal attacks or political disagreements. It's about professionalism. I think that in both speeches you can make the difference which was professional and which was personal in terms of speech. That's it! I don't want to say anything else! You do your own assessment of who cares about the state, whether it has worked for this country at the time and has not changed its positions, or was, how to call it a whipping between law enforcement and criminal authorities in socialism and criticism today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u102	Any other speeches? Mr. Ethem wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The DPS Parliamentary Group, as in my previous speech, will support the proposed projects of Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, because we believe that this is the way in our homeland can finally regulate governance and functional relations between different services. This bill is part of them. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will not support the proposed Draft by the National Representative Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs with the following arguments. We do not share the views in which the importers disagree that the Military Information Service, or Military Intelligence, will be associated with the civilian intelligence as separate substructures of the State Intelligence Agency, which is intended to be established. What is the point of doing this, given that they are also currently structured on their own, since they will retain their autonomy afterwards? For me it is a very strange argument to hear Atanas Atanasov that a major argument is to save budget funds. You know very well that when it comes to national security, to the security of citizens, this is a minor fact, and we should not be guided by purely populist speeches, to conduct a policy that would jeopardize both the security of our country and of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u104	Thank you, Mr. Etem. - What's the line? Mr. Atanasov will replicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u105	Thank you, Madam President. In my speech, I explicitly stressed that budget funds can be saved, but this is not the most important case, because, when it comes to national security and intelligence, this activity should be financially provided. However, I would like to draw your attention to something that you clearly do not understand. When we have two intelligence structures and they produce their own product, i.e. extracting specific information, who will analyse this information to make a general decision? Maybe the Prime Minister should turn him into an analyst?! You understand that the main purpose of the creation of a single intelligence service is to produce a common product. Let's get the analysis done inside the structure. Otherwise, there is no level at which this analysis can be done, i.e. on the same topic, there is mixed information from the two structures and the Prime Minister should analyse it himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u106	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u107	Colleagues, a very brief line to the speaker. It would be very simple and much better if the two intelligence services combined their efforts for national security and did not compete, as we have often seen in the past. I'm competing may not be the right word, but I'm trying to be softer in my words. That is, not two competing services to monitor each other, but with joint efforts under the hat of a state, to actually direct their efforts to ensure national security. Here is a simple explanation why in many European countries, indeed, these services are united under a common hat and it coordinates their efforts for national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u108	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Etem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Atanasov, I may have missed this part of your speech, but the place where policies are agreed and decisions on the policies of the executive is precisely the Council of Ministers. As far as you are aware, the proposed draft laws and the previous bill we voted on set up a Security Council. That's where these decisions are made. To the extent that Mr. Slavov's reply to this, I do not agree and I do not believe that any Bulgarian officer at the expense of his colleague on a competitive pretext would mislead any Bulgarian statesman or politician. My request is to have more faith in our officers. They deserve and I believe they will justify this trust.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u110	Thank you, Mr. Etem. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? There aren't any. The debate is closed. I call on the Members of the House to vote. I put to the first vote the Bill on the State Intelligence Agency with importers Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs. The committees do not support this bill. They voted 121 MPs: 14 against 35, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Bill on the State Agency of Intelligence with importers Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. Vote 131 MPs: 122 against 4, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Moving to point three of the weekly program: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR MILK DISCLOSURE. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. Report of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Here you go, Mr. Dedev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u111	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe On 11 March 2015, KSFISSDDZES submitted by Tsvetan Genchev and a group of MPs to the Military Intelligence Act, No 554-01-47, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. The Commission at its regular meeting held on 19 March 2015 examined the Military Intelligence Bill, No 554-01-47, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. The meeting was attended by Nikolay Nenchev, Minister of Defence, Atanas Samandov, Secretary of Defence and Security to the President, Anyu Angelov and Georgi Krastev. At the beginning of the meeting on behalf of the importers Tsvetan Tsvetanov outlined the reasons for the bill, focusing on the legal regulation of the organization, activities, tasks and functioning of intelligence in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria as well as on the regulation of cooperation with the military intelligence authorities of other countries and structures in NATO and the European Union. [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u112	Excuse me, Mr. Dedev. Please, Members of the National Assembly, let the paths be released so that normal working conditions can be available. Sorry, Mr. Dedev, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u113	Mr. Tsvetanov referred to the leadership of Military Intelligence, both by the Minister of Defence and the Chief of Defence for the Bulgarian Army, specifically stressing the fact that military intelligence structures are not entrusted with internal political tasks and that they do not collect, process and analyse information of an internal political nature. The same argued that the management of the Office was carried out by a director who was appointed for a period of five years by decree of the President on a proposal from the Council of Ministers and emphasized on the President's balancing role in the appointment and appointment of the Director of the Office. He examined in detail the coordination and interaction of Military Intelligence with state authorities and institutions, as well as NATO and European Union structures, and pointed out that at strategic level it is carried out by the Military Information Service and at operational and tactical level in carrying out the intelligence support of the Bulgarian military contingents the interaction is carried out by the Joint Command of Forces or by the commanders of the types of armed forces. At the end of his presentation Mr. Tsvetanov stressed that the draft was the product of political consultations in the period 2012 - 2013, the discussion in the Advisory Council on National Security with the President in 2013 and the discussions in society and the non-governmental sector in this period, and that all proposals for amendment and supplement of the Draft Law between the first and second readings of the 41st National Assembly found place in it. Mr. Miho Mihov expressed support on behalf of his parliamentary group as a co-worker of the Bill, focusing on his background from the 41st National Assembly, the place of Bulgarian military intelligence in the international intelligence community, his leadership, status and tasks. He pointed out that, as a rule in most countries, military intelligence is led by a military officer of the military rank and this rule should also be found in the Draft Law between the two readings, as well as regulating the interaction between military intelligence and other special services in missions and operations outside the country. Mr. Krastev pointed out the need to adopt such a law and expressed support. Mr. Angelov briefly stopped at the background of the Draft Law, as well as the need to regulate the intelligence activities at strategic, operational and tactical level and provide information on the planning of operations and expressed support. Minister Nenchev expressed his support of the law, pointing out that he will propose some amendments between the two readings. Mr. Atanas Atanasov stressed that the Reformation bloc will support the Draft Law at first reading in order to regulate the activities of military intelligence. At the same time, he stressed the need to establish a single intelligence service in the country, arguing with the changed geostrategic situation and the need to change the intelligence management system. Mr. Atanas Merdjanov, on behalf of his parliamentary group, expressed support for the bill. Mr. Ayhan Etem also, on behalf of the parliamentary group, expressed support for the bill. The Acting Director of the Military Information Service. Svetoslav Daskalov highlighted the participation of the Office in the preparation of the Draft Law in the period 2011 - 2013 and the use of best practices in this direction in NATO in order to improve the overall system of military intelligence. After the 16-vote vote on the vote was closed, without the opposition and the abstentions, the Commission approved the proposed Military Intelligence Bill. On the basis of the above, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Military Intelligence Bill, No 554-01-47, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u114	Thank you, Mr. Dedev. I give the floor to General. Miho Mihov, Chairman of the Defence Committee, will present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable gentlemen of the Deputy Ministers and Directors of the Special Services! ♪ I can't believe on the Military Intelligence Bill, No 554-01-47, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. At a regular meeting held on 19 March 2015, the Defence Committee discussed at first reading the Military Intelligence Bill, No 554-01-47, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. 19 MPs attended the meeting. It was attended by Defence Minister Nikola Nenchev, political cabinet chief Iliya Nalbantov, Defence Minister Atanas Zapreyanov, Parliamentary Secretary Plamen Darakchiev, Head of Service of Military Information and then Svetoslav Daskalov and Prime Minister Anyu Angelov's adviser. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Plamen Manushev. As a collaborator, the people's representative Miho Mihov made an addition. The submitted project is an improved version of the Military Intelligence Act submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2012, adopted at first reading by the Committee on Foreign Policy and Defence at the 41st National Assembly, held on 19 December 2012. The bill proposes legal regulation of the organization, activities, tasks and functioning of intelligence in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria as well as the status of its employees. The powers and responsibilities of the authorities for its management are described. Cooperation with the military intelligence authorities of other countries and structures in NATO and the EU is regulated. It is said that military intelligence is involved in the activities of NATO and EU intelligence communities. It is explicitly stated that military intelligence structures are not entrusted with internal political tasks and that they do not collect, process and analyse information of this nature. The draft Military Intelligence Act sets out in detail the tasks, structure and management of the Military Information Service, which implements strategic military intelligence and supports the structures involved in operational and tactical military intelligence. The provisions concerning the Military Information Service are in line with its direct submission to the Minister of Defence. The order for informing the higher authorities of state power and other state institutions is laid down. The grounds for limiting access to information in accordance with the need for its protection are set out. The Military Intelligence Act lays down in detail the status of employees who may be servicemen, civil servants of service and civil servants of employment. The necessary reference has been made to the Defence and Armed Forces Act, the Civil Service Act and the Labour Code. The necessary legal basis has been established for the creation of information funds and for the processing of personal data in the interest of national security according to the competence of the Office. The restriction is reflected that the cases of foreign nationals who cooperate with the Office are not made available to the Commission on the files due to the limitations of the Law. The financial and other funds for the implementation of the Law will be provided by the budget of the Ministry of Defence. The proposed bill concerns activities of exclusive national competence and does not concern European Union law. Its adoption will be in full compliance with the practice of the Member States and the Union as a whole for the clear regulation of the activities and competences of state institutions in the field of national security. In the discussion of the draft took part the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov, Yanko Yankov, Hristo Gadzhev, Angel Naydenov, Vladimir Toshev, Petar Slavov and representatives of the Ministry of Defence who did not present an official opinion of the Ministry of the Law. After hearing the reasons and discussion, 19 MPs took part in the vote. The Defence Committee adopted the following decision by 18 votes for the Council and one abstentionee: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Military Intelligence Bill, No 554-01-47, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u116	Thank you, General. Mihov. Mr. Emil Dimitrov has the floor to present the report to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote, vh. No 553-03-44 of 1 April 2015 on the Military Intelligence Bill, No 554-01-47, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. At its meeting held on 25 March 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Military Intelligence Bill, No 554-01-47, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by: from the Presidency of the Republic of Bulgaria: Gen. Atanas Samandov, Secretary for Defence and Security, and Mrs Petya Tiankova, Secretary for Legal Affairs; from the Council of Ministers: Mr. Anyu Angelov and Mr. Georgi Krastev, Counselors in the Political Office; from the Ministry of Defence: Mr. Iliya Nalbantov, Head of the Cabinet of the Minister of Defence, Mr. Svetoslav Daskalov, Executive Director of the Ministry of Defence and Mr. Plamen Darakchiev, Secretary of the State Agency of National Security. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov. The Bill regulates the organisation, activities, tasks and functioning of military intelligence, as well as the status of the employees who carry it out. The principles based on which military intelligence is carried out are drawn. Mr. Tsvetanov emphasized on the specifics in the work of military intelligence, which required the adoption of a separate law for him. In this way, the commitments made by the army to partner services and the respective missions can also be taken into account. The Bill explicitly states that military intelligence cannot be entrusted with internal political tasks and that it does not collect, process, analyse or store information of an internal political nature. The coordination and interaction of military intelligence with state authorities and institutions, as well as NATO and European Union structures, is regulated. The bill provides for military intelligence to be organised in a single centralised process and to be carried out at a strategic, operational and tactical level. Strategic intelligence is organized and implemented by the Military Information Service. At operational level, intelligence is led by the commander of the Joint Command of Forces or by the commanders of the types of armed forces, and at tactical level by the commanders (commanders) of the military formations. The adoption of proposals aims to ensure an opportunity to increase efficiency in the activities of military intelligence. In the discussion of the bill took part the MPs Dimitar Delchev, Petar Slavov, Danail Kirilov, Dimitar Lazarov and Yavor Haytov. By raising the issue of financial security and noting the possibility of clarifying the arrangements on certain issues, such as financial control of intelligence services and the powers of the services, they united around the need to adopt a regulation on intelligence activities. Following a vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 13 votes...................................................................................................... and 4 votes................................................................................................................................................. Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs: Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u118	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. The Commission's internal affairs and security report follows. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Dimitrov presented the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The draft is allocated to the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Atanasov, please submit the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u119	♪ I can't believe on the Military Intelligence Bill, No 554-01-47, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. At its meeting on 1 April 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Military Intelligence Bill, No 554-01-47, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Council of Ministers: Georgi Krastev and General Anyu Angelov. The bill was presented by the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov. In his exhibition, the people's representative noted the importance of the submitted Bill and added that at the beginning of the debate, there were opinions and opinions to unite civilian and military intelligence, but as a result of expert opinions, the division was decided to remain due to the specific needs of the army and those of military intelligence contributing to the information security of our Euro-Atlantic partners in missions abroad. The representative of the Council of Ministers Georgi Krastev expressed his full support for the submitted Draft, stressing that it is particularly important to use the opportunities that the Law on the structure and functioning of the system for protection of national security already adopted in the parliamentary committees, because it focuses on the coordination, advisory process, enables to shape and implement a network approach, a greater degree of cooperation between the services in Bulgaria and internationally. Its practical implementation is imperative given the complex and controversial international environment. Anyu Angelov pointed out that military intelligence is the only intelligence structure of the country that has worked in a legal environment so far, and added that the Military Intelligence Act should also be seen as an opportunity for intelligence provision of the defence minister, who has direct obligations to secure the defence of the country Ilija Nalbantov from the Ministry of Defence expressed full support for the submitted bill by pointing out that such a law would create that framework which gives sustainability for the work of the intelligence community in a future legal framework which is essential in relation to the challenges facing the country in the future. People's representatives were involved in the debate: Atanas Merdjanov, who expressed support for the submitted bill; as well as Atanas Atanasov, who highlighted serious weaknesses in the proposed bill, contradictions with the Bill on Intelligence and the duplication of tasks, preserving the right to mark the most important arguments and disagreements in the plenary. The Committee on Homeland Security and Public Order with 10 votes for the military intelligence bill, No 554-01-47, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u120	Thank you, General Atanasov. Mrs. Karayancheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u121	Mr President, honourable Members, I propose that we extend the working time to the final vote on points three and four on the agenda of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u122	Disgusting opinion? I won't. Voting regime to extend working hours until the adoption of points 3 and 4 of the National Assembly's agenda for today's order. Vote 72 MPs: 57 against 3, abstention 12. [[Noise and lines.]] There's no quorum. [[Noise and lines.]] Name check. [[Executing noise and lines.]] Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is a Quorum because I saw that they voted over 70 people, but there simply wasn't enough votes to accept the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u124	You're suggesting a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u125	I propose a re-vote procedure, as colleagues are still entering, and for this reason we may have this gap, Mr. Chairman. I would appreciate it if you would re-vote the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u126	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Re-vote. Vote mode, please, repeat. There's more guys coming in, that's good. For colleagues who are now entering the Chamber, we are voting on Ms. Karayancheva's proposal to extend the working time until the examination of points 3 and 4 and their adoption on today's plenary day of the National Assembly. Voting mode. I see more MPs are coming into the room. Please vote. Did everyone vote? Vote 89 MPs: 76 against 2, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov has the floor to present the motives to the Military Intelligence Act. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u127	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will present the reasons for the Bill relating to the Military Intelligence Act and I believe that it will be part of the really comprehensive comprehensive approach that we have applied to the security sector over the last few months and to the legislative changes that are being made in this direction. Of course, what had as initial attitudes by the Advisory Council in 2012, since April, with the president of the country, there have been debates on the unification of military and civilian intelligence. Since then, this topic has been quite discussed and it has dropped as an opportunity to be accepted in the Bulgarian Parliament. Of course, when we are already talking about the Military Intelligence Act, I want to state the main motives that I think are sufficient to actually support the Bill at first reading and simply beg all colleagues who would make the relevant reasonable proposals between first and second reading to be taken into account. It is extremely important to me that with the laws that have been dealt with today, we will actually fill a legal vacuum, which has also been mentioned by the pre-speakers in the presentation and speeches that have been made to fill this legal vacuum. The bill proposes legal regulation for the organization, activities, tasks and functioning of the intelligence of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria as well as the status of its employees. Cooperation with the military intelligence authorities of other countries and structures in NATO and the European Union is regulated. It is explicitly stated that military intelligence is involved in the activities of the NATO and European Union intelligence community. It is explicitly stated that military intelligence structures are not entrusted with internal political tasks and that they do not collect, process and analyse information of an internal political nature. The management of the office shall be carried out by a director who shall be appointed for a period of five years by decree of the President on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. The Director may be a military officer or a civilian. The Director of the Office shall be assisted by Deputy Directors who may be civil servants appointed by the Director of the Office in accordance with the order of the Labour Code, in consultation with the Minister of Defence. The Military Intelligence Bill lays down in detail the status of employees who may be servicemen, civilians, employees of the service and civil servants of the employment relationship. There is a need to refer to the Defence and Armed Forces Act, the Civil Service Act and the Labour Code. A procedure for appointment to the service has been laid down for military information which takes place on its own. The co-ordination and interaction of military intelligence with state authorities and institutions, as well as with NATO and European Union structures, are relatively detailed. It is carried out by the Military Information Service at operational and tactical level in carrying out intelligence support of the Bulgarian military contingents. The interaction shall be carried out by the Joint Command of the Forces or Commanders of the Armed Forces. I would like to emphasise here that we have an extremely high recognition from our Euro-Atlantic partners in the previously implemented commitments that military intelligence has undertaken. And here I would like to thank all the previous defence ministers, who have indeed always maintained a continuity in the work of "Military information" (Military information), but, of course, we can now really unite our efforts on the Bill we are looking at and which will contribute to optimizing the relevant activity of "Military information" (Military information). The bill pays due attention to the self-instruction of the activities of the Office.. Military information.. with a view to protecting internal security and information, the necessary legal basis is established to create information funds and to process personal data in the interests of national security, in accordance with the competences of the Office. The proposed bill concerns activities of exceptional national competence and does not concern European Union law. Its adoption will be in full compliance with the practice of the Member States and of the Union as a whole to clearly regulate the activities and competences of state institutions in the field of national security. We propose the bill, if it is adopted at first and second reading, of course, as soon as it enters into force, we believe that we will actually be able to create better optimal opportunities for the overall security sector, including for Military Information. The only thing I could add on the establishment and the Military Intelligence Act is that we will actually be able to maintain this independence of military intelligence, which you understand yourself, people who have been involved in and have been able to inform by the relevant committees that have relevant competences in parliamentary control, know what specifics are and how important it is to preserve and preserve this specific activity and to be in support of NATO's overall, collective security and, of course, to be part of the security that is for our region and our country as a whole. Thank you. I hope that we will actually have a meaningful debate that will also be enriched with the relevant proposals between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u128	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. I'm opening the debate on the Military Intelligence Bill. You have the floor. Here you go, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u129	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House, Directors and Chairs of the Agencies and of the Services! I am satisfied with the Military Intelligence Bill, and I think we will have a good legal basis for it. The main dignity of the Bill is the clear regulation and structuring of the intelligence activities at the three levels of the Strategic, Operational and Tactical Level. And yet, if you would allow me to express myself in this way, metaphorically, the grey area of the legal framework of the service and the outline of the status, including the appointment, preparation, personnel development and the performance of the service by military intelligence officers. Another is the question, in the shadows somehow remains the regulation for the employees of this whole circle of questions by the intelligence structures of the Bulgarian Army, i.e. in the management bodies and in the military formations of the types of armed forces. And it must be clear whether they share the general employee, the general status of the Bulgarian Army employees under the Defence and Armed Forces Act, and respectively whether they have any specific features under the Military Intelligence Act, which regulates the activities of the Service as a whole. It is also worthy to regulate the activities of the Military Information Service, including the cooperation and exchange of intelligence with partner services, or the activities of joint operations respectively. There was certainly a need for comprehensive, of course, within the limits of texts, including because of the security and accordingly the professional stability of the servicemen concerned with the activities of the Military Information Service and Military Intelligence as a whole. In fact, it is hardly necessary to speak about the merits of the Bill anymore. They dominate and this determines the position of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria to support the proposed bill. I must stress that the draft, which we are now discussing, takes into account all the notes from the time of the preliminary discussions of the draft package, which are taken into account a large part of the notes that are in the joint expert working groups that were working on these drafts, and account is taken of the observations of the Office itself............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The bill, by the way, is the best response to doubts about duplication of functions, the scattering of resources, or, figuratively speaking, unhealthy competition between Military Intelligence and the State Intelligence Agency, or the reserves expressed in the Chamber, including with regard to the proposal for the merger of the two military services. Anyone who carefully reads the two bills would understand why the proposal for the merger of the two intelligence services should not be supported, and I do not intend to spend any more time. Traditions are not a bad thing, and if one of the arguments for maintaining the independence of the Service is a long-standing Bulgarian tradition, I see nothing disturbing in the use of such an argument. Duplication and optimization of resources can and should therefore be avoided through participation in the intelligence community. How many cases of duplication of information or work on the same site by both services? In my direct impressions, I personally do not know that there is a duplication of the activities of the services. As far as information is concerned, it is negligible to use as an argument for the merger of the two services. With the Military Intelligence Bill, I would like to point out that an option has been validated, which was adopted in the Forty-first National Assembly on the proposal of the then Minister of Defence, the Director of the Military Information Service, to be occupied by a civilian. This was an option to avoid the clash between the Minister of Defence and President Parvanov, respectively, twice with regard to the proposal for Director of the Office. I am pleased with the fact that I will, of course, support the proposal in this case to have a military officer with a senior rank and a civilian to take up this position, in the lead position, I would like to emphasise to the military officer with a senior officer's rank. However, I would like to use this text and, accordingly, this comment, including in the presence of the newly appointed Director of the Military Information Service, to say that the new appointment, in my opinion, contradicts at least three points of the draft. What requirements is one contradiction to be met by the Director of the Military Information Service? If you pay attention to the initial texts, the criterion for 10 years of professional experience was missed. In this Bill, which we are now discussing, there is this text, and I ask myself: is this not the reason why he has been hastened literally for hours to appoint the new Director of the Service? Or another requirement to respect political neutrality. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, what political neutrality can be observed or sought in the appointment of a sincere political appointment?! An honest political assignment! I know the newly appointed director very well. I have no doubt about his erudition. I had a proposal for the positions he could have taken, but I do not think it is politically neutral to appoint with regard to the Military Information Service. And in that sense, I would say that this is a precedent in terms of appointments to the Military Information Service. I do not understand the stubbornness that has been shown in terms of the appointment and the proposal, including, of course, once again, I would stress, in my view, the frankly provocative behaviour of the Minister of Defence with this appointment. I'd like to point out one more thing. The impression that is acquired, but which can be cleared, for the isolation of the Chief of Defence from the activities and the product of the Office.. Military information................................................................................. Yes, the practice enables the Minister to consult certain tasks or to provide analyses and information reports to the Chief of Defence, but this should, in my opinion, be a manifestation of not protocol courtesy, but a legal possibility. I stress that this can be cleared and, in this sense, I do not see any other texts that cause reservations and doubts. Once again, we will support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u130	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. First line? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Somehow it would have been fair when Peevski's candidacy for the head of the National Security Agency was proposed and approved in this House, Mr. Naydenov, should have made that statement. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] It would have been strong, and it would have been objective. Most people in this room know Yordan Bakalov. He's a serious professional and his professional qualities, I think they can hardly be denied by anyone. In this sense, when I listen to such statements and see their injustice, all the more so if Mr. Bakalov is elected to this post, I am convinced that he will show the same impartiality as Minister of the Interior. There you saw that in his work there were no nuances, there were no political biases, there was just professionalism. He is currently depoliticized, he has stated, and in this situation in an expert so far conversation, Mr. Naydenov, to bring in another political bias, given all the negative experience we remember from the Oresharski cabinet, it seems inappropriate and contrary to all the professional tone in which the debate has been conducted so far. Otherwise, the Law itself now allows for the head of this organization to be elected a civilian. It's not for a reason, it's been written like this all these years. The question is that he should be authoritative, that he should be a professional, that he should have the necessary experience in order to perform his duties conscientiously, that is what this is all about. But I have a feeling that pain is actually elsewhere, that pain is actually opening up, revealing military intelligence files. I have a feeling that that's where your pain is and that's why the emotions come from your speech. Something that needs to be done and this page needs to be closed. It is high time that when we talk about transparency, about seeking the truth, this issue is finally resolved. I think he's actually bothering you more. Why is it bothering you? We'll find out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u132	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Second line? I won't. Mr. Naydenov, the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, if you see something disturbing in the proposal for a change in the Law and respectively in the proposal for appointment of Mr. Peevski as Chairman of the National Security Agency, I do not see why you use this argument with regard to Mr. Bakalov. [[Laughter]] Are you experiencing any interference, I presume? I think that analogy was totally inappropriate and inappropriate. In fact, the political nuance in the otherwise professional debate on military intelligence has been introduced indirectly by you, rather your political power through the appointment and persistence that your parliamentary group broadcast, respectively, by your political forces, Minister of Defence. I am not for a reason stressing: this is a precedent in the structure of military intelligence! If you look back in the years, if you look at 25 years ahead, there have always been personnel appointments for the heads of the services, let me say.. professionals in terms of military intelligence, precisely because of the desire not to party, political influence in military intelligence structures, including in general with regard to the Ministry of Defence. No one has allowed himself in structures of direct subordination to the Minister of Defence such political influence as is currently being done as an impact and as an appointment to the Ministry of Defence. Never! As for the arguments about the files, they were not present in my speech. I have pointed out, in my view, the contradictions with the bill that we are discussing and which I hope will be adopted. By what logic does the current director meet the requirement of ten years of professional experience in the structures of the national security system or the Armed Forces?! By what logic?! By which logic and exactly what will happen after this bill is adopted, after there is an obligation under art. 23 of the Bill to be implemented within one month, including for the Managing Director, the requirements to be met by this Law?! What exactly is going to happen?! Or will you influence your coalition partners from GERB, as the Minister of Defence promised to make some changes between first and second readings?! Will they be in the direction of better legislation or precision of the texts regarding the work of the ministry, or will they be at those moments that disturb you from the point of view of the respective assignment?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u134	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u135	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honored guests! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the proposed bill. Our observations are as follows. Our assessment I would like to address to the importers is that the bill is good. Some suggestions may have to be made between first and second readings, but it is good because: First of all, we believe that the Military Information Service, or the Military Intelligence Agency, must continue to be an autonomous service, at the direct disposal of the Minister of Defence, because in the current conditions, as has been said, the Ministry of Defence as the main principal of the defence sector is necessarily beginning to transform in terms of its functions. The role of the Armed Forces, of our military units, which acquire different objectives in the NATO system, and capabilities, are not just a reflection of a direct military threat. Very often, the Ministry of Defense needs online intelligence. This information is extremely important for the national security of the country. True, from what existed so far, and what I've heard as arguments from Gen. Atanasov, who were exposed, these arguments have reason. There was often a duplication of functions that were not in the interest of national security, at least on the part of public expenditure. We are convinced that in the first Law that we have adopted now, the Framework Law, with the creation of the Security Council, these problems will be cleared and there will be clear differentiation, coordination and subordination of functions and military intelligence. It is extremely important that they already have their own Law on which they will work. The bill we are about to vote on is also a good one because it is clearly regulated who is putting the tasks and who is exercising the control. In my opinion, the social status of the people who work in the system is clearly defined under the Defence Act, which is maintained under the Law on the Civil Service and the Labour Code. There is also a serious section on the social status of the relatives and families of the servicemen who are in the military intelligence system. Dear colleagues, what we may see as proposals between first and second readings is for a better system of internal control and coordination in the military intelligence system and possible improvement of coordination between the Military Intelligence Agency and other services. This is extremely important at the modern stage.. as we said in modern threats and modern realities. Dear colleagues, I say again, we will support the bill. We believe that it is good and will be one plus to the national security system of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u136	Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Velizar Enchev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u137	Madam President, colleagues! For the fifth hour we have witnessed a violation of parliamentaryism. Here, on the right of the stands, the Minister of Defence must be..... and also the Deputy Prime Minister who is monitoring this portfolio. They're both gone. The excuse is that there is a meeting of the Council of Ministers. I repeat, this is a rude violation of parliamentaryism, disregarding the will of the MPs. The executive power for which path is being lived as legislative and treats you, not me, not everyone who opposes this government and government, as obedient pawns, who will vote everything, even in the absence of the ministers and importers of the law. This is the first challenge to parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u138	Don't talk nonsense! The importers are here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u139	Where's the minister? I don't see him. [[Reply of MP Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u140	Please, no lines!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u141	Please stay calm, sir. I don't want that time taken into account. The first challenge is the absence of the Minister of Defense. There's nothing to argue with you here, sir! The second challenge Mr. Nanchev appointed a few days ago without waiting for the adoption of the Law today Mr. Yordan Bakalov as Director of the Military Information Service. Doesn't that offend you all, honourable Members of the House? The Minister of Defence shows a complete disregard for the MPs who are preparing the Law on Military Information and a few hours before the adoption of this law he says: "No, I will do my appointment without interested in what you will vote on. Mr. Bakalov has just stated that you are reading at the BGNES Agency that he will give the requested files of the Office of Military Information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u142	Mr. Enchev, please concentrate on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u143	Right away on the bill, Madam President. Art. 32 states, I address Mr. Kasabov. Mr. Kasabov, with this statement you are already contradicting art. 32, thank God he hasn't been accepted yet. It states: "It is not permissible to provide information on sources, methods, means and means of obtaining intelligence, on the personnel's composition and on persons who are collaborators, as well as information that would endanger national security or could harm or pose a risk of significant damage to employees and employees. That's what art. 32, para. Four, which Mr. Bakalov is ready to go down. I hope he doesn't go down after we adopt this Law with this article and paragraph. I hope that he will not be able to keep this promise of his, but his statement shows me to say it directly, legal bankruptcy. Apparently, he hasn't read the bill we're about to vote on. Should the Chief of Military Information be a civilian or military? Between the two readings, I will propose the following text: Why? Because it is unacceptable for all personnel of the service to apply the Defence and Armed Forces Act with its requirements and limitations but not to apply to the Director of the Service. Dear colleagues, this is how the Constitution is violated. The Constitution's requirements are for equality before the law. In this case, privileges of political affiliation will be granted to Mr. Bakalov and the rights of servicemen under the Defence and Armed Forces Act will be restricted. I will not talk about the expertise of Mr. Bakalov, before me Mr. Naydenov was very well spoken by the former military minister. Finally, let me say the following: Lord Bakalov is currently cooking, this is no secret among the employees of the Service. Even officers of the Military Information Service, appointed in the service months before 10 November 1989, were warned that they would be fired because they are cops and are from State Security. I mean, she mentioned a name. This is about the former military attaché in Croatia, Colonel Barbov. He will also be fired because he was appointed six or seven months before 10 November 1989 and the blue anti-communist, reformer Yordan Bakalov will put under the knife, under the guillotine all cops one day, one week, one month appointed before 10 November 1989. Again, Dear Mr. Bakalov, art. 32, para. 4 You will not be allowed to do all of this in a moment. It is, of course, not about the dismissals you will make, as reformers are known that whatever they say, when it comes to lustrations and logging, they will do it. Of course, this will be at the expense of national security, for which you will pay and one day you will answer. Mr. Bakalov, you will not be able to apply this threat of yours to pass on the names of foreign military collaborators in the Middle East and in the Balkans, as art. 32, para. 4 It prohibits you and will soon ban you from doing so, thanks to the vote of your MPs from the Patriarchal Block, and from the Party GERB. This is what the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria will be for the head of a specialized service, a person who has nothing to do with this matter and is purely political appointment, I stress this, of the Reformation bloc and not GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u144	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. To speak, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u145	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, before I make my speech, I would nevertheless like to remind you of the provision of our Rules, which requires the declaration of conflict of interest. However, people with an established belonging to the "State Security" or those for whom no belonging has been established, given that they are hidden in the archive in question, located in the Office of Military Information, to state it from this tribune to make it clear whether there is any personal motive in their speech. Of course, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As for the particular bill, I'm trying to understand the motives of the importers. He really corresponds to what they have recorded in the law adopted at first reading on the State Intelligence Agency. Obviously, there is also a balance between military and civilian intelligence, which colleagues from GERB did not agree to be united under a common hat within the National Intelligence Agency, as we had suggested. In this Bill there are other things that disturb me, and I am obliged to say them, because indeed if we do not seek a way to remove them between first and second readings, I personally will not be able to support the bill at first and second reading. I think other colleagues from the Reformation bloc will also not support it. One of the things that very much disturbs me is the article in question. 29 in the Bill which introduces, at least quite controversial from a legal point of view, a provision stating in the right text that this bill will not be made available to the so-called "Commission of Records" the archive in question of the Bulgarian People's Army, which includes documents and materials from 9 September 1944 to 16 July 1991. This provision clearly conflicts with the so-called Law on Files and in fact directly contradicts it. From the Reformation Block, we will strongly insist that this thing be dropped between the two readings because, apart from being a sign of a very bad legal technique, there is a direct conflict between two laws in force, and there may be other motives. The fact that it also gives other reasons is evident from the fact that no time limit has been set and in no way is clearly defined which materials will not be provided to the Commission as required by the Records Act. In other words, by creating the ambiguity of whether within the archive of the Bulgarian People's Army of Communist Times and the current archive of the Service of Military Information, the current intelligence that has nothing to do with it, I hope, with that intelligence, there is no distinction. It is quite possible that the two things could be mixed and under the pretext of protecting Military Intelligence from actually hiding agents with empathy to the State Security. That's one of the main things we're going to insist on. Many untrue things have been said earlier by this tribune in relation to the Commission on Files and with regard to the law in force, the so-called House for Files. Colleagues, keep in mind, as the President of the Commission himself has heard us say a long time ago that, in fact, this entire archive of "Military information" is already located in this Commission. How it got there, I let it explain the previous leadership of the Service. As we've learned from the microfilm media, he's long been sent there maybe wrong, I don't know what to call it. Despite the assurances that it is being kept very strictly and carefully at the moment, it is actually already in this Commission. If the Commission in question were ill-intentioned or intended to abuse, I note, by law, it could have done so a long time ago. I am saying this in order to reassure you, and I see no reason to worry about the Commission's activities and the way it will proceed with all the materials that have been provided to it. I am convinced that they will comply with the law, a law which, in fact, seven or eight years in this part has not been respected. This archive of the Bulgarian People's Army from the Communist State continues not to be transmitted to the Commission. What I'm graduating with and reminding you has been interpreted as a coup d'état. 32 of the so-called...................................... is..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is what a modern European service must do when such a danger is present, motivated to take these actions, rather than to speak angro, and to really create suspicion that there are actually people with empathy to the State Security (State Security) in this archive, as well as not once or twice in the media, there have been statements, including by representatives of the Commission on Files. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u146	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? The way you're holding Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u147	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm taking this opportunity to take into account a procedure for how to conduct it. I'm addressing you, Madam President. You have to keep an eye on and keep order in this room. When a speaker from the parliamentary tribune does not speak essentially on the bill, there should also be a penalty on your part. Before me, the speaker allowed himself to instill, to Sugest through the beginning of his speech regarding a conflict of interest towards fellow Members, which you have not sanctioned, and we are all aware of our obligations under the Law on Conflict of Interest. Second, the same speaker... I understand that for the Parliamentary Group of the Reform bloc is an extremely important issue for the Commission on Files and for the files of the Office, but I do not see in what context the draft in question and the so widely debated differences between the different parliamentary groups was this? You have also not taken any attitude that makes you empathetic in violation of the Rules of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u148	This is your understanding of the Rules, Mr. Iankov. Mine is very different from yours. Are there any other MPs who would like to speak? Mr. Merdjanov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u149	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As we have already stated several times, we will support the draft Military Intelligence Act. Compared to the other draft laws on changes in the sector, Security and its content, both as philosophy and as legislative texts, is sufficiently undeniable and clear. In this case, it can be defined as a good idea, embodied in the Bill, to regulate and arrange the overall and not only the activity and status of a specific security service, which is undoubtedly a military information service, but to frame in general the structure and activities of military intelligence at its three levels of strategic, operational and tactical. However, during the review of the Bill before its final adoption, we will make efforts to improve and improve individual provisions thereof, such as more clarity in the mechanism of interaction between different structures in the military intelligence system. We are also firmly defending our position, stated in previous discussions of such a bill in the Forty-first National Assembly against the unification of civilian and military intelligence and the creation of an intelligence service in this way. The arguments in this direction cannot be exhausted only by the fact that it will destroy a tradition that existed a century ago. The independence of this service is mostly determined by the specific nature of the information, as well as by the needs for which it is acquired and analysed in the interest of the defence of the country. In this regard, the risks we face due to armed conflicts close to us should not be underestimated. It is strange that it was one of the most fierce supporters of the merger of military and civilian intelligence that Mr. Yordan Bakalov was appointed head of the service. Quite fresh are Mr. Bakalov's statements from the then Blue Coalition, a prime example of today's reformers, who passionately explained that Bulgaria cannot afford two scouts and that it is the military that needs to be closed down. Turns out the politician who wanted to shut down a service as inefficient is the best fit to head it. And where did the government's professional attitude to the services go? That is why we insisted that representatives of the government be present at the outset. Rumyana Bachvarova headed the Ministry of Interior. It is a political appointment for which GERB is responsible. However, military information service is not an office. There the political leadership is carried out by the Minister of Defence and the chief is a professional leader. It was necessary to find a figure professionally related to military intelligence, not a politician who was speaking on the subject only enough to say that the service should be closed, but the files containing data of foreign employees are declassified. Obviously, this fully motivates the Reformation bloc's activities on national security issues. Moreover, Mr. Yordan Bakalov's biography does not comply with the requirements for the position provided for in your proposed Law. What does that mean? You propose a Law that you yourself do not comply with, make a decision in the week before we review the Bill, expect us to adopt a Law first, and then agree that it is not good and change it at your discretion?! This is humiliating. Parliament is not a rubber seal for the will of the executive and if the majority accepts this servitude, then we, the opposition, of course, will not agree. We will clearly oppose changes between the first and second readings to adapt the Law for a person. And here the question is not personal, but principled, because with the best law we cannot restore people's trust in statehood if there are specific names behind the texts that they are. By acting on the premature appointment of the Minister of Defence, he humiliated parliament, humiliated the ruling majority and ultimately corrupted Mr. Bakalov's candidacy. Too bad, because in this way we could reach a maximum level of agreement. It is a pity because Mr. Bakalov was respected by us parliamentarians, albeit with different political views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u150	- What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Mihov from the Patriotic Front, after him Mr. Ermenkov, after him we will give to Mr. Martin Dimitrov and then to Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We of the Patriotic Front will support this bill and appreciate positively the main points in it. However, we reserve the right to discuss and make amendments to two fundamental points that affect the Law. The first is on the issue of the relationship between the Chief of Military Information and the Chief of Defence, as we believe that the nature of military intelligence, which must primarily serve with information the operational and strategic management of the armed forces, must be linked to a narrow subordination, a close link between the Chief of Defence, the highest military in the hierarchy, and the Chief of Military Information. This experience and this relationship are not a novelty in the organization of these relations. From the beginning of Military Intelligence it was developed under the direct command of the highest military within the army headquarters and later in direct submission to the Chief of Staff. The second issue that we will also put is the already mentioned issue of the legislative requirements on let us call it the qualification of the service responsible. Our opinion is that the ten-year period for exercise or for empathy, in particular, with the services, is insufficient, that it is necessary to set serious requirements here, both for the professional qualification, training and growth of the one to whom such an important and specific intelligence unit will be entrusted. That is why we are putting to the debate the requirement not only of qualification and preparation, but also of his professional hierarchy to be a military scout, as the career says. We approach this debate not on the basis of the person now exercising this position, not on the basis of any personal or political bias, but solely on the basis of the awareness that this institution is one of the main elements for guaranteeing national security and depending on its governance, its activities, the lives of Bulgarian soldiers and servicemen are directly dependent both in Bulgaria in peace time and in carrying out military missions abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u152	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. On the left, did you figure out who's gonna talk first? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u153	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Directors of services who are present in this Chamber! In the spirit of the negotiators and I will point out that in general the bill is good and necessary, relatively well structured, giving a clear idea of the objectives and tasks of the intelligence of the armed forces, as it correctly defines the relations of the relevant services, NATO and the European Union with what is proposed in our Bill. It is important to announce that the service does not receive internal and political tasks and does not collect such information. In addition, we have several notes that need to be made regarding what is written in art. 27, p. 1 "In relation to the Military Information Service, where it is written that it collects information of a military nature, military policy, military economic, military technical and military science. This also raises the relevant question: does this mean that the Military Information Service acquires one and works on the same tasks that are covered by civilian intelligence and not only on military tasks? The question is: why is this overlap necessary? Does it mean that the Military Information Service exchange data with partners not only of a military nature but information of a political and economic nature? In the very name of the service, it is also defined as its character and information it collects, namely military. The Military Information Service is a secondary authorising officer from the Ministry of Defence and should therefore work on the tasks of the Ministry of Defence and its specific priorities and not on the entire spectrum of national security tasks, and we believe that the State Intelligence Agency has been established for this purpose. We also have several comments on the Agency's management, which is intended to be appointed. Our concern is that the recording of the welded situation in the Transitional and Final Provisions is an attempt to avoid the previously recorded requirements for experience, internship and competences in the Law. Maybe this thing will happen between first and second readings and be refined by you. It is also a question mark for the continuing tradition that the director of military intelligence should also be a civilian, except for military. Here we should note that the vertical beneath it and above it are mostly military personnel, which is a serious issue of reasoning. Just for the record, we have a paradox, for example, in intelligence we have an appointed general, and at the Military Information Service we have a civilian assigned. All of our concerns here in my speech will be highlighted in proposals between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u154	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. To speak, Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! BSP and DPS said they would support this bill. If the Bill explicitly didn't say that military intelligence files wouldn't be handed over to the Bureau of Records, I ask myself the following question: Would BSP and DPS support? The answer is clear: there wasn't! And if the price of their support, excuse me, fellow Members, is that these files are not to be disclosed, the truth not to come out, it is a high price that GERB, the Reformation Block and the Patriotic Front should not be paid. If this is the price of BSP and DPS support, this price should not be paid. I have a specific question, colleagues. We will make changes between first and second readings to say that these files must go where they belong in the Committee on Files. We know how BSP and DPS will vote on this topic. They will vote against it, as they have always voted against it and what position they have always had.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u156	Mr. Dimitrov, we're at the first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u157	At first reading, ma'am, this is a text that is offered and directly contradicts another law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u158	You will have time between the first and second votes to make your proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u159	It is directly contrary to another law, so don't tell me, Madam President, that this is not a statement on the substance, please very much. A text is proposed that directly contradicts another law at the moment. Dear colleagues from GERB, the Patriotic Front and the Reformation bloc to you have a great public expectation. If we are a democratic majority, we must disclose these files to the end. The public is so eager for BSP and DPS there is no such expectation. And if we are willing to pay such a huge political price just to get their support, it is unacceptable. I'm sorry Mr. Tsvetanov isn't here. I address it personally, as well as the last person from the parliamentary group of GERB. We together have to open this ulcer to the fullest. [[Laughter in BSP LB]] The security files must be transmitted where they belong in the Committee on Files. There's no one to do that if we don't make those decisions. [[Private applause from RB.]] We'll have the constant sabotage of BSP and DPS, that's clear. It's always been like this. That's why public expectation is for us. Let us be at the height of this expectation and do the work to the end, as we promised Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u160	The line, Mr. Merdjanov. I expect a request to extend your time, you have 30 seconds, so make the request.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u161	Please extend the parliamentary group's time, Madam President. Thank you. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I'm tempted to offer you an idea. It is good for the Reformation bloc to submit a Bill on the closure of all special services, including the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence and the only body to care for national security, to be the Commission for the Disclosure of Files. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u162	Second line? A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u163	Dear colleagues! You heard, there's two of these. One thesis is that the archives of the communist services should not be revealed that is the thesis of BSP and DPS, their thesis has always been clear. [[Noise and lines on the left.]] Now comes the thesis and the position of GERB, the Reformation Block and the Patriotic Front. Their thesis is clear, they don't need to say it, we know it. They don't have to tell us again. The question is: will we agree with their thesis or would we want the truth about the communist regime to become clear, see if there are deep hidden people, including those involved in modern politics, to be buried there. Turns out that's where the dog was buried. So public expectation, again I say, is to GERB, reformers and patriots. We must show that we are different, that we are Democrats and to open the files of the communist regime to the full. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u164	To speak, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u165	Honourable President, honourable Members, honourable Heads of Service! First of all, I would like to explain that I am not only taking the floor as a MP, but also as a Lieutenant Colonel from the Reserve who served in the lines of the Intelligence Department for the uneducated General Staff and not in the RUMNO, which has never been. That is, the Intelligence Department of the General Staff, part of the Armed Forces of Bulgaria, and not part of the political upgrade, which would be if it were with the Ministry of People's Defence. And among other things, RUMNO has never been as such. Colleagues, ignorance is clearly contagious, and it's so contagious that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u166	To the Law, Mr. Ermenkov! We'll talk about ignorance another time. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u167	I'm sorry, but how can I speak in any other way when there are people here who delude themselves with regard to a service they suspect in I don't know what kind of actions they never existed. The only explanation for these suspicions is that the less you know, the more you suspect. That's, unfortunately, the stuff. But it wouldn't be the first time for the Reformers. That's clear. We've already heard that before, and now we're hearing it one more time. In fact, I would like to address a single issue, only that I was provoked here with these highly competent speeches on topics that we do not understand. My speech is about the idea of a director of the Office being able to be appointed and a civilian, notice, with unclear status. Because according to the Law we are discussing at the moment, he must have 10 years of professional experience, if he is a civilian, in the structures of the National Security Protection System. And according to the Law, which we voted here first, they are: the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Chief of Defense and so on. And I ask: does this mean that a Master of Finance, who worked somewhere for 10 years at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and under this Law, can become Director of the Office of Information? You understand that we are talking about absurdity, we are talking about something that I am just surprised at my colleagues from GERB that they have failed the reformers. I know who suggested it, but why are you letting them down? Because these reformers didn't ask themselves how a civilian who doesn't know the difference between a tank and a self-propelled gasp wouldn't want to talk about more complicated jobs, run military intelligence? A man who must first report to the commander-in-chief in the event of a war or a military setting for the position of the forces, the design of the opposing operation, the knowledge of a map, the ability to divide where ours are, where are ours, so to say it more simply, for those civilians who want to become chiefs of this Service, how can this work be done when it is a job for a man who has completed not only a military academy? One military academy isn't enough for that! And I ask: how will this civilian go to a meeting with his suit and tie with his colleagues from Brussels, where everyone will be with general lamps? What are we talking about?! Therefore, I have to tell you that I will personally make a proposal between first and second readings, the Director of the Office of Information, to be able only to be a military with a higher military rank.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u168	General.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u169	And his replacements will also be senior or senior military, according to how things work. Otherwise, colleagues, we will get to the point that the sole purpose of this civilian being the head of this Service is to give the files where someone believes they should be given. And this has nothing to do with intelligence or national security or any care about how or how our country should survive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u170	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Atanasov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not support this bill in principle, I have expressed them in the debate on the previous bills. Since this is where the debate on personnel policy is heated in these offices, I would like to say two circumstances that I think are important. They show this excitement on the left. According to a treaty between the People's Republic of Bulgaria and the Soviet Union since 1971, all newly appointed employees in the Bulgarian intelligence services were then required to undergo a one-year preparatory course at the Soviet Union services. That's why you want these circles to always be the chiefs of these services. The other important circumstance in this regard. In the instruction of the Politburo for the work of the intelligence services in the NRB, it is written for officers in the intelligence of the People's Republic of Bulgaria to be appointed sons and daughters of the Bulgarian people, irrevocably faithful to the Bulgarian Communist Party and to the friendship with the Soviet Union. So much for the camera questions. I would like to mention several texts that are important in the proposed Law. First of all, I would like to say that, from a legal and technical point of view, the bill is written very well. It's clearly written with the help of the service people, which is why there are many interesting ruses. In accordance with Article 5 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the Annex to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 shall be replaced by the text set out in the Annex to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 February 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the list of approved active substances referred to in Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the list of approved active substances referred to in Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the list of approved active substances referred to in Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the list of approved active substances referred to in Article 4 (1) of Not just for defense! Article 11: "Military intelligence cannot be entrusted with tasks of an internal political nature'. Very right! It does not collect, process, analyse or store information of an internal political nature. This means that he can do this work with regard to information of a foreign policy nature, which is not related to the country's defence. Here's your duplication. In relation to the archive, art. 29: The Office shall establish and maintain its own archive and a special file for the storage of documents, information and data for foreign nationals. The materials under para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is for foreign citizens, I understand. However, in art. 32, para. 4 shall be indicated as follows: "No information shall be provided on the sources, methods, means and means of obtaining intelligence and data on the staff of the service...'. That's right. From now on:................................ and for those who cooperate with her............... and notice......................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u172	That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u173	Here is the catch with which you want to conceal the information that is stored in the untranslated cases of the Office of Military Information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u174	We don't write it, you write it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u175	No, no! I point out the catch in this Bill and between first and second readings the relevant proposals must be made so as not to allow any contradiction between two acts of the same rank, namely the Military Intelligence Act and the Records Act. Another very interesting text. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59 says: "The Office of Military Information " may have officials in central administration structures and departments with which it interacts. Ladies and gentlemen, isn't this Office going to scout and work abroad? Why should it have its representatives in institutions of the Bulgarian state on Bulgarian territory? And so on and so forth?! So there are texts that are very cleverly pushed, by the way, in order to, first of all, for the last time make an attempt not to surrender that 35,000. archive units that are kept in Military Intelligence. I know what the main reason is. It's not about how some hidden military intelligence collaborators could have jumped out of there over the years. The main reason, ladies and gentlemen, is that these documents contain information about joint operations of Bulgarian military intelligence from before 1989 with their then partners from the Soviet Union. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u176	Any lines to Mr. Atanasov's statement? I won't. No further statements have been made. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u177	We still have a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u178	You want a statement within this minute and a half? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u179	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The submitted Bill is a complementary version of the Military Intelligence Act, which was submitted by the Council of Ministers in 2012. It lists the powers and responsibilities of the authorities for its management. But something that is missing here, and it should be stressed, is that this bill regulates the overall process of intelligence activities. In this sense, the focus of the debate only on the activities of the Military Information Service, which carries out the intelligence at strategic level, but is part of the three levels of military intelligence, strategic, operational and tactical, shows ignorance of the process or pursuit of other objectives. In this context, I am in a hurry to say that I did not support the idea of merging civilian and military intelligence services into one, with a fundamental argument that it is insane to leave the Armed Forces without strategic information. I was genuinely amazed when the minister of war spoke in his interview two months ago in support of such an act with the only argument that it was proposed by the Reformation bloc and for this reason he had to support it. Colleagues, although many things have been said on the subject, I would like to leave here to say about an essential weakness in the Bill, which is otherwise generally good, namely the management of the service. It is indicated that the management of the service is carried out by a director who is appointed for a period of 5 years and can be... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u180	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Your group's time is up. This thesis was deeply and thoroughly commented by the representatives of your parliamentary group. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I invite the MPs to take their seats. There's a vote coming up. I put to the first vote the Military Intelligence Bill with importer Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. Vote 119 MPs: 110 against 4, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Thank you. Moving on to point four: FIRST VOICE OF LAWPROECT FOR NATIONAL FOOD SERVICES. Importers are Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. Following the report of the leading Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. He'll introduce him to us, Mr. Petrov. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u181	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, dear guests! I'll read you this: ♪ I can't believe to the Commission for the Control of Security Services, the Application and Use of Special Intelligence Means and Access to Data under the Law on Electronic Communications under the National Security Service Act, No 554-01-46, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. The Commission at its regular meeting held on 19 March 2015 examined the National Security Service Bill, No 554-01-46, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Mr. Atanas Samandov, Secretary for Defence and Security of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Petya Tyankova, Secretary for Legal Affairs. The National Security Service Bill proposes that the powers, principles and activities of the National Security Service, the status of its employees, interaction with other state bodies and organisations, accountability and control of the Office be regulated in full. On behalf of the importers, the National Security Service Bill was presented by Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov. He said that for 25 years the National Security Service carried out its activities only on the basis of regulations and the time has come for its activities to be regulated by a law detailing the powers of the NSO staff. It is also regulated the possibility to carry out the security of the overseas representations of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Bill sets out the conditions under which security and specialized transport may be provided to officials in the course of their duties in peace. Mr. Samandov, Mr. Antonov, Mr. Krastev, as well as the MPs: Mr. Atanas Merdjanov, Mr. Kostadinov, Mr. Atanasov, Mr. Valentin Nikolov, Mr. Andreev and Mr. Popov took part in the discussion on the Bill. Mr. Samandov, Secretary for Defence and Security of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, expressed his opinion that the need for such a law is necessary to regulate the powers and principles of the activities of the National Assembly and supports the NSO bill. Mr. Antonov, head of the National Security Service, pointed out that the NSO bill guarantees the rule of law, transparency and accountability in the activities of the NSO and fully supports the NSO bill. Mr. Krastev is an adviser to the political cabinet at the Council of Ministers, supported the draft Law on National Security as part of the activities related to national security. Mr. Merdjanov expressed his opinion that the need for such a law is necessary and in principle supports the NGO Bill, and between first and second reading of the Bill will submit proposals. Mr. Kostadinov pointed out that there is a need for the adoption of a Law on the National Security Service to sign the rules on the activities of the National Security Service and in principle supports the proposed Bill. Mr. Atanasov said he would not take part in the vote on the National Security Service Bill, as there should be a change of status quo and the proposed Bill does not guarantee that. Mr. Nikolov fully supported the proposed Bill, pointing out that a Law on NGO is needed. In the course of the overall discussion on the National Security Service Bill, the MPs expressed their support for the proposed NGO Bill. After the discussion, the Commission voted with 10 votes for the National Security Service, 0 votes against the Council and 3 votes abstentioned and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the National Security Service Act, No 554-01-46, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. President of the Commission "Dimitar Lazarov. "
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u182	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Internal Security and Public Order Committee? General Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u183	This Regulation on the National Security Service Bill, No 554-01-46, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. At a regular meeting held on 25 March 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the National Security Service Bill, No 554-01-46, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. Following the debates, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11 votes in favour, 0 votes in favour and 3 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft National Security Service Act, No 554-01-46, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u184	Thank you, General Atanasov. And the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs "Mr. Danail Kirilov, to read the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u185	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the National Security Service Bill, No 554-01-46, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs At its meeting held on 25 March 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the quoted bill. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Petya Tyankova, Secretary of Defense and Security of the Republic of Bulgaria, Secretary of Legal Affairs; by the Council of Ministers, Lieutenant General Anyu Angelov and Mr. Georgi Krastev, Advisors in the Political Office; by the State Agency of National Security and Mrs. Nedyalko Nedyalkov, Vice-President, and Mrs. Tanya Karakash, Director of the Legal Service; by the National Security Service General Angel Antonov, Chief, and Mrs. Petar Vladimirov, Senior Expert. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, who pointed out that it governs fully the powers, principles, activities and status of the National Security Service as a military government service. The draft detailed regulation regulates the appointment and release directly from the President of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Head of the National Security Service, as well as the status of officers and sergeants. The types of security activities, security sites, including the security of the overseas offices of the Republic of Bulgaria, officials with the right to security and the conditions for that are arranged. The powers of officers and sergeants, the use of weapons under the conditions of need, employment and service shall be reviewed. Ms. Petya Tyankova, Mr. Georgi Krastev, MPs Dimitar Delchev, Dimitar Lazarov, Yavor Haytov took part in the discussion. In the course of the discussion Ms. Petya Tyankova said she supports the submitted National Security Service Bill. Express the opinion that the Republic of Bulgaria is the rule of law and the lack of primary regulations governing the functions, structure and powers of the National Security Service impose the adoption of this law. Mr. Georgi Krastev pointed out that there was a wide range of expertise involved in the draft work in 2012 and there were several public discussions and the bill reflects these expert opinions and discussions. National Representative Dimitar Delchev expressed support for the bill, paying attention to the need to discuss the powers of the National Security Service to check objects without asking permission from a judge. National Representative Dimitar Lazarov said that the National Security Service Draft Law was adopted at first reading in the 41st National Assembly, taking into account the opinions and opinions of the experts and experts of the relevant departments, the comments and positions of working groups, round tables and NGOs. National Representative Yavor Haytov expressed his support for the National Security Service Bill. After the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the National Security Service, No 554-01-46, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 11 March 2015....................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u186	Thank you, Lord Kirilov. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Tsvetanov, you are welcome for the reasons for the draft National Security Service Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u187	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have all witnessed the debates and discussions we are having on today's plenary day on the subject of security services. Of course, the National Security Service Bill is the last one to be tabled as the so-called and commonly accepted package on the security services laws. The National Security Service is now aware that there is no relevant law. The consultations held in April 2012 with the President came to a political consensus that the National Security Service should remain with the President and be able to be equally distant as functions and specifics and equally distant from all other institutions as legislative and executive powers. Of course, we witnessed a slightly more political debate in the previous bill, which was linked to Military Intelligence. I want this subject to be categorically dismissed as a political discussion, because I do not think that when we talk about security services, we should go into details of political attacks. Of course, the National Security Service has its place, and we should always come from the fact that our country will be presiding over the European Council 2018, and this should also strengthen our country's responsibility to be able to actually guarantee the security of all these exported councils that will be held in the country. The bill regulates the powers, principles and activities of the National Security Service, the status of its employees, interaction with other state bodies and organizations, accountability and control of the service. The draft law envisages maintaining the military status of employees as a basis for this is the special nature of the activities related to the performance of the public service. The President of the Republic shall carry out the general management of the NSO by appointing and dismissing the Chief and in agreement with the Council of Ministers, appointing and dismissing the deputy of the Head, establishing the structure and numerical composition and honoring the officers with senior officer titles. Officials entitled to security, as well as the types of security provided on and outside the territory of the country, as well as in peaceful and military times, are listed. The security guards shall not refuse security and shall comply with the safety instructions given by the National Security Service. The order for the assessment of the threat of persons and objects is set, respectively, to increase the security measures. The possibility of guarding the overseas offices of the Republic of Bulgaria is regulated and the list is set by the Council of Ministers. It is explicitly stated that the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service do not have police powers. In the event of a detention, it is envisaged to be transmitted immediately to the police authorities and a report shall be drawn up for the case and a medical examination shall be carried out on the person. The use of weapons is permissible only under the conditions of absolute necessity and the results of the relevant texts are used in the legal theory and practice achieved in the work of the Ministry of Interior Act. It is certain that the National Security Service has employees whose status is determined by the Law of the National Security Office, civil servants under the Law of the Civil Service and persons working in the employment relationship. The financial and other funds to implement the Law will be provided by the budget of the National Security Service and by the budgets of the other state bodies entrusted with responsibilities. The proposed bill concerns activities of exceptional national competence and does not concern European Union law. Its adoption is in line with the practice of the Member States and the Union as a whole to clearly regulate the activities and competences of state authorities in the field of national security. Of course, there were serious debates on the Bill when it was discussed in the Committees of the Forty-third Parliament, but I would like to explicitly stress that the submitted bills that we were looking at today were bills that were submitted to the Forty-first National Assembly, which passed at first reading, went to public discussions. Of course, what has been taken into account by all fellow MPs from the other parliamentary groups, who took part today in the debates, said and reported that all recommendations and proposals that have been made between the first and second reading of the bills in the Forty-first National Assembly have actually been taken into account. Before the early termination of the mandate of the Forty-first National Assembly, you know that these bills failed to be adopted at second reading. However, today, when we talk about these bills, I would like to reiterate that absolutely all the discussions and legislative initiatives taken by all governments, both by the executive authority and by the legislative authority, have been taken into account. For colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria, I would like to emphasise that in 2008, Prime Minister Sergey Stanishev started a debate and had passed a coordination between the relevant departments of the National Security Service Bill, which once again supports the thesis that there should be continuity in policies. Whenever we are discussing draft laws related to the topic of Security, we must have analysed and summarized fully this legal matter, which has been discussed and discussed by both the non-governmental sector and the relevant institutions. I hope that we will receive support at first reading and colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria, with the legislation submitted and discussed at the time in the Council of Ministers, and between the first and second votes the relevant proposals for changes that could optimize the legislation that we are proposing today for adoption at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u188	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u189	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chief of the National Security Service! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support proposals by Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs Bill with the clear awareness that it appears to be some finished product of many years of ongoing discussion. I hope that Mr. Tsvetanov will not accept it as a personal attack on him.. In practice, this is not his Bill, but was submitted by him and the other fellow importers. This bill represents the materialized efforts of many MPs over a very long period. As are the other bills that we have voted on since the beginning of today's sitting, and what is currently under consideration is not perfect. By the way, it is not perfect any of the bills voted in this National Assembly anything quite natural and normal. However, it is commendable that at last, after 25 years, the activities of such an important service in the state as the National Security Service will receive legal regulation of its activities. 26 years after 1989, it is not normal, it is not appropriate to regulate the activities of such an important public service. Of course, there is much to be desired by the quality of the Bill. Most likely, between the first and second votes, there will be proposals made - we of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will also do ours. My appeal is, although the last of today's billings, to try to avoid attempts at political banter amongst ourselves. It is commendable that the Bill is considered in a package, along with the others who have already been voted at first reading. I wish today to give a sign to the Bulgarian society that when it comes to debates on the various aspects of national security, the Bulgarian Parliament is at the height that the public expects of us......... that we do not allow ourselves to party to the discussion, the debate; that on these bills we are looking for the broadest possible national agreement, because national security is neither left nor right. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will try today to contribute, and I think this will happen quite successfully in seeking consensus. Ending with a request for proposals between the first and second votes, I call on all the MPs at the end of the debate, we are all tired, to refrain from attempts at populist speeches, to party the debate. I call on you to support the proposed bill. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u190	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. First line? I won't. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u191	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! In front of me is the National Security Service Act, but to the left of me is the newly adopted.... for the National Intelligence Service. Two passages, both laws, as if they were written under indigo. I will now read you the first passage you have already voted on and you have not paid attention to what I have read to you. Article 63, para. 2 of the Intelligence Act states that the aids that Bulgaria's scouts will use abroad and in Bulgaria are: handcuffs I have just read you the adopted National Intelligence Service Act, which requires our intelligence officers on Bulgarian terrains and abroad to behave like police officers and gendarmers. Now see what the National Security Act says, which you will accept without debate, as you accept everything you are offered and voted on without reading at all! I'm sure you haven't read that! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u192	Mr. Enchev, please get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u193	I'm reading al. Three! The aids are: ropes... Please listen carefully! [[Laughter at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u194	Please...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u195	The aids are: ropes; handcuffs; electric shocks and other batons; gadgets; smokes; chemical substances approved by the Minister of Health; how nice; blank cartridges, rubber or plastic nozzles or shock bullets; vehicle braking devices; space opening device, notice; light and sound impact device; and most importantly, armored machines! You'll be voting on that in a minute. Now I ask: are we currently voting on the National Security Service Act or voting on the Law on the new Bulgarian Gendarmerie and Police?! These are brutal aids, honourable Members, and if you accept this to be used by the National Security Service, you create a second gendarmerie directly subordinate to the Head of State, whoever he is! Another disgusting thing about al. 7: The use of physical strength and these techniques that I have listed against you against minors and pregnant women is prohibited! Look, treating children and pregnant women as potential targets and recording in the Law is outrageous! It's Nazism!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u196	Please, no definitions!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u197	Whoever votes this member puts a great sin on his soul, as he will give rights to the National Security Service, turning them not into security guards... worthy officers of the Bulgarian Army, but into the Praetorian Guard! Once again, if you'd like to hear it. I read you two texts from the National Intelligence Service Act and from the National Security Service Act... [[Lowered noise and lines from the right block.]] Please, if you would intervene at least you are not from the GERB party, to listen to this person who speaks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u198	You still have a minute and a half. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I beg you for silence in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u199	You may not love me, but you must love the Rules of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u200	No dialogue, please. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u201	You enter into an imprecise dialogue with the speaker and violate the Staff Regulations, not I...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u202	Please, I'll take your word for it. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u203	Yes, it's time to take away their... Hey, I read to you a while ago, honourable Members, two texts showing the new repressive machine in Bulgaria are being replaced by Bulgarian scouts in Bulgaria and abroad, on Bulgarian territory and on foreign soil to wear handcuffs, bullets, sound devices, which is a complete absurd! Of course, this is a mistake and must be dropped by the National Intelligence Service Act. And there are rights to the National Security Service turning it, as I told you, into a Praetorian Guard, into Nazism! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u204	First line? I won't. Procedure in the manner of conduct...... please, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u205	Dear Mr. President, I would like to say that you are the President because the Rules of the National Assembly are imperative when someone is leading the meeting. Do not allow any MP, whether independent, to act as a mentor from this tribune, to shake and give discipline to the left and to the right, to read texts of literate fellow MPs in order to have some position expressed even though it is false! You shouldn't allow this mentoring tone to this MP! I believe this is not the first time this has happened in this National Assembly. This man must once... [[Noise and lines.]] I know that many fake drugs are sold in Bulgaria, but that's it! I'm so surprised! [[Laughter and applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. I accept your remark. Thank you. I give the floor to Mr. Merdjanov. [[Noise and lines.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for a little more patience in this House!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is what happens when several important bills are fought in a limited time. The draft Law on the National Security Service has one goal to legitimize the state in which the Office has been functioning since 1991. This is not reform and I am interested in how the reformers are almost absent from this House. It's cementing the status quo! This is not a law to protect the public interest that meets public expectations. It's a law written by the NSA for the NSA. I stress not from the current one, but from the previous Chairman of the National Assembly Mr. Tsvetanov. I should be more aware of whether at the time of Stanishev's Prime Ministership there was such a bill or rather in the past the National Assembly had another idea that the National Security Service should be narrowed down, shortened and transferred to the Ministry of Interior. In the motives too scarce, one sentence explains why the military status of the employees is maintained: due to the particular nature of the activities related to the performance of the public service. There is no order in them, however, for what needs to be strengthened the current situation. It is clear that the preservation of the militaryized character of the service is intended to justify the obedience of the Supreme Commander, but what is the special feature of the activities of the National Security Service? Is she more special than the intelligence service we've been devoining? Is it more special than the Ministry of Interior, whose employees also carry out security activities? There is no logical explanation for the reluctance to reform NTAC. At least the authors would have bothered to compare the military ranks they envisioned for the National Security Service with those of the other servicemen. The military titles, which the Bill envisages, are different from those under the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. According to art. 58 of the Bill is a junior lieutenant of the junior officers, but one is missing among the junior officers' ranks under art. 138 of the Defense and Armed Forces Act. There is also a gap in the sergeant's ranks: under the Defence and Armed Forces Act, for example, the Chief Petty Officer is a member of the Navy. As long as the military status of NTAC employees is proposed, what requires the embezzlement of titles in differences from those under the Military Law? Is this nonsense, or is it once again privileged one service at the expense of another? Another contradiction in this connection is that the position of the law is the NGO to take care of the security of its designated persons, the so-called personal guards. Other types of security of sites, of events and specialized transport art. 15 are subject to this objective to ensure the safety of the person concerned. The security sites shall be the place of employment and residence of the guarded person. The security of events in the case of its participation in them, and the specialized transport aims again the safe transportation of the persons designated by the Law by art. Art. 16 to art. 19. In the case of secure objects, however, the Law allows for an exception to this principle. In accordance with art. 25, para. 2 the security shall also be subject to sites provided to the NSA for the performance of the functions specified in this Law or where this is entrusted under another law or act of the Council of Ministers. What does it turn out to be? The National Security Service is a specialized, militaryized state service to the President. 5. The persons who guard are only those designated by the Law, but the security of objects can be assigned to it by the government. Stupidity or a loophole through which the government benefits from the services of the National Security Service, is that it? Regarding the circle of the protected persons and the types of security provided to them, everyone, I hope, is aware of how sensitive this issue is to public opinion. How many irritations do sometimes unduly cause large motorcades? Security persons shall be designated in art. 20 and the next of the Bill. However, careful reading of the texts also reveals the lack of clear criteria on the basis of which these persons are designated, as well as the type of their security. What was the argument, for example, that the Attorney General was placed on the same level as the Vice President, as protected persons? Visible from the norm of art. 21, para. 2 Both are provided with security of residence and work, as well as personal security and specialized transport in the country and abroad. In the same way, the alignment of the President of the Constitutional Court and the mayor of the capital is inexplicable. For example, they fall into the more ordinary category, like the presidents of the Supreme Courts. They are also intended to provide only specialized transport as a kind of security. It is time to state clearly that the NGO serves as a security guard to protect the lives and health of endangered persons because of its functions, not for decorations, prestige or symbol of social status. The main activity of the NSA is the security service. Yes, the subject matter, the subject of this activity, is more specific because it is a matter of protecting the persons holding the senior state positions, but this does not change the nature of the activity and the status of the employees as guards. Doesn't it seem excessive to you that this activity carried out by the National Security Service is explicitly defined in the Law in art. 2, as an element of the national security protection activity aimed at ensuring the safety of the persons, objects, events as defined in this Law? Moreover, such an emphasis is missing in the other two, so-called "Development Act" (the one for the State Intelligence Agency) and for Military Intelligence. Is the National Security Service more valuable than national security intelligence? If we compare their budgets, it would appear so, although I think there are too many arguments for the opposite. BSP left Bulgaria will refrain from supporting the National Security Service Act at first reading, as it does not meet any of the problems related to the functioning of this service. Our view is that the NSO has no place with the president, whose functions are not to be chief state security guard. The NSA must become a tight, elite structure that protects a highly endangered limited circle of individuals. Instead, you are proposing that we vote to continue as it has been so far. This is not reform, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u208	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. A line? I won't. Anybody else want to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u209	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is good to finally have a law governing the security work of high-ranking officials and government officials. It is good that this activity should be legislative, not apocryphal, as it has so far been arranged. We of the Reformation bloc would support such legislation if it were reasonable and if it changed the traditions of such security firmly enshrined in the late communist regime. On this particular bill, which we can safely call the Law on Governance, Safety and Security, we will vote on conscience. I call on all MPs to vote on their conscience, because in this case it is not the question of legitimising the security activity of the highest-ranking representatives of the government, but because a very important issue is being raised which concerns each of us as people in the highest authority of this government, such as former, future or at least with high hopes of ever being a higher-ranking person. This is the question: should Bulgaria retain a regime of privileges for the representatives of the state power, is it important that we ourselves are protected and served in a particular, special way, in a particular, special order and of a particular category of civil servants, and is it military, dedicated solely to this activity? Are our own security and our own privileges important to us, or is national security important to us, understood as maximum effort and maximum investment of public funds in the security of each individual of seven million Bulgarian citizens? Because today we must, in our own conscience, answer to our voters what we spend 40 million on. lv. People's steam per year. Do we spend it on the security and security of seven million Bulgarian citizens, who apparently give about six levs on average their own a year to the NSO, each one of them, or for several hundred privileged individuals who we didn't even know the names of, and we had to read the yellow press to know who the National Security Service is guarding and who they're not guarding? Whose national security is this? That is the question we are answering today. National security is a privilege of few, or is national security a concern for everyone's security? As small as the issue of this Law may seem, it is not small, because we legalize arbitrariness from late communism. What has not changed over 25 years and has been wrong every minute of these 25 years, as well as in the previous, instead of in some regulation, decree, decree, we are strengthening it by law of a democratic parliament. However, the fact that Parliament is democratic and is democratically elected does not make this Law democratic or reasonable. And please don't tell me that what I'm talking about right now is populism and that there are such services everywhere. This is not populism, it is a responsibility to the money of the Bulgarian citizens and taxpayers, because they are the main thing that we as parliament are sent to guard. The state budget, considered as the money that seven million Bulgarian citizens have given us to dispose of them, and we have no right to take 40 million of them and throw them for our own privileges in the wind. And don't say that there are such services all over the world, because there is no such service in any democratic state, precisely because MPs in democratic countries can't even think of approving a budget for such a service. A service that excludes seven million, without two hundred or three hundred, from citizens from the scope of its security activities, none. Of course, there are officers who protect prime ministers, presidents, kings and all other important people in every country. Of course, there are state services that deal with this type of security and units that care exclusively for it, but they are always part of the same services of the state that fight for the security of each individual citizen, and in the modern, quite troubled and troubled western world to which we belong, that means they are fighting against the terrorist threat. Because what, excuse me, are the threats to the President of the Republic, to the Prime Minister of the Republic, to the ministers, to the heads of the courts in Bulgaria, if not a threat of terrorism? Only threatened with terrorism are all Bulgarian citizens and all other persons within the territory of Bulgaria, and protection against terrorism is the same when it is for the Head of State and when it is for the most ordinary Bulgarian citizen or for the tourist at the airport in Burgas. That's what we need to understand. And when we spend ten times more money on guarding persons with privileges than on guarding all the other seven million Bulgarians, we are actually making a very bad investment in guarding our head of state, our prime minister, our ministers and the other randomly selected privileged persons to whom we hope to belong. Where money is spent to combat terrorism, there is a real threat. When we throw the forty million elsewhere, and for the threats of terrorism we give 4 million, we increase the chance, including the high-ranking representatives of the state power in Bulgaria, to become victims of terrorism, because this 40 million we save from the security of everyone, and we, supposedly high-ranking people, is perhaps time to humble ourselves and to think that we are nothing more than one of these all Bulgarians, whose security we give 4 million instead of 40 for the NSO. My call is that we do not support a law which, as a scope, as a separation between the security of the ordinary person and privileged people, as a military structure, other than that which combats the general threat of terrorism, is in fact characteristic of dark-headed regimes, as was the regime of Todor Zhivkov in Bulgaria, who has bequeathed to us Management, safety and security to rename it and leave it as it is at present. And maids, maids and other women with respected professions to be part of a national secret security service for high-ranking people, this thing was specific until a few years ago for Muammar Gaddafi's regime in Libya and since its end, I think there are no such things anywhere in the world. Perhaps what we need to do is reject this Bill at first reading. Let's adopt a Law on Counterterrorist, in a separate chapter from which we can guarantee much more than this Law guarantees our high-ranking representatives of state power, within the framework of a common strategy to combat terrorism, because, again, they are nothing different from any other Bulgarian citizen, and there is no way to be anything different, because if the terrorist act is successful, there comes that moment when we are all equal to the President, there are no MPs, there is no cleaning lady. So the protection of each one must be subject to common logic, common strategy, common rules and general funding. To conclude, my call is: vote really in conscience. Vote against your own privileges, vote for the security and rights of all Bulgarian citizens, including ours as Bulgarian citizens. Let's be a little more humble and a little more responsible for the foreign money we spend in these moments. Thank you. [[Applause from RB. Noise and lines by GERB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u210	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Chetin Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kanev, your call at the end "Let's be more humble," I think you should address it first to yourself. I would like to ask you, because your entire thesis was based on the claim that this is not a reform, that this is not a proposal for any new device of this service, but a legal attachment of the current status quo, that this was an inheritance from communism and so on. I would like to ask you, Mr. Kanev, did you agree this position with the former Prime Minister of the country in the period 1997 - 2001 Ivan Kostov? Or with the former President of the Republic of Bulgaria Petar Stoyanov, who managed together and separately the Republic of Bulgaria for four years? Both were used for four years with all the power and power of the state, including the services of the National Security Service. And during no time in the four-year untenable management of the ODS under the wise leadership of Ivan Kostov, no one raised even for a moment the question that their security was provided by a communist service, by a retrograde service, by a service of the remnant of the past, which should be reformed as soon as possible. Why didn't your party then, Mr. Kanev, who ruled and to whom you are now heir? If your position is that this is such a service, you should have done it when you had all the power for four years! You should have turned the NSA into what you're now pleading! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u212	Second line, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u213	Dear Mr. Kanev, I respect your political these, although we are in different political positions. I appreciate your consistency, only about two weeks ago you stated your strong disagreement with the National Security Service Bill. Today you declare and call on your fellow parties and supporters of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group to vote on conscience. It became clear that yesterday Mr. Yordan Bakalov was appointed Chief of Military Information. That seems kind of like a deal. What is your position on this? Do you really think this bill is a reform of the Office? These tosses to be attached here to some Terrorism Act and so on, is just a way out of the situation. I just want to refresh your memory and remind you that at the beginning of democracy, in 1990, the then Service was called not the National Security Service, but the National Office for the Protection of the President. And responsibility and maybe guilt have all the governments, all the presidents who in one way or another allowed this Service to become what it was until 1989.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u214	Third line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u215	I, for what Mr. Kazak asked, will extend the question: did you consult with Mrs. Kuneva and Mrs. Lukarski? And would they agree to get off their service cars? Thank you. [[Laughter in DPS and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u216	A hole, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u217	Mr. Ermenkov, service cars are another sick subject. Let's save it for another debate. There are company cars of NTAC and service cars with a driver without a gun. That's the only difference between the two species. [[Laughter]] A very separate topic is that the number of service cars in Bulgaria is about 123 times more than in the Kingdom of Sweden, with a slightly larger population than ours. It's a very separate question. And with regard to the sharpest criticism of our position expressed by Mr. Merdjanov and Mr. Kazak, that it is probably not consistent with the former Prime Minister, I know that you have no other argument against me and against my positions, except that I am the successor of a man whom you spit a lot over the years. It affected him with political popularity. I mean, you spit well. You'll have to spit against me, not yet against him to achieve the same effect. I haven't agreed with anyone. And I haven't agreed on the reason that Mr. Merdjanov very rightly pointed out in Bulgaria many people during many different governments before the changes and throughout the transition period have benefited from unacceptable privileges. The temptation to continue the privilege that someone else before you has used for themselves, whether it is a driver you do not need, a security guard you do not need, or a worse type of relationship with a hoop of companies that you obviously need, only that it is not needed by the state, but there is a security guard that all these things have happened in all the governments. And political humility is precisely to acknowledge the facts and to make such a policy as to cut off your own branch and not allow it. This is done by law. And by the way, it's called reform to accept such rules that you don't take advantage of the privileges they've benefited from before you. I'm in a hurry for this attack on this model of the National Security Service, long before I need this service, so as soon as I need it, it won't be like this, so I can use it. [[Radio and laughter in the hall.]] And with regard to the allusion with the former Prime Minister Ivan Kostov and the former Chairman of the SDS and DSB during different periods of his career, he does not use the services of the National Security Service. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]] I don't have anything to ask him about it. But the former Chairman of the DPS for vague reasons continues to use them, and I am interested if we accept this Law, will it continue?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u218	Mr. Iankov signed up for a speech. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u219	Madam President, honourable Members! The National Security Service Act is to be discussed at the moment of first reading. This Law regulates the scope and organisation of the work of the Office and the rights and obligations of workers. The debate should be much wider. For us is particularly important the public position during this discussion, what claims will be made to the proposed changes of society itself. And it must be the citizens who will be the public procurement for the proposed Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u220	Elections, elections are coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u221	Politicians must make a similar decision only after we are sure that there is a widely accepted opinion on this issue. At the meeting of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, I called for a public debate on debate with NGOs, experts, citizens. Why is there no such discussion? I appeal to the importers and to the chairmen of the committees that were leading in viewing this Law. To importers: You have proven that you do not listen to an opinion other than yours when discussing changes to the Ministry of Interior Act. But at least in a public debate, during a public discussion of this Law, the arguments for the proposed texts and regulation could be heard, so that everyone could be aware of the texts of the proposed Law. It's not just the debate about whether or not the office is subject to the President's orders. There are different practices in different countries. Aren't you interested in the sensitivity of society to the National Security Service, Mr. Tsvetanov? With the proposed Law you regulate who the protected persons are, create conditions to pay for the service of national security. To the ruling majority, please refine the texts, do not show that in 25 years there will be a law. Until now, the work of the National Security Service has also been regulated by other acts, and it has performed its functions even though an example of the last days has been required for the guard to declare that it trusts the service that it trusts the employees of the National Security Service. Take your time! First, listen to how people want to work such a service and who should be within the scope of this service. You know perfectly well that we as MPs have this privilege of listening to people, listen to what people want from us as a legislative body to adopt specific texts on the work of the National Security Service. Let us comply with this request, not without having a public debate, hurry to a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u222	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Simeonov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u223	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! For the entire period of its existence, this service has not obeyed any particular law. We also do not share what the speaker said that she was subject to certain regulations. No regulation shall cover the overall activity, powers and obligations. During this entire period of time, the NSA actually worked outside the law, I'd say above the law. If we turn to the black statistics of violations and catastrophes that have been committed so far by this service, we can conclude that it has also worked illegally. The proposed Draft at first reading is experienced or at least so considered as an attempt to legitimise the activity, duties and powers of this service. Unfortunately, when reading the text, we find that this is not the case. On the contrary, my opinion is that this Law makes an attempt to do something impossible, to legitimize something illegal. If I may, I will draw attention to some texts in support of my words. First of all, without getting into the specifics, after reading the Law carefully, it did not become clear to me the formation of the budget of this office. Is there gonna be $40 million left, or isn't there? Secondly, without having anything against those working at the NTAC, I still want to know if this service will remain in a group of 1200 people. I understand that these people have to work, and that's good. Is this how this service should exist, without clarity about the budget and without a structure that I think should be adopted? When we enter into the specific texts, for example, personally I am annoyed by the violation of the rights of Bulgarian citizens regardless of the position and position they hold. I believe this Law is absolutely anti-democratic. I don't understand why under art. 20, para. 1, t. 1, 2 and 3 people who must be guarded why can't they give up? [[Reply.]] That's right! Someone might have purely family considerations about it. But with this law, we make him a prisoner, we arrest him 24 hours a day. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 4 there are activities that belong to NSOs, which are actually police activities, such as security of events in the country organised by the relevant authority. Isn't that why there's police, there's gendarmes?! There is also duplication, not only here, and in other texts that I will not dwell on. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24: The degree of threat which actually gives the right to apply more serious measures, naturally related to limiting the freedom of people to a particular event, this degree of threat under art. 21, para. 5 I read, as it is written: the kind, the volume and duration of the security provided, and its termination is determined by a committee decision. Let's see who's on this committee now. By para. 1 The committee shall be composed of a chairman of the Head of the National Security Service. Member: The Chairman of the State Agency of National Security and the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior. The head of the National Security Service is directly interested to invent as serious circumstances as possible to implement the measure that will provide work and, accordingly, the legitimization of his unit. I think it is unacceptable for this committee to be in such a composition. I'm not with the services, Mr. Tsvetanov, maybe you can help me, but I think I can determine another more independent than the direct activity composition. Chapter six: Art. 27 (2): "When necessary to carry out specific tasks of security of persons, objects or events, the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service shall give written or oral orders required for enforcement. (3) In case of inability to give orders under para. 2 they may be carried out by means of actions the meaning of which is understandable to the persons to whom they relate or to whom they are addressed. That's a little much for me now. What does that mean? From my humble experience, it means that since I cannot be warned, since I cannot be notified in writing, it will be applied to me to some form of coercion, some form of brutal coercion. For example, for the reason that his Majesty, the president, for example, is moving against me, I will be pushed out of the NSO's SUV. Sorry, I don't like this. I can't accept texts like that. Or at the very least, if necessary, let it be regulated that it can be done at a certain degree of increased risk. But that text is gone, missing. Art. 29: For the performance of the security activities, officers and sergeants of the National Security Service may require information from public authorities and organizations, legal and natural persons, subject to the requirements of the Law on the Protection of qualified information and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. What's coming out of here? They may require any information from anyone, including legal entities, including companies. Is that right? I believe that this is not right, and this is beyond any powers, violations of the freedoms and rights of both citizens and commercial entities. How is it that under the pretext of protecting the lives of some of the people to be protected, some will break into my company, ask me for complete documentation, references and whatnot? That's exactly what it means. There are no restrictions here. This can happen anywhere, absolutely anywhere in any point of Bulgaria. Further on: In order to carry out their tasks under this law, officers and interns from the National Security Service may also carry out checks on items and substances.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 30. Where will these checks be carried out? When? It's not clear. Can they do them all over the country, anywhere? Or in the vicinity of endangered objects? Not at all! With these texts, however, excuse me, honourable importers, you are expanding the authority of this unit entirely on the perimeter of the powers of police, intelligence and all other services, at least from my point of view it is so. Next para. 2 of art. 30: "To prevent violation of the life, privacy, health and dignity of the person under review, identification documents, baggage, cargo, means of transport, objects may be required. The check is carried out in a way that does not undermine the honour and dignity of the citizens. How are you gonna fuck me up and keep my dignity? It's just not gonna happen. Why didn't you try to correct the text, at least determine what perimeter, when, under what circumstances could this be done? I'm sorry, between these 1200 people, I personally know people who don't have just a gram of restraint in terms of their duties and in terms of their human behavior, and they don't have elementary education! And these people are given the right to perform almost everything that is laid down in art. 30. Further on: in art. 31 It is even given the opportunity to carry out activities that are inherent in closely specialised services, such as the Food Agency. Turns out they also need to check the quality of the food. They have that right. Do they have specialists? Or maybe it'll get even more...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u224	They do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u225	I'm not familiar. I'm just asking you a question. Is that right? During the performance of his duties the officers and sergeants of the National Service...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 34 may use physical force, aids and so on in response to or refusal to execute a legal order. And then how will it prove that there was or was no reaction... Talking to you until recently, the owner of a cable-TV company, against the operators of which NSO employees applied unacceptable violence in Sozopol, guarding the eater at a restaurant at 50 m Ahmed Dogan. They broke my cameras! Is this what you want to do again? Is that the law? They haven't been paid yet, by the way. The order for the use of assistance shall be determined by an act of the Head of the National Security Service. I am strongly opposed to this text, not just me, and my colleagues. Absolutely! In my opinion, the order to use aids should be determined by another institution, why not by the National Assembly. In the event of a stop of a vehicle, we are already going to art. 35, para. 2, In carrying out their duties, officers and sergeants may, in the following cases, have the right to use weapons: to stop a means of transport through its damage, when its driver poses a real danger to the safety of the protected persons and objects or a danger to the lives and health of the people. Again, I believe that in such cases, by giving such powers, there should be a very strict, precise regulation. Most of the following somewhere around 15 pages actually represent a copy of the Labour Code. Nothing else! Vacations, breaks, working hours, how to make amends and so on. I don't think these texts have a place in one of these laws. To me, they're just added to make it look more massive and more impressive. We're on our way to Section Two. Property liability. For damage caused to citizens under the conditions of para. 1 employees shall not be liable to damages. Congratulations! In these cases, the State is obliged to compensate damages for all property and non-material damage according to the general rules of civil law. After that, in art. 98 I am already paying attention to people who think practically, pragmatically and financially, see what member there is: the State and the officers, and the sergeants of the National Security Service are not responsible for harming third parties when they are judged under exceptional circumstances or carrying out actions related to the protection of the national security of the country. Well, if that's what you think democracy is, then vote it out. Finally, I would like to draw attention to and express the position of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. With such a vague and regulated budget, composition, powers, obligations, the cardinal question stands out: does such a specialized service by a separate law need at all? Is it not right, as in many European countries, to be a specialized unit with the police? And finally, just to conclude, to ease the tragic hairs a little bit, I'll go back to art. 34, para. 7, where it is written that the use of physical force, aids, special techniques and techniques is prohibited in relation to visible minors and pregnant women and so on. Mr. Tsvetanov, I'm sure that you, although you are a colleague, can't say for example to a colleague Mrs. Mariana Georgieva, whether she is pregnant or not. I'm sure Mr. Lutvi Mestan as the chairman of the group can't determine either. [[Radio.]] So how is a cop gonna determine whether she's pregnant or not? You know very well that pregnancy is a physiological act...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u226	Mr. Simeonov, let's concentrate seriously on... You've gone too far, Mr. Simeonov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u227	It's just that the law wants a very serious revision and I'm still asking the question that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u228	One of the possible answers is through the media. The media informs us who's pregnant and who's not.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u229	No, I'm done. But if it doesn't stop me from finishing, I might as well move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u230	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u231	Not in the direction in which I would like to continue, but there remains the serious question of whether there should even be such a service and whether there should be a bill and a law for it. In conclusion, the Patriot Front Group will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u232	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u233	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, time has come a long way, we're tired, but we have to finalize the bill. For me, the big problem with this bill is that it creates a hybrid. I did not take part in the vote in the committee for this particular reason. What does the hybrid consist of?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u234	Excuse me, Mr. Atanasov. Lachezar Ivanov and Velizar Enchev! Go on, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u235	Thank you. The problem arises from the fact that under the Constitution art. 105, para. 2 The Council of Ministers is responsible for the protection of public order and security in the country, which means that it is the Council of Ministers who directs all units and structures related to the public order and security of the country. Adapting this office to the president creates a problem for this reason. In order for her to be subject to the President remains part of the armed forces, and at the same time we burden her with police powers. That is, part of the armed forces will act on the territory of the country as police. From now on follow all other problems, including parliamentary control. The written text in the bill that parliamentary control will be carried out through the Specialized Commission over a structure which is subordinate to the Head of State. Henceforth comes the problem with the status of employees precisely because this structure remains part of the armed forces also comes these problems with the status of employees. I don't mean to be petty, but notice: seven days off on a civil marriage will be able to use every employee at NTAC. I'm sorry, what about the others when they get married when they do that? Do they take regular vacations, I don't know what's going on?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u236	She's on leave.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u237	I would like to point out that there is an anti-terrorism centre in Bulgaria. In general, its activity is not publicly known, so it should be. I don't know what this anti-terrorist center is doing, but a unit responsible for the security of senior officials in the state should be part of the anti-terrorist center in the country. Finally, colleagues, an extremely important element of the Law. That's the problem with gathering information about the guards. Over the years, there have been several serious scandals in this connection, collected information about the protected persons emerging from the yellow media, which means that it has been abused, and you now want through this Law the control of the use of this information to provide it to the head of the service. That's absurd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u238	- What's the line? I won't. Come in, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u239	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I ask you very much to take the bills that we are looking at today and let us not interpret certain texts in the Law, as it is to us. Because what was said by my respected Radan Kanev does not answer the truth. Attempts were made to suggest that 4 million were given to fight terrorism. I don't know where he gets that number, but I am definitely answering you that there is no such money that is given and that it is written that they are for the fight against terrorism. Because we need to consider national security as an integrated organism that counteracts and works and is directly subject to this elementary law, which we adopted today at first reading and the first one that was on the agenda of today's meeting, where the necessary coordination is also being carried out so that we can be adequate to all these potential risks and threats to the national security of the country. What we're talking about right now is if anyone's gonna be pregnant, if anyone's... Please, let's take this seriously. First, we must pay our respects to all these employees, who, for 25 years after the democratic processes in Bulgaria came each of the parliamentary parties represented, except perhaps on the Patriotic Front, but there are IMROs, have participated and benefited from all that is available today as the National Security Service. This National Security Service, when it has functioned and is currently acting as such, means that it has fulfilled its functional duties and they have been accepted normally by all parliamentarians who have been here in Parliament and have not given a proposal to change what you say on the left today, the Reformation bloc and the Patriotic Front. Please, let's take this seriously and not really get into this little thing, which I think is offensive to the MPs themselves. Today we are talking about bills that are extremely important. Every one of those who spoke said that there were no laws for 25 years. Colleagues, since we are talking today that we want to legally regulate this matter, why are we talking that this is not necessary or that this is necessary? The very fact that these structures have functioned for 25 years means that they are necessary. Please, let's take this more seriously and basically focus on closing today's debate. Maybe we got a little tired, but I think this is not serious in the way we go out and defend a certain position. You have seen how tolerant we were from the GERB Parliamentary Group in order not to aggravate today's debate. We have done to seek the maximum consensus and to be able to express each one's opinion. Given that today we are talking about adopting at first reading and each of you expressing his critical opinions between first and second tomorrow, tomorrow, I suppose a proposal will also be made by colleagues from the GERB Parliamentary Group, to actually be able, in these debates that took place today, to have the maximum time extension period between first and second readings, because we want to actually find a political consensus. Do not accept that this is a bill which is submitted by the parliamentary group of GERB or by colleagues from ABB, who also joined the introduction of these bills. These are bills that are discussed and discussed at all possible forums at the highest national level and indeed everyone has come to the conclusion that there should be such laws. Let us be a little more humble and actually be more objective and more constructive. I believe that the GERB Parliamentary Group has shown real tolerance today for us to hear all the different opinions, but in no case to enter this confrontational wave, which was set in the last draft by colleagues specifically from the Reformation Block and the Patriotic Front. Let's be more constructive! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u240	First line, Radan Kanev. [[Reply by National Representative Radan Kanev.]] You're first in line, Mr. Iankov. After him is Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u241	Madam President, colleagues! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, in my speech, I have called on you not to demonstrate that there has been no law for 25 years. I draw your attention to the fact that there is a regulation in which the service works. You're still stepping on this: there was no 25 years of law. I remind you that this is actually what I said, and otherwise do not speculate that the Law has been discussed as texts. I myself have urged you to have a public debate, to hear what the public is asking for, what people want. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And how did you do that? Because even in the public discussion of the Ministry of Interior Act, you did not comply with the experts who gave you their opinion. You took it as a majority. Now you declare and suggest that there is no truth that there is a discussion that these texts are generally acceptable. In this debate, it became clear that it wasn't, was it? However, you and your manner are trying to create a feeling that this Law is entirely precise and thus must be adopted. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Consider the opinions of the colleagues in this Chamber, because they express the opinion of the voters who sent them here. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u242	Mr. Kanev, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u243	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I really fully share your call not to have any confrontation, but I believe that the issues that we have raised both I and Mr. Atanasov of the Reformation Block are questions principled and deep... there was no confrontation, and at least we want on this topic in the Chamber to become some clashes. You can see that these people who oppose this bill are quite colorful, and I think that we are looking at this extremely basically. I want to focus on exactly what you said. There must be a single national strategy, a single leadership. I said the same words. I said: and single funding of all activities related to national security and terrorist threats. This Law of the four we vote today is the patch in the blanket. It does not fit the others because the rest are provided with all the disputes that we can have on them to modernise the national security system in Bulgaria, and this one is intended to protect some old privileges. And it's no argument that they've all been using each other. Of course they've all been used. The point is to stop from one moment at a time. We do not need to find something that every Bulgarian knows that politicians in Bulgaria enjoy far more privileges than those who need them to do their job, and on top of all that, we do not do our job so well with all our privileges. [[Noise and lines.]] With regard to the people who work at the NSA. We not only owe them recognition of their qualities and of everything they have done so far. We owe them responsibility for the future to use their qualities in the service of a much wider range of Bulgarian citizens, that is the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u244	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Karakachanov was first, Mr. Lazarov. I'm sorry. You have the opportunity to take a statement, the group has time. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u245	Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, the course we have taken is not confrontational. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u246	Mr. Lazarov, you're preventing Mr. Tsvetanov from hearing the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u247	I'm telling Mr. Tsvetanov that the position of the Patriotic Front is not confrontational. It's just an expression of one opinion, nothing more. When there is a different opinion that is not liked by another, it is not a confrontation, it is a simple democracy, nothing more. Speaking of the Patriot Front, with the exception of the IMRO, I will tell you that in a previous parliament in which I have been, and I have received threats from a variety of semi-fiction people, but I have always refused security because I thought it was not serious. Unlike some other politicians who were sending themselves signals that someone was threatening them to lead NSO's service Mercedes. [[Noise and lines.]] We all know who they are. He's not one. There's not one! From this point of view, our position is not against this service. It existed 25 years after the changes and I still don't know how many years before them. She's been doing her job according to some precepts, and so on, yes, it's normal to have a law. The problem here is another, to think about philosophy. Is it normal for the Specialized Counterterrorist Squad to be a hundred people and should care for eight million people, while 1200 people should care for, say, 100 people of the elite? It's not normal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u248	What do you mean, it's not normal?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u249	It's not normal. It's not normal, and I can give you a lot of examples. Check how it is in Germany, you know things, you go there regularly, you have enough acquaintances, see how it is there, and not just in Germany. Don't give me an example with the United States alone, with Secret Service. This is a completely different situation. God forbid we become a great power like the United States. But that's another topic. We have a different opinion about our fellow Members who support us!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u250	It's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u251	And we think it's not normal. [[the President signals that time has run out]] for the Specialised Counter-Terrorism Unit, the budget shall be 10 "12 times smaller' than for the Security Office. It is not normal that the budget of this service is greater than that of the National Intelligence Service.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u252	The time of the parliamentary group and the line is over. Thank you!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u253	Just one sentence to mention. This service must be dealt with in the context of a common anti-terrorism legislation and policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u254	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. [[GERB lines.]] Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u255	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues, perhaps for the first time in recent years, and perhaps 15 years, the subject of national security legislation has been discussed. Mr. Kanev, the founding document, as you said, is the National Strategy for National Security. The first was adopted in 1998. An attempt was made to make and adopt the second one in 2005. In 2011 the National Strategy was adopted in March by the Bulgarian Parliament. This is the founding document. [[shows him]] on which we implement these legislative changes, which we see today as a package. As far as discussions are concerned. All that we have done and at the Advisory Council with the President, those who were then involved in the discussions, which were in the Forty-first National Assembly, that was in April 2012. We have made broad discussions and invited the maximum representatives of all civil organisations involved. This is in July 2014. Colleagues, we have always held to discussion and debate on every single proposal that has been made. And that was said by Mr. Angel Naydenov today. All legislative proposals between first and second readings in the Forty-first National Assembly have been taken into account and have found a place in the legislative package that we are looking at today. Please, let's treat each other with respect again. And I say again, this is a bill, these are bills that have been dealt with all these 15 years. It is taken into account absolutely everything that could have found its application in this legal matter. As far as Mr. Karakachanov is concerned, Mr. Karakachanov, I did not take offense or in any way offend the Patriotic Front, especially you, because you were not in the Chamber when I made the statement. That's why I think you may have been misled in the way that you were recreated by what I said. Thank you. [[BSP and PF lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-20.u256	Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? No. There are calls for an end to the debate, I share them. The debate is closed. [[Radio.]] I would like to invite the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber. The Quaestors, help me! I put to the first vote a Bill on the National Security Service, importers: Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. They voted 147 MPs: 106 against 11, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] The time defined as the duration of today's plenary sitting on debates and voting on the four bills is fulfilled. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
