ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please register. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of Parliament, at yesterday's Chairmanial Council, we specified on the draft Programme for the National Assembly's work for the period from 16 December to 18 December 2015, informing the participants that I expect a proposal from the Prime Minister for a change in the composition of the Council of Ministers. I suggest to your attention the following Programme for this week: "1." Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was accepted in the first vote on 7 October 2015. 2. Third vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers are Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs. He was adopted in the first vote on 23 September 2015 and in the second vote on 9 December 2015. This point is scheduled to start today at 10:00 p.m. with a direct broadcast from National Television and National Radio. 3. Draft decision on changes in the composition of the Council of Ministers. 4. The National Health Strategy 2020 and the Project for a Decision on its adoption. Yesterday we fully accepted the Insurance Code, which is why he dropped out of the preliminary programme. 5. A draft declaration concerning the invitation to Montenegro for NATO membership. Importers are: Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Lyutvi Mestan, Radan Kanev, Valeri Simeonov, Krasimir Karakachanov, Krasimira Kovachka, Svetlin Tanchev, Miho Mihov, Gemma Grozdanova, Plamen Manushev, Boris Stanimirov, Angel Naydenov, Atanas Merdjanov and Valentin Radev. 6. Projects for decisions on the demands of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to give permissions to excite criminal prosecutions against Volen Nikolov Siderov, MP in the Forty-third National Assembly. Importer is the Temporary Commission on the Demands of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to give permissions to excite criminal prosecutions against Volen Nikolov Siderov, MP at the Forty-third National Assembly. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. Importers are Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. He was adopted in the first vote on 10 December 2015. 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 9. First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 10. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Cultural Heritage Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 11. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Regional Development. Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs are importing the first bill. The second bill is by the Council of Ministers of 21 August 2015. 12. Parliamentary control under art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for Friday at 11.00 Please vote. Vote 182 MPs: 155 against 7, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. No proposals have been made according to the order of art. 50, para. 3 On behalf of the parliamentary groups to include additional points in the weekly programme. Reports of bills and draft decisions concerning the time from 9 December to 15 December 2015: Draft amending and supplementing the National Emergency System Act with single European number 112. Importers are Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. It has been assigned to the Leading Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Report of the Bulgarian National Bank for January and June 2015 and budget of the Bulgarian National Bank for 2016. Import is the Bulgarian National Bank. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Assistance and Financial Compensation of Victims of Crime. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It will also be discussed by the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill to amend and supplement the Roads Act. Importers are Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. It is allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Let's start with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PROTECTION FROM THE MEDICAL REACTIONS OF CHEMICAL INGREDIENTS AND MESSAGES. The report belongs to the Committee on Environment and Water. Mr. Ivanov will introduce us to the proposals of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I'm asking for a procedure. On the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow them to be admitted to the Chamber by the Ministry of Health Adam Persenski, Deputy Minister, Anna Maslarova, Chief Expert at the Department of State Health Control, Polina Dencheva, Head of the Department of Administrative Acts and Contracts and by the Ministry of Environment and Water Maria Galabova, Director of the Department of Public Health Control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u3	Let's vote. Vote 149 MPs: 142, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u4	The Law on the Protection from the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes is amended and supplemented. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u5	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Voting 137 MPs: 127, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u6	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u7	Statements under § 1 and § 2? I won't. Anblok, we are voting on the two importing paragraphs supported by the Commission. Vote 131 MPs: 119, no objection, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u8	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In the name of Chapter Three, the last entry is added to Regulation (EU) No 259/2012. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. Chapter 4 with art. 14 - 19h is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u9	Statements under paragraphs 3, 4 and 5? I won't. We are voting on the three paragraphs, two of them in the Commission's version, and § 4 by importer supported by it. Vote 139 MPs: 132, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u10	........................................................... A new Chapter 4 is hereby established: supplied use of biocidal products containing existing active substances included in Annex II to Delegated Regulation (EU) No Art. 14. The Minister of Health shall be a competent authority within the meaning of art. 81 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. Art. 14a. Biocides shall be made available on the market and used when authorised under that law or in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. Art. 14b. Treated articles satisfying the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 are placed on the market. Art. 15. (1) The Minister of Health shall establish by order an Expert Panel on Biocidal Products. (2) Representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis and the National Centre for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases shall participate in the Expert Committee on Biocidal Products. (3) The Minister of Health may draw, if necessary, to the work of the Expert Committee on Biocidal Products and other specialists in the field of...............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u11	There is no expert in the report, you read para. 3? Something's... Here's my report. Start over the paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u12	........................................................... New Chapter 4 is created with new art. 14? 19a: supplied use of biocidal products containing existing active substances included in Annex II to Delegated Regulation (EU) No Art. 14. The Minister of Health shall be a competent authority within the meaning of art. 81, (1) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. Art. 14a. Biocides shall be made available on the market and used when authorised under that law or in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. Art. 14b. Treated articles satisfying the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 are placed on the market. Art. 5. (1) The Minister of Health shall establish by order an Expert Panel on Biocidal Products. (2) In the Council under para. 1 representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis and the National Centre for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases participate. (3) The Minister of Health may attract, if necessary, the work of the Council under para. 1 and other specialists in Toxicology, Ecotoxicology, Chemistry, Biology, Microbiology, Virology, Parasitology and Veterinary Medicine. (4) The Council under para. 1 propose to the Minister of Health for: 1. preparation of an opinion on conducting or banning the conduct of research and development under art. 56, (2) and (3) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 2. issue of a national authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or biocidal product group, or for refusal or termination of the procedure under art. 29 and 30 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 3. renewal of a national authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product under art. 31 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 4. issue of an authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or a group of biocidal products in accordance with a simplified procedure or for refusal or termination of the procedure under art. 25 and 26 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 5. issue of an authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or a group of biocidal products for mutual recognition under art. 33 and 34 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 either for refusal or for modification of the conditions of an authorisation granted under art. 35-37 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 6. renewal of authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product by mutual recognition under Delegated Regulation (EU) No 492/2014; 7. issue of an authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or a group of biocidal products for mutual recognition under art. 39 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 8. revocation or amendment of a national authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product under art. 48-50 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 and of Chapter II and III of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 354/2013 of 18 April 2013 concerning the amendments to biocidal products authorised under Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OB, L 109/4 of 19 April 2013)), hereinafter referred to as the Implementing Regulation (EU) No 354/2013. 9. evaluation of applications for European Union authorisation, hereinafter referred to as the Union authorisation, for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or a biocidal product group or for the termination of the procedure under art. 43, para. 1, para. 3, para. 4 and under art. 44, para. 1 and 2 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 10. Evaluation of applications for renewal of a Union authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product under art. 46, para. 1 and para. 2 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 11. issue of authorisation for parallel trade of a biocidal product or refusal or revocation of authorisation for parallel trade of a biocidal product under art. 53 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 12. Evaluation of applications for approval of an active substance for its inclusion in the List of approved active substances in the European Union or for termination of the procedure under art. 7 and 8 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 13. Evaluation of applications for the renewal of the approval of an active substance for its inclusion in the list of approved active substances in the European Union under art. 14 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 14. Issue of temporary authorisation and extension of the term under art. 55, para. 1 and para. 2 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 15. Issue of authorisation for identical biocidal product or refusal under art. 3 and 5 of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 414/2013 of 6 May 2013 laying down the procedure for the authorisation of identical biocidal products in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OB, L 125/4 of 7 May 2013)), hereinafter referred to as "Implementing Regulation (EU) No 414/2013'; 16. Issue of an authorisation under Article 16. 18c, para. 5 or for termination of the procedure under art. 18c, para. 4; 17. amendment of authorisation under art. 18d, para. 1 or for revocation of authorisation under art. 18d, para. 1; 18. issue of a new authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product, amending or repealing authorisations issued in the cases referred to in art. 18g, para. 1 and 2. Art. 15a. (1) The meetings of the Council under art. 15, para. 1 shall be deemed to be held on a regular basis when more than half of its members are present. (2) The Council referred to in art. 15, para. 1 makes the proposals under art. 15, para. 4 on the basis of decisions adopted by a majority of more than half of the members present. (3) The members of the council under art. 15, para. 1 they shall not disclose the information which has become known to them in the course of or due to the performance of their duties, which is a production or commercial secret. They shall sign a data confidentiality statement. (4) The work of the Council under art. 15, para. 1 shall be provided with funds from the budget of the Ministry of Health. (5) The Minister of Health shall issue rules for the organisation and activities of the Council under art. 15, para. 1. (6) With the rules of para. The requirements for the education and qualification of the members of the council under Article 5 shall also be laid down. 15, para. 1. Art. 16. The Ministry of Health shall establish and administer a national information bureau in accordance with art. 81, para. 2 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 providing advice to persons making biocidal products available on the market on the occasion of their obligations under the Regulation. Art. 17. (1) The Minister of Health shall give an opinion on the conduct of research and development under art. 56 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012, including trials or tests with unauthorised biocidal products or non-approved active substances which release or release a biocidal product or active substance into the environment. (2) The person to perform the experience or test under para. 1 shall inform the Minister of Health in advance and shall also apply to the notification: 1. the data under art. 56, para. 2 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 2. a document for a fee paid under art. 19th para. 1, t. 1. Art. 17a. (1) The Minister of Health shall grant a national authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or a biocidal product group under art. 29 and 30 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. (2) For the issue of the authorisation under para. 1 The applicant or his representative shall apply in Bulgarian to which he applies: 1. details of the unique identification code under art. 23 of the Commercial Register Act or an equivalent registration document in accordance with the law of another Member State of the European Union, or in accordance with the law of another State, a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 2. the documents referred to in art. Article 20 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012, with the exception of the cases referred to in art. 21 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 3. a document for a fee paid under art. 19th para. 1, t. 2. Art. 17b. (1) The Minister of Health shall authorise the making available on the market of biocidal products or a group of biocidal products under simplified procedure under art. 26 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 if they comply with the conditions laid down in art. 25 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. (2) For the issue of the authorisation under para. 1 The applicant or his representative shall apply in Bulgarian to which he applies: 1. details of the unique identification code under art. 23 of the Commercial Register Act or an equivalent registration document in accordance with the law of another Member State of the European Union, or in accordance with the law of another State, a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 2. the documents referred to in art. 20 (1) point (b) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012, except for the cases referred to in art. 21 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 3. a document for a fee paid under art. 19th para. 1, t. 3. Art. 17c. (1) The Minister of Health shall renew the national authorisation under art. 17a when there are conditions under art. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. (2) For renewal of the authorisation under para. 1 the holder of the authorisation or his representative shall submit an application in the Bulgarian language to which he applies: 1. details of the unique identification code under art. 23 of the Commercial Register Act or an equivalent registration document in accordance with the law of another Member State of the European Union, or in accordance with the law of another State, a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 2. the documents referred to in art. 31 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 3. a document for a fee paid under art. 19th para. 1, t. 4. Art. 17 years old. (1) The Minister of Health shall grant authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or a biocidal product group by subsequent mutual recognition of a national authorisation under art. 33 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. (2) For the issue of the authorisation under para. 1 The applicant or his representative shall submit to the Ministry of Health an application in Bulgarian to which he shall apply: 1. the authorisation issued by the Member State concerned of the European Union in which the biocidal product is first authorised, accompanied by a translation into Bulgarian made by a translator who has concluded a contract with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; 2. a document for a fee paid under art. 19th para. 1, t. 5. Art. 17e. (1) The Minister of Health shall authorise the making available on the market of a biocidal product or a biocidal product group by means of parallel mutual recognition where the Republic of Bulgaria is elected as a reference Member State under art. 34 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. (2) For the issue of the authorisation under para. 1 The applicant or his representative shall submit to the Ministry of Health an application in Bulgarian to which he shall apply: 1. the documents referred to in Article 1. points (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 are replaced by the following: 2. a document for a fee paid under art. 19th para. 1, t. 6. (3) The Minister of Health shall authorise the making available on the market of a biocidal product or a biocidal product group by means of parallel mutual recognition where the Republic of Bulgaria is elected as an interested Member State under art. Point (b) of Article 34 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. (4) For the issue of the authorisation under para. 3 The applicant or his representative shall submit to the Ministry of Health an application in Bulgarian to which he shall apply: 1. the documents referred to in Article 1. in points (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012, points (a) and (b) of the Annex to that Regulation are replaced by the following: 2. a document for a fee paid under art. 19th para. 1, t. 7. (5) The permits under para. 1 and 3 shall be issued in accordance with Article 3. 34 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 for a biocidal product or a group of biocidal products not yet authorised in accordance with art. 17 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. Art. 17f. (1) The Minister of Health shall, at the request of official or scientific bodies dealing with pest control or public health protection, grant authorisation to make available on the market of a biocidal product or biocidal product group authorised in another Member State of the European Union by mutual recognition of the authorisation. (2) For the issue of the authorisation under para. 1 The applicant or his representative shall submit to the Ministry of Health an application in Bulgarian to which he shall apply: 1. the authorisation issued by the Member State concerned of the European Union in which the biocidal product is first authorised, accompanied by a translation into Bulgarian made by a translator who has concluded a contract with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; 2. a document for a fee paid under art. 19th para. 1, t. 8. (3) The permits under para. 1 shall be issued in accordance with Article 1. 33 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. Art. 17g. (1) The Minister of Health shall renew the authorisation to make available on the market of a biocidal product or a biocidal product group under art. 17d and 17e in accordance with Delegated Regulation (EU) No 492/2014. (2) The Minister of Health shall renew an authorisation to make available on the market of a biocidal product or a biocidal product group through subsequent or parallel mutual recognition where the Republic of Bulgaria is elected as a reference Member State. (3) For renewal of the authorisation under para. 2 The applicant or his representative shall submit to the Ministry of Health an application in Bulgarian to which he shall apply: 1. the documents referred to in Article 1. 2 of Delegated Regulation (EU) No 492/2014; 2. a document for a fee paid under art. 19th para. 1, t. 9. (4) The Minister of Health shall renew an authorisation to make available on the market of a biocidal product or biocidal product group through subsequent or parallel mutual recognition where the Republic of Bulgaria is elected as an interested Member State. (5) For the issue of the authorisation under para. 4 The applicant or his representative shall submit to the Ministry of Health an application in Bulgarian to which he shall apply: 1. the documents referred to in Article 1. 2 of Delegated Regulation (EU) No 492/2014; 2. a document for a fee paid under art. 19th para. 1, t. 10. Art. 17h. (1) The Minister of Health shall revoke or amend the authorisations granted under art. 17a, 17b, 17d and 17e at the request of the authorisation holder, subject to the requirements of art. 49 and 50 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. (2) To amend the authorisation granted under art. 17a, 17d or 17e the holder of the authorisation or his representative shall submit an application in the Bulgarian language to which he applies: 1. details of the unique identification code under art. 23 of the Commercial Register Act or an equivalent registration document in accordance with the law of another Member State of the European Union, or in accordance with the law of another State, a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 2. the relevant documents under art. 5-8 of Implementing Regulation (EU) No 354/2013; 3. a document for a fee paid under art. 19th para. 1, t. 11. (3) To amend the authorisation granted under art. 17b the holder of the authorisation or his representative shall submit a notification in Bulgarian, subject to the requirements of art. 9 of Implementing Regulation (EU) No 354/2013. (4) The Minister of Health shall revoke or amend the authorisations granted under art. 17a, 17b, 17d and 17e in the cases referred to in art. 48 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012, subject to the requirements of art. 48 (2) and (3) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. Art. 17th. (1) The Minister of Health shall issue a marketing authorisation for an identical biocidal product under art. 2, 3 and 5 of Implementing Regulation (EU) No 414/2013. (2) For the issue of the authorisation under para. 1 The applicant or his representative shall apply in Bulgarian to which he applies: 1. the documents referred to in Article 1. 2 of Implementing Regulation (EU) No 414/2013; 2. a document for a fee paid under art. 19th para. 1, t. 12. Art. 17k. (1) The Minister of Health shall grant authorisation for parallel trade of a biocidal product authorised in another Member State of the European Union and shall be identical to a biocidal product authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 53 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. (2) For the issue of the authorisation under para. 1 The applicant or his representative shall apply in Bulgarian to which he applies: 1. the documents referred to in Article 1. 53 (4) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 2. a document for a fee paid under art. 19th para. 1, t. 13. Art. 17L. (1) The Minister of Health shall assess the applications for the issue or renewal of a Union authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or a biocidal product group under art. Art. 43 (1), (3) and (4), Art. Art. 44 (1) and (2) and Art. 44 (1) and (2) 46 (1) and (2) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. (2) The assessment under para. 1 shall be carried out after prior written consent by the Minister of Health to the applicant. (3) For carrying out the assessment under para. 1 The applicant shall pay a fee under art. 19th para. 1, t. 14. Art. 17 meters. (1) The Minister of Health shall assess the applications for approval of an active substance for inclusion in the list of approved active substances in the European Union under art. 9 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 or for subsequent amendments to the conditions of approval of an active substance under art. 8 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. (2) The assessment under para. 1 shall be carried out after prior written consent by the Minister of Health to the applicant. (3) For carrying out the assessment under para. 1 The applicant shall pay a fee under art. 19th para. 1, t. 15. Art. 17n. (1) The Minister of Health shall grant temporary authorisation for making available on the market of a biocidal product or a biocidal product group under art. 55 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 following an evaluation of the application under art. 17 meters. (2) For the issue of the authorisation under para. 1 The applicant shall submit to the Ministry of Health an application in Bulgarian language to which a document for a fee paid under art. 19th para. 1, t. 16 Art. 17th. (1) The Minister of Health, on a proposal from the applicant and after having confirmed in advance to the applicant, shall carry out an assessment of the applications for renewal of approval of an active substance for inclusion in the List of approved active substances in the European Union under art. 9 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. (2) To carry out the assessment under para. 1 The applicant shall pay a fee under art. 19th para. 1, t. 17. Art. 17p. Applications and documents for the procedures under art. 17a 17o shall be submitted to the Ministry of Health through the Register for Biocidal Products under art. 71 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. Art. 17p. Biocids to be made available on the market in accordance with art. 17a-17o, shall be classified, packaged and labelled in accordance with the provisions of art. 69 of Regulation (EC) No 528/2012 in Bulgarian. Art. 18. (1) The Minister of Health may authorise the making available on the market of a biocidal product or a biocidal product group containing: 1. existing active substance/existing active substances which have been evaluated in accordance with Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No are not yet approved for this product-type; 2. existing active substance/existing active substances currently assessed in accordance with Delegated Regulation (EU) No are not yet approved for this product-type; 3. a combination of active substances referred to in point 3. 1 and 2 and for active substances approved in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The biocidal product shall be authorised where: 1. the existing active substances in the formulation of the biocidal product are included in Annex II to Delegated Regulation (EU) No 9 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 2. the product type is included in Annex II of Delegated Regulation (EU) No are included and there is no decision by the European Commission on its non-compliance with the list of approved active substances in the European Union under art. 9 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012; 3. the person is established in the territory of the European Union and produces or imports an active substance... alone or in the composition of a biocidal product, or produces or makes available on the market a biocidal product which is composed of, contains or generates this substance which is included in the list of the European Chemicals Agency under art. 95 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012, for the product type to which the biocidal product belongs. (3) Biocids which meet the criteria under art. 19 (4) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 shall not be authorised for mass use. Art. 18a. Biocids under art. 18 shall be classified, packaged and labelled in accordance with the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 (CLP) and art. 69 of Regulation (EC) No 528/2012 in Bulgarian. Art. 18b. (1) For the issue of an authorisation under art. 18 the person placing the biocidal product on the market or his representative shall submit to the Ministry of Health an application in the Bulgarian language to which he applies: 1. details of the unique identification code under art. 23 of the Commercial Register Act or an equivalent registration document in accordance with the law of another Member State of the European Union, or in accordance with the law of another State, a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 2. documents of compliance with art. 95 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012, which may be letters of access within the meaning of art. 3 (1), point (u) of Regulation (EC) No 528/2012, contracts, invoices and others; 3. technical file of the biocidal product; 4. information sheet for safety under art. 7b; 5. a document for a fee paid under art. 19th para. 1, t. 18. (2) The documents under para. 1, t. 3 and 4 shall be presented in Bulgarian, one copy of the document, and three copies of the electronic medium accompanied by a declaration of identity of the information submitted in paper and electronic form. Art. 18c. (1) Within 45 days of the date of entry of the documents under art. 18b, para. 2 check the completeness of the data in them. (2) The Minister of Health shall inform the applicant and set a time limit for their removal upon finding incompleteness in the documents submitted. (3) The Minister of Health may extend once the term under para. 2 where the applicant submits a reasoned request. (4) Where the applicant does not remove all findings of incompleteness in the documents within the period under para. The authorisation procedure shall be terminated. (5) The Minister of Health shall authorise the making available on the market of a biocidal product or a biocidal product group within 60 days of the date of submission of the documents referred to in art. 18b, para. 2, respectively, from the date of receipt of the information under para. Two or three. Art. 18 years old. (1) The Minister of Health shall review the authorisation granted under art. 18 in the case of: 1. the presence of new data on the effects of the active substance or of the biocidal product on human or the environment; 2. a request from the applicant; 3. a change in the commercial registration of the person making the biocidal product available on the market; 4. changing the pack. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The Minister of Health may require additional information and change the terms of the authorisation granted. (3) An amendment of the authorisation shall be made subject to the requirements of art. 18 and after payment of a fee under art. 19th para. 1, t. 19. (4) When amending an authorisation granted for the making available on the market of a biocidal product, the Minister of Health may set a time limit for the storage, use or distribution of the available quantities of a biocidal product. Art. 18e. (1) The Minister of Health shall revoke the authorisation granted under art. 18, when: 1. the applicant has submitted false and/or misleading data for the authorisation; 2. the active substance is prohibited for placing on the market and for use in the European Union; 3. a reasoned request has been received by the holder of the authorisation. (2) Before revocation of the authorisation under para. 1 The Minister of Health shall inform the holder of the authorisation. (3) Upon revocation of an authorisation granted for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or of a biocidal product group, the Minister of Health may set a time limit for the storage, use or distribution of the available quantities of a biocidal product. Art. 18f. (1) The Minister of Health shall establish by order lists of active substances for which there is a decision of the European Commission that the active substance is not approved for inclusion in the List of approved active substances in the European Union under art. 9, para. 2 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. (2) The order under para. 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and published on the website of the Ministry of Health on the Internet. Art. 18g. (1) Where there is a decision of the European Commission approving an active substance for inclusion in the list of approved active substances in the European Union under art. 9, para. 2 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012, the Minister of Health shall grant a new authorisation to make the biocidal product available on the market, amend or revoke the authorisation granted under art. 18. (2) Where there is a decision of the European Commission that an active substance is not approved for inclusion in the list of approved active substances in the European Union under art. 9, para. 2 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 for certain or all notified product-types, the Minister of Health shall amend or withdraw the issued under art. 18 authorisation in accordance with Delegated Regulation (EU) No 89, para. 2 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. (3) The issue of a new authorisation, amendment or revocation of the authorisation granted under art. 18 shall be carried out in accordance with the decision approving or not to approve the inclusion of an active substance in the list of approved active substances in the European Union under art. 9, para. 2 of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. Art. 18h. Regulation of the Council of Ministers lays down the form and content of: 1. the technical file and documents submitted by the applicant for authorisation to make available on the market of a biocidal product or a biocidal product group under art. 18; 2. the authorisations granted for making available on the market of a biocidal product or a biocidal product group under art. 18. Art. 18th. (1) The Ministry of Health shall keep a register of authorised biocidal products under art. 18. The register shall be public and shall contain: 1. number and date of authorisation for making available on the biocidal product market; 2. period of validity of the authorisation granted where there is a designation; 3. details of the person making available on the market the biocidal product name, seat and address of the management; 4. name of the biocidal product; 5. name and concentration of the active substance/active substances belonging to the biocidal product; 6. type of biocidal product and area of application; 7. category of use; 8. date of revocation of the authorisation; 9. changes in the circumstances of t. 7. (2) In the register under para. 1 a separate section in which the persons applying for the authorisation to make the biocidal product available are entered in the order of submission and describe the number and type of documents attached to the application. This section shall also note the movement of the file formed on the application. (3) By the ordinance referred to in art. The conditions and procedure for keeping the register under para. 18h shall be laid down. 1. Art. 19. (1) With the tariff under art. 46 of the Health Act The Council of Ministers shall determine state fees for: 1. preparation of an opinion on the conduct of research and development activities under art. 17; 2. issuing a national authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or a biocidal product group or a biocidal product group under art. 17a; 3. issue of authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or a group of biocidal products under a simplified procedure under art. 17b; 4. renewal of a national authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or biocidal product group under art. 17c; 5. issue of an authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or a biocidal product group through subsequent mutual recognition under art. 17d; 6. issue of an authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or biocidal product group by means of parallel mutual recognition under art. Seventeen d.o.b. 1; 7. issue of an authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or biocidal product group by means of parallel mutual recognition under art. Seventeen d.o.b. 3; 8. issue of an authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or biocidal product group through mutual recognition under art. 17f; 9. renewal of authorisation for making available on the market of a biocidal product or biocidal product group under art. 17 and 17e, where the Republic of Bulgaria is elected as the Member State of reference; 10. renewal of authorisation for making available on the market of a biocidal product or biocidal product group under art. 17 and 17e, where the Republic of Bulgaria is elected as an interested Member State; 11. amendment of authorisation for making available on the market of a biocidal product or biocidal product group under art. 17a, 17d and 17e; 12. issue of an authorisation for making available on the market of an identical biocidal product under art. 17i; 13. issue of authorisation for parallel trade of a biocidal product under art. 17k; 14. Evaluation of applications for the issue or renewal of a Union authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or biocidal product group under art. 17l; 15. Evaluation of applications for the approval of an active substance under art. 17 m; 16. The granting of a temporary authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or a biocidal product group under art. 17n; 17. Evaluation of applications for renewal of the approval of an active substance referred to in Article 17. 17o; 18. Authorisation to make available on the market of a biocidal product or a biocidal product group under art. 18; 19. a change of authorisation for the making available on the market of a biocidal product or biocidal product group under art. 18; 20. Granting of authorisation under art. 30, para. 5. (2) The funds of the fees under para. 1 shall be paid as revenue under the budget of the Ministry of Health. Art. 19a. The Minister of Health shall send a report on the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 to the European Commission in accordance with art. 65, para. 3 of that Regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u13	Statements under § 6? I won't. We are voting, Members, § 6, and then we will interrupt the second reading of this Bill. Vote 128 MPs: 119, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, it's minutes past 10:00. Direct transmission of National Television and National Radio. Coming up: THE 3rd VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, inc. No 554-01-44, submitted by Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs on 24 July 2015, adopted on a second vote on 9 December 2015. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov.]] Mr. Merdjanov, at yesterday's Chairmanial Council we recalled the procedure again.. Statements from groups during the time of the direct transmission will be held after the vote of the Constitution is held. You cannot use direct transmission for traditional statements on behalf of parliamentary groups. Mr. Lazarov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u14	♪ I can't believe on the third vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-144, submitted by Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs on 24 July 2015, adopted on the second vote on 9 December 2015. In accordance with art. 155, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and according to art. 5, para. 1 of the Rules on the Procedure for the Discussion and Adoption of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria at a meeting held on 14 December 2015, the Temporary Commission for the Discussion of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria discussed the Draft Law prior to its presentation for a third vote in plenary. The main objective of the bill is the implementation of structural and organisational reform of the judiciary in line with international standards, as a prerequisite for overcoming the systemic deficits in the Bulgarian constitutional democracy. 1. With § 1 (Art. 84, p. The 16th sentence of the second sentence, which provides for the National Assembly to be able to hear and adopt other reports of the Prosecutor General on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office on the enforcement of the law, the countering of crime and the realization of criminal policy, aims to increase the accountability of the Prosecutor General and to create prerequisites for making informed management decisions including organisational measures and for legislative activities which rely on a real assessment of criminal factors and existing potential or specific threats to legal order. 2. With § 2, 3, 4 and 5 (Art. 129, 130a, 130b and 130c) provides for the Supreme Judicial Council to exercise its powers by means of a plenary, judge's and prosecutor's college. The Plenum consists of all members of the Supreme Judicial Council. The College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council shall consist of 14 members and shall include the Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation and of the Supreme Administrative Court, six members elected directly by the Judges and six members elected by the National Assembly. The Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council consists of 11 members and includes the Prosecutor General, four members elected directly by prosecutors, one member elected directly by investigators, and five members elected by the National Assembly. Members of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be elected subject to the requirements for the formation of colleges. The Colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council are proposed to carry out the functions and disciplinary responsibility independently, as well as to resolve issues concerning the organisation of the activities of the relevant system of judicial authorities. The Supreme Judicial Council shall propose to the President of the Republic for the appointment and release of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Prosecutor General, a decision to terminate the term of elected member of the Supreme Judicial Council, to manage the real estate of the judiciary, and to decide on matters common to the entire judiciary. The plenary meetings of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be chaired by the Minister of Justice, who shall not take part in the vote. The meetings of the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be chaired by the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and by the Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council. The Minister of Justice may attend the meetings of the Colleges without taking part in the vote. The Chief Inspector may also attend the plenary meetings of the Supreme Judicial Council and the meetings of the College of Judges and Prosecutors of the Supreme Judicial Council, not taking part in the vote. The way in which the members of the Supreme Judicial Council are elected from the parliamentary quota is changed and it is proposed that they be elected by a majority of two thirds of the Members of the National Assembly. The aim of the change is to eliminate the possibility of corporate or political influence on the composition and decision-making by the Supreme Judicial Council, which could arise in the current election of the parliamentary quota by a simple majority. In this way, a recommendation from the European Commission on democracy through law (the Venice Commission) is implemented that the Supreme Judicial Council should be depoliticised as an authority, ensuring that the quota reflects the distribution of political forces in parliament and that the majority in parliament will not fill all the numbers with its candidates. 3. Article 6 shall be repealed. 131 of the Constitution, which enables the decision-making procedure of the Colleges and the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council to be settled at the legal level. The cancellation is in response to a recommendation from the Venice Commission on publicity and transparency in their work. 4. With § 7 (Art. 132a, para. 6 a new sentence second) increases the effectiveness of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council by establishing mechanisms for preventing conflict of interest and improper external influence in the judicial authorities. The powers of the Inspectorate to carry out integrity checks and conflicts of interest of judges, prosecutors and investigators, their property declarations, and to establish actions which undermine the prestige of the judiciary and those relating to the violation of the independence of judges, prosecutors and investigators shall be extended. 5. With § 8 (Art. 150, para. 4) The Supreme Council of Law shall be included in the circle of bodies which may refer to the Constitutional Court when the rights and freedoms of citizens are violated by law. 6. § 9, 10 and 11 provides that the elected members of the Supreme Judicial Council, at the date of entry into force of the Fifth Amendment, are to complete their term of office. It is proposed that within three months of the entry into force of the amendment the laws relating to the application of art. Art. 130a. 130b, within one month of their entry into force, the Supreme Judicial Council shall allocate the members of the Council elected by the National Assembly to the Judgement and Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council. If the Supreme Judicial Council does not distribute the members elected by the National Assembly in the College of Judges and Prosecutors, the National Assembly shall distribute them by decision. Before the vote, the people's representative Atanas Atanasov said he would not support the bill because of what was adopted in art. 130a, para. 3 and 4 ratio of the members of the judge's and prosecutor's college, as provided for in § 11, para. 1 distribution by the Supreme Judicial Council in the judge's and prosecutor's college of members of the Council elected by the National Assembly and the transfer of the management of real estate by the Minister of Justice to the Supreme Judicial Council. During the 11-vote vote, without a vote, the committee for discussion of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria on a third vote. THE LAW OF THE amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., D.V., No. ...) § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 84, p. 16 A sentence is created second: The National Assembly may hear and adopt other reports of the Prosecutor General on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office on the implementation of the law, the fight against crime and the realization of criminal policy. § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 129 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words of the judge, respectively the prosecutor's college is added. 2. In para. 2 sentence first after the words 3. In para. 3 in the text before t. 1 after the words "with a decision of the Sejdiyski, respectively the Prosecutor's College of the Sejm. § 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 130 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 After the words the National Assembly is added by a majority of two thirds of the Members of the National Assembly and a sentence is created second: the Members of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be elected under the terms of art. 130a, para. 3 and 4 and in order laid down by law. 2. Allinei 5, 6 and 7 are canceled. § 4. A new article is being created. Art. 130a. 130b: Art. 130a. (1) The Supreme Judicial Council shall exercise its powers by means of a plenary, judge's and prosecutor's college. (2) The Plenum shall be composed of all members of the Supreme Judicial Council. The Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council: 1. adopt the draft budget of the judiciary; 2. adopt a decision to terminate the term of office of an elected member of the Supreme Judicial Council under the conditions of art. 130, ) (a.k.a. 8; 3. organise the qualification of judges, prosecutors and investigators; 4. solves organisational issues common to the judiciary; 5. hear and accept annual reports under art. 84, p. 16; 6. manage the real estate of the judiciary; 7. propose to the President of the Republic the appointment and release of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Prosecutor General; 8. implements other powers defined by law. (3) The College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council shall consist of 14 members and shall include the Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation and of the Supreme Administrative Court, six members elected directly by the Judges, and six members elected by the National Assembly. (4) The Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall consist of 11 members and shall include the Prosecutor General, four members elected directly by prosecutors, one member elected directly by investigators, and five members elected by the National Assembly. (5) Colleges in accordance with their professional direction: 1. appoint, promote, relocate and dismiss judges, prosecutors and investigators; 2. make periodic attestations to the judges, prosecutors, investigators and administrative directors of the judicial authorities and resolve issues of acquisition and restoration of irrevocability; 3. impose disciplinary penalties on the reduction and dismissal of judges, prosecutors, investigators and administrative directors of the judicial authorities; 4. appoint and dismiss the administrative directors of the judicial authorities; 5. resolve issues about the organisation of the activities of the relevant system of judicial authorities; 6. implement other powers defined by law. Art. 130b. (1) The plenary meetings of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be chaired by the Minister of Justice. He is not taking part in the vote. (2) The College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be chaired by the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. The Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be chaired by the Prosecutor General. The Minister of Justice may attend the meetings without taking part in the vote. (3) The Chief Inspector may attend the plenary meetings of the Supreme Judicial Council and the meetings of the Judge and Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council and shall not participate in the vote. § 5. The current article. Art. 130a becomes art. 130c and the following amendments shall be made to it: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 words for discussion shall be deleted. 2. Point 2 is repealed. § 6. Article 131 is repealed. § 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 132a, para. 6 A new sentence is created second: The Inspector shall carry out checks on integrity and conflict of interests of judges, prosecutors and investigators, on their property declarations, and on the establishment of actions affecting the prestige of the judiciary, and those relating to violation of the independence of judges, prosecutors and investigators. § 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 150 is created. 4. The Supreme Council of Laws may refer to the Constitutional Court with a request for the establishment of an unconstitutionality of a law which violates citizens' rights and freedoms. Transitional and final provisions § 9. The National Assembly shall, within three months of the entry into force of this Law, adopt the laws relating to the application of art. Art. 130a. 130b. § 10. The elected members of the Supreme Judicial Council at the date of the entry into force of this law shall complete their term of office. § 11. (1) Within one month of the entry into force of the laws relating to the application of art. Art. 130a. 130b, the Supreme Judicial Council shall distribute the members of the Council elected by the National Assembly to the College of Judges and Prosecutors of the Supreme Judicial Council. (2) In case within the term under para. 1 The Supreme Judicial Council did not distribute the members elected by the National Assembly in the judge's and prosecutor's college, the National Assembly distributed them with a decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u15	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. There will be a roll-call vote coming from place after calling in alphabetical order the names of the Members of the National Assembly and a clear statement from place of vote of the Members of the National Assembly. The possible answers are:............................................. and abstention......................................................... Aidoan Mutalib Ali - for Ayhan Ahmed Etem - for Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - for Alexander Hristov Metodiev - for Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - for Altimir Emilov Adamov - for Ana Georgieva Barakova - for Angel Petrov Naydenov - against Anna Vasileva Alexandrova Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - for Antony Antonyev Trenchev - for Atanas Zafirov - against Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - for Atanas Petrov Atanasov... - absent
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u16	I don't vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u17	There's a pro-op, abstention or absentee. I'm counting you as absent. [[Noise, laughter and applause.]] Colleagues, order in the court! Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - for Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - against Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov Boyka Grozeva Marinska - for Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - for Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - for Borislav Mihailov Borisov - for Borislav Raychov Milanov - for Borislav Sabinov Iglev - for Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - for Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - for Valentin Ivanov Radev - for Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - for Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - for Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - against Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - for Vasil Milanov Antonov - against Velizar Penkov Enchev - against Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - for Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - for Vili Mladenov Lilkov - absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - for Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - for Volen Nikolov Siderov - for [[Sighs: "Eeeee! " and applause.]] Galya Eneva Zaharieva - for Galya Simeonova Georgieva - for Georg Danielov Georgiev - for Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - for Georgi Ivanov Andonov - for Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - for Georgi Nikolov Nedev - for Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - against Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - against Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - against Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - against Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - against Georgi Yanchev Gokov - against Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Güney Hewesmen Hughesmen - for Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - for Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - for Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - for Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - for Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - for Delyan Slavchev Peevski - for Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - for Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - for Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - for == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - for Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - for Diana Ivanova Yordanova - for Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreyev Delchev - for Dimitar Boychev Petrov - for Dimitar Borisov Glavchev - for Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - for Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - for Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - for Dimitar Krumov Tanev - for Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - for Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - against Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - against Dimitar Tanev Tanev - for Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - for Dobrin Nenov Danev - against Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - for Doncho Spasov Baxanov - for Dora Ilieva Yankova - against Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - for Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - for Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - for Evgenia Danielova Angelova - for Emil Dimitrov Raynov - against Emil Dimitrov montone... - for
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u18	To Bulgaria!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u19	And the Constitution! Erjan Sebaitin Ebatin - for Erdinch Ismail Hajrula - for Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - against Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - for Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - against Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - for Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - for Ivan Penkov Ivanov - for Ivan Slavov Ivanov - for Ivan Stefanov Valkov - for Ivan Stoev Cholakov - for Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - for Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - against Ilian Sashov Todorov - for Iliya Yankov Iliev Irena Ivanova Kotseva - for Irena Lyubenova Sokolova - for Sincerely Vasilev Veselinov - for Yordan Georgiev Andonov - for Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - for Kalina Petrova Balabanova - for Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - for Katya Nikolaeva Popova - for Cyril Boyanov Kalfin - for Cyril Dobrev Dobrev - for Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - for Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - against Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - for Korman Yakubov Ismailov - abstention Cornelia Petrova Ninova - against Kostadin Ivanov Markov - for Krasen Georgiev Krastev - for Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - for Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - for Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - for Krasimir Petrov Petrov - for Krasimir Hristov Yankov - against Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - for Christian Ivanov Vigenin - against Kancho Yanev Filipov - for Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - for Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - for Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - for Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - for Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - for Manol Trifonov Genov - against Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - for Mariana Georgieva Todorova - for Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - against Maria Shtereva Belova - for Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u20	I refuse to participate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u21	Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - for Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - for Method Borisov Andreev - for Mehmed Umer Ataman Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - for Milen Vassilev Mihov - for Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - for Mithat Sabri Metin - for Mihail Parashkev Todorov - for Mihail Raykov Mikov - against Miho Dimitrov Mihov - for Musa Cemal Palev - for Mustafa Sally Karadayi - for Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - for Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - for Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - for == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Nelly Ruskova Petrova - for Neno Hristov Vlaikov - for Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - for Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - for Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - for Petar Vladislavov Slavov... - absent
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u22	Here. I refuse to participate. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u23	Petar Georgiev Kadiev - for Petar Georgiev Kanev - against Petar Ivanov Petrov - for Petar Kostadinov Petrov - for Petar Pandushev Chobanov - for Petar Hristov Bekov Petar Hristov Petrov - for Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - for Plamen Veselinov Yordanov Plamen Dulchev Nunev - for Plamen Ivanov Manushev - for Plamen Tachev Petrov - for Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - for Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - against Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - for Ramadan Bajram Atali - for Rosen Petrov Petrov - for Rumen Vasilev Gechev - against Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - for Rumen Dinev Zhelev - for Rumen Ivanov Ivanov - for Rumen Marinov Yonchev - for Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - for Ruchen Mehmet Riza - for Saliha Hakif Emin - for Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - against Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - for Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - for Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - for Svilen Filipov Ivanov - for Semir Hussein Abu Melih - for Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - for Slavi Penchev Binev - for Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - for Snezana Georgieva Dukova - for Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - for Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - for Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - for Stefan Georgiev Kenov - for Stefan Ivanov Dedev - for Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Stynov Zhelev - for Stefani Mihneva Mihailova - for Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - against Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - for Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - against Teodora Radkova Georgieva - for Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - for Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - for Filip Stefanov Popov - Against Hamid Barry Hamid - for Hassan Ahmed Ademov Hristian Radev Mitev - for Hristo Georgiev Gajev - for Hristo Georgiev Todorov - for Hristo Grudev Grudev - for Hüseyin Hassan Hafuzov - for Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva - for Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - for Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - for Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - for [[Applause from GERB.]] Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - against Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - for Chetin Hussein Kazak - for Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - for Julian Krastev Angelov - for Yavor Bozhilov Notev Yavor Iliev Haytov - for Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - against Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - for Some colleagues further entered the Chamber: Dimitar Gorov against; Dragomir Stoynev against; Kiril Dobrev against. Colleagues, a few minutes until we announce the result. Colleagues, from the management, we suggest that if there are negative votes from fellow Members who voted against it and who are entitled to three negative votes, they should take the floor now so that we can accurately and correctly calculate the result. First negative vote Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, second negative vote Mr. Velizar Enchev, third negative vote Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u24	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against the constitutional changes made because they are not intended to reduce the politically dictated judicial acts or the purchased ones. They must give the impression in Bulgarian citizens and in the European Commission that something is being done to reform the judiciary. The vote on these changes revealed the contradictions between two influential groups related to governance in their quest to redistribute political and economic power through the judiciary. In this clash, GERB, DPS and the chief prosecutor over the Reformation bloc, the Minister of Justice and some of the judges prevailed. These were the first constitutional changes initiated by GERB and the Reformation Bloc, but adopted with the crucial and decisive participation of the DPS, supported by the other parliamentary groups, with the exception of the BSP. I voted against it also because of the transfer of the powers of the Minister of Justice for the management of the real estate of the judiciary to the Judicial Council. This reduces personal responsibility and further undermines the minister's role in relation to the judiciary. Now you, who have adopted these changes, are fully responsible for subsequent legislative management actions that will improve the judiciary. You must convince the Bulgarian magistrates that they are expected to have independent and fair justice, and the Bulgarian citizens that it is done in their name and in the name of the rule of law. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u25	Second negative line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u26	I voted against it, as I take into account the Constitutional Court's judgment No 3 of 2003, read by the then spokesperson Mr. Vasil Gotsev of the right-hand side of the Chamber, which reads: "Every change in the structure of many institutions is one of them, but in the first place is the Supreme Judicial Council is a change in the form of government, which means that this constitutional change can only be made by a Grand National Assembly. You, with this whole procedure that you started a few months ago, basically trampled the Constitution. But anyway, this isn't the first case of the Constitution being trampled. I ask myself: why, after this interpretive decision of the Constitutional Court of 2003, supported several times by the former Prosecutor General Mr. Filchev, by such constitutionalists as the former constitutional judge Mr. Gotsev, as Mr. Professor. Gemini and other Bulgarian lawyers who believe that such changes are yes, and I really believe that they are necessary in the higher judiciary, as it is eaten by corruption, but this corruption is a mirror image of the political system. As are the politicians we are, so are the Bulgarian judges and prosecutors. And let's not throw on them all the responsibility for this rotten justice system. So with today's vote, you have essentially voted anti-constitutionally! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u27	Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against it not because we are against judicial reform, but there is hardly anyone in this room who is against it. We voted against it, because with this mimicry that you have made in the form of amendment of the Constitution, you do not achieve those expectations of society relating to a quick, fair trial and an irreversible punishment of criminals. On the contrary, you're just squeezing the situation right now. With what we voted on today, we have once again shown that Parliament does not meet the expectations of society, once again we have shown that the majority in this Parliament does not defend the ordinary citizen, once again we have shown that there is an opposition party in this Parliament and it is called the Bulgarian Socialist Party! Because the masks have fallen and you can see who is ruling Bulgaria against the interests of the people. I voted against it because what you are doing right now is destroying the state's foundations, destroying the people's trust in parliament, and there is very little left of the state to risk it! [[Applause from BSP LB. National Representative Georgi Kadiev wants the floor and heads to the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u29	Mr. Kadyev, there is no possibility of a negative vote. Procedure? If it is not in the manner of conduct and is not relevant to the procedure, I will take your word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u30	Honourable Members, I would like a re-vote due to the fact that some of the colleagues from the Reformation Block voted in a way that is not allowed. The allowed ways are for............. and abstention......................................................................................... There were colleagues who said that they were absent when they got out of place, and there was a colleague who said, "Here." Tell me what it means here. What you're doing, be a bit of a man! This is the Constitution of GERB and DPS. Vote against her, and don't call us here, don't call us here, because when the DPS told us six months ago: You are no longer there, even if you have ministers! And this Constitution protects their rights! I therefore call on everyone at the next vote to vote against the Constitution because it puts an umbrella on the real changes. Real changes are not what we accepted today. Revoting request!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u31	Mr. Kadiev, your request is inadmissible, as we have timely procedural rules on which three readings are discussed and voted on the Constitution. A valid vote has been held. We heard the three negative votes. I am about to announce the result: votes voted for the Parliamentary Assembly of 189 [[Applause from GERB and DPS]] .... 39, 1 abstains. The bill amending and supplementing the Constitution has been adopted. The Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is adopted in the third vote! [[Applause from GERB and DPS.]] On behalf of the parliamentary groups, are there any who wish to make statements? Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u32	Dear Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Your Excellencies and Guests, who are present today in the vote on the changes in the Bulgarian Constitution! Two thousand and fifteen years will remain historic for our country because it has given a very clear sign of the political will, which has been declared by all parliamentary groups for the need for judicial reform. Of course, there had to be a very well-built consistency and to look for exactly this political consensus with which we can take into account today that in 2015 there was a change of the Bulgarian Constitution, which gives greater independence to the judiciary and amendments are tabled, which just a year or two ago, were unthinkable for the Bulgarian Parliament. In January 2015, the first step was taken.. The Strategy for Judicial Reform was adopted. I would like to thank you for the efforts made by Minister Hristo Ivanov because, you know, there was a very serious debate at the time and we needed broad parliamentary support. Even when 173 votes were raised in order to adopt the judicial strategy, I would like to quote what Hristo Ivanov said then: "We want the support of as many parties as possible. Dear friends, today we have done just that.. all parliamentary parties have expressed their principled position. Even a different opinion from the one we have achieved today is also part of the success we have achieved today. I have always said that Parliament should be the place where everyone can express their political affiliation, have their political identity and declare their principled position when legislative changes are voted on. Here I would like to express a clear disagreement with those who turn Parliament into a laboratory experiment and a rhetorical way of speaking, which is absent from what everyone publicly says they will do in today's parliament. When you want to vote for or against, you have the right to do so, but not to be part of some laboratory experiments that we observe by some people who are launching in the public domain. It is very important what we did in July 2015. I would like to thank the Reformation Bloc and one of the co-chairs, Radan Kanev, who took extremely important steps in his talks with Lutvi Mestan, the Chairman of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. These talks led to the fact that we were able to gather 180 votes to support the constitutional changes tabled in the Bulgarian Parliament. I can't understand why everyone's good, and today we're saying who's bad and who's good. I believe that what we achieved in July, so that we can actually bring these legislative changes forward, has enabled us to start working much more seriously. I would like to thank the Commission, who worked under all these Rules of Procedure, which were adopted by the Bulgarian Parliament, so that it could really be in dialogue with all Bulgarian institutions, without exception. "With NGOs, all those who are experts in the field of the Constitution were part of this process and I would like to thank them warmly. The month of September 2015 was historic because no one thought there could be more than 180 votes. Here I would especially like to thank everyone who gave their vote because this outlined the real perspective for deepening the constructive dialogue reached on 9 December, when BSP left Bulgaria and included in the amendment of the Constitution, for which I thank them. Today, they have expressed their position strongly, but I would like to thank them, because they are also part of the process that is just beginning, because the most important steps are the Law on the Judiciary and all the additional legislative changes that need to be made. What we have done today is indeed a new beginning and a new start for the judicial reform that everyone has been talking about all these years since the adoption of the Constitution by the Grand National Assembly. What is extremely important for me and the parliamentary group of GERB is that today, together with the colleagues who cast their votes for the European Parliament, we allow the judges to elect their Heads of Justice. It is the judges who can be more independent with the College. I believe that we must be a guarantor of the new legislative changes that will be adopted in the coming months. Why is that important? Because the creation of two colleges is something that was also declared by the Venice Commission. What we have done and what was unthinkable in the initial stage of the talks and the debates that were being held to issue the secret vote, you know that this was also a recommendation from the Venice Commission, we have made it possible to actually give the beginning and the basis of these legislative changes, which I am convinced will unite us, but not to divide us. Forty-third parliament is quite different from the forty-one, forty-two from the moment the political party GERB participates in the parliamentary life of the country. I believe that everyone who expresses his opinion should be sufficiently well argued. As for today's governance and the coalition agreement that we have with the Reformation bloc, I would like to thank those who supported today's legislative changes. Colleagues and friends of the Reformation Block, GERB needs a strong partner! GERB does not need a complex partner to raise voltage degrees and to think that this is the right way for strong and united Bulgaria, which is part of a strong and united Europe! [[Applause from GERB.]] I also respect the different opinion, but GERB and the Reformation bloc must be strong partners who, together with the rest of the parliamentary support, for which I would especially like to thank the Patriotic Front and the ABB, give us the opportunity to make policies, and today, more than ever, our country needs what the whole of Europe relies on for all the countries of the European Union. Of course, when we talk about what needs to be achieved, I would like to make it clear that the debate on what judicial reform we need should be led precisely by the Bulgarian Parliament, but in partnership with all the institutions and, most importantly, the non-governmental sector should also be included in this dialogue. I am convinced that what we have done today and what political formations have also done and parliamentary groups from DPS, BSP left Bulgaria, Ataka, BBC this is the parliament and these are the parliamentary groups represented by the Bulgarian voters to represent the forty-third parliament. Just a month and a half ago, Bulgarian voters gave very strong and clear support to the political party GERB and to all parties that participated in the local elections. I do not know why we should do experiments to be tested as we MPs, above all, to test the Bulgarian voters and to make messages for early parliamentary elections. Today's governance is without alternative and everyone who says that they should resign and that a new Council of Ministers between the Reformation Bloc and GERB should be chosen, this is an untenable thesis, colleagues from the Reformation Block! We must actually have a constructive dialogue, but it must be held equally and each one must respect different opinions. I wish success to all MPs who will actively participate in subsequent legislative actions so that we can actually implement judicial reform in a form adopted by society and meets the expectations of the greatest pessimists! I would like to address Mr. Hristo Ivanov and tell him: Mr. Minister, you received the support from the GERB Parliamentary Group, you received the support from all MPs in the Bulgarian Parliament and that someone had a different opinion in no way makes him deconstructive in the dialogue that we should have. You can rely on the principled positions that have the political party GERB and the parliamentary group of GERB. If you want to be part of this process, do not hesitate, continue to be part of it! Thank you. [[Applause GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u33	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP left Bulgaria
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u34	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! The Bulgarian Socialist Party did not support today's amendments to the Constitution. These changes were planned in advance as early as January 21st of this year, when it was discussed in the Chamber Strategy for a continuing reform of the judiciary. We supported this Strategy, led by the best intentions for necessary reform, but then we clearly warned that self-target changes to the Constitution, which are very often done under the dictation of some or other groups, of some prosecutorial, judicial factions, will not result in any particular result. The majority, which today adopted these constitutional changes, has chosen the other path to compromise with everything and with everyone. The path of compromise to put together this impressive number of votes, but this time will in no way improve the functioning of the judiciary system. At second reading, we supported the balanced formation of quotas in the judiciary, but at the same time we continue to be extremely pessimistic in terms of the division of the Supreme Judicial Council. Once again, I will say that this will lead to encapsulation, closure within the system, closure and from public problems, closure and from the problems that citizens are putting in front of us every day in the reception halls when we meet in the constituencies. I definitely believe that an attestation of what has happened is today's absurd protests before the Court of Justice. When those who should be law enforcement go to the Court of Justice to protest legislative decisions. This is a situation where there can be no peace and stability in the judiciary. Obviously, interests are not covered by promises. The voting deals have cancelled what has been promised to various groups and groups within the judiciary system. I definitely believe that the position put forward in the Strategy for Continuing Reform and now included in the report is wrong to address the problem. Disfunction of the Constitution is not, ladies and gentlemen, there is no dysfunction in the Constitution and there is no dysfunction in the Constitution, and this will be proved when these changes adopted by such a large majority, see that they do not give the necessary results. Disfunction is found in organs and characters. It is unlikely that the resigning minister should give me an answer, but how is it possible that the Supreme Judicial Council, the Supreme Court of Cassation, and this year, will not fulfil its constitutional obligations to present its annual reports by 31 May to the National Assembly?! A moment ago, before the meeting, I met at the couloirs representing the Supreme Judicial Council and other members and asked: Why do you not fulfill your constitutional duty.............................you are a whole body, or colleagues, that does not matter? Why didn't you submit the report of the Supreme Judicial Council to the National Assembly this year? Why did you, Madam President, not take an interest in how the Constitution and the Law were not respected? Why did the newly elected President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, who otherwise holds very emotional speeches about the role of politicians and MPs, not find time to present his report to the Supreme Judicial Council and from there to the National Assembly? I believe that these are questions that all MPs and those who supported these changes must ask themselves, and those who voted against it, because without the implementation of the Constitution and the laws, any changes in them are pointless. Without a clear understanding of the rule of law as a uniform application, implementation by those who are obliged, it is impossible to have a rule of law. Dear MPs, another legislative change in the basic law is passing, related to some hopes, inspired by suggestions, hopes, inspired by excuses for unfinished work. You know that in Bulgaria it is accepted that when someone does not do their job, to justify the imperfections of the law in the case of the imperfections of the Constitution. I think that the National Assembly, following this change, should very seriously discuss where it is in its responsibilities and in its authority, because here the other means the risk that everyone who does not do their job, everyone who believes that there is a way to justify the bad law.. constantly and constantly pour out the problems in the National Assembly, and it is to race over the foreign responsibilities and to pour on themselves the responsibility of others. We voted against it because we believe that the administration of the judiciary system will not be more independent than this. It will be dependent on the internal groups in the judiciary, on the groups that will be closed even more for public supervision, which, otherwise as a function, is assigned to the National Assembly through the parliamentary quota. It should be considered very carefully when the National Assembly broadcasts the representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council next time, whether they should not be people unrelated to the judiciary, because it cannot exist alone and alone. Unrelated to the judiciary, because the judiciary receives a budget from taxpayers to function in the name of taxpayers, rather than its own understanding of self-sufficientness, which has also been realised in these constitutional changes. Dear Members of Parliament, I believe that the processes will continue and this constitutional change will not be able to stop them without realizing that healthy interaction between the authorities, between the National Assembly as a legislative authority, the Supreme Judicial Council as a representative of the judiciary, the Council of Ministers, where the Minister also has his functions, the executive power will get nothing. Nothing will come from the celebration or discontent of one group or another in the judiciary. Dear Members of Parliament, we have also not supported because of the constant suggestion of the so-called European or international models, for the so-called recommendations of the Venice Commission. Dear MPs, in Germany, the Minister of Justice is proposing senior judges for appointment and no one is saying that the German system is dependent on the executive power. In Bulgaria we are constantly moving quotas, choosing them by two thirds and in the citizens there is still the feeling that this power is dependent. We will continue to be consistent, as we were on 21 January in the first vote, in the second vote, where, with clear reasons, we supported some of the changes made, and today, when we voted against. We will be consistent because citizens want another.. not theatrical presentation of changes in one law or another, it was he and the Bulgarian Constitution, not justification for the imperfection of the laws. The citizens of Bulgaria want another. They want to stop the uniform application of the Law, which can often be seen in courtrooms and judgments. The citizens of Bulgaria want to ease access to justice because right-wing policy also means less access to justice, including judicial fees and costs for qualified legal aid. Citizens want quick justice, because average is fast... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President. Average is fast, but in certain cases, which can very clearly be seen from the work of the Inspectorate, it is slow because of the characters who will suffer from justice. Citizens want a clear career development of magistrates, and the magistrates themselves want it according to objective criteria, written in law and universally applied by the authorities that are taking care of it. We from BSP left Bulgaria will continue to stand behind what citizens want in their legislative activity, in their parliamentary control and in our clear positions of left Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u35	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the Chairman of the Group Mr Lutvi Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will leave without comment the strange claims of the candidates for self-target parliamentary glory that the amendments adopted at third reading in the Constitution are of the DPS and GERB, that the DPS has succeeded in fulfilling its goal to remove reformers from power. We don't need hyperbolization of our power, because we have as much power as the voter has given us. And if we really look strong in your eyes, there's only one reason why. Our strength emerges from our ideological definition. We are consistent enough in defending the political positions, because of which we have growing confidence of the Bulgarian voters. [[Voice: "Ha-ha-ha!"]] Unlike others, whose vote in the last local elections really deserves a "ha-ha" you just heard. [[(Radio.) Laughter. Claps by DPS.)]] It's like a lyrical deviation. Ladies and gentlemen, the assessment of the amendments that have just been adopted in the Bulgarian Constitution should be a function of the answer to the question: what did he accept and what could the Forty-third National Assembly accept in view of the restrictions imposed by the founder of the 7th Grand National Assembly? That's the fundamental question. Our thesis is that the forty-third National Assembly accepted the possible, which it could accept, given the limitations of the Constitution. Alternative proposals stand beyond what the Constitution defines as the explicit power of the Grand National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's name things by their real names. I will also address the Minister of Justice. I hear your voice, I hear the voice of the protesting judges. They say something very simple: we want true independence of the Court, the judge and claim that with these amendments, with this allocation of parliamentary and magistrate quota in the College of Judges magistrates this independence is not guaranteed and therefore the proposal of Minister Hristo Ivanov, presented by Democrats for strong Bulgaria should have been accepted. What did we take? It's a 8:6 ratio. There's a majority of magistrates. This argument is challenged by the judges with the firm thesis that the two heads of the SAC and of the VCC, who participate in this college by law, should not be counted in determining the ratio and therefore we have six directly elected members of the VCC and six of the parliamentary quota, which does not ensure the independence of the Court of Justice. That's the point, isn't it, Minister? [[Replicate from Minister Hristo Ivanov.]] I understand this thesis. However, I ask: will you apply the same principle to the College of Prosecutors and Investigators? You're going to say, "No, you're not." I heard your voice: no, I hear it every day on the street because you say, Mr. Minister, there are different standards for device, inalienability, independence of judges and prosecutors. Yes, the standards in Europe are different given their different functionality in the process. We've talked about this a lot. With this understanding I also began my speech at first reading, and my speech at second reading, with this I begin my speech at third reading. Only who sets the standards and who has the right to change them? There is no universal European standards, there is no directive. The standards are set by the founder. He has aligned the status of judges, prosecutors and investigators with regard to their immunity, independence and inalienability, regardless of their different functionality. The same founder said that the change in their status has an absolutely direct bearing on the principle of separation of authorities and the rule of law and that it cannot normally change this status. If you had accepted your proposal for a ratio at the College of Judges 8:5, 6:6 in the Prosecutor's Office and agreed with your approach that you should not count the administrative leaders, we would have a ratio at the College of Judges 6:5, in favor of the judges and 5:6 in the Prosecutor's College, in favour of the parliamentary quota. This means direct parliamentary control of the magistrates prosecutors, which is a direct violation of the principle of independence of the judiciary. We are not the ones who placed the prosecution and the prosecution as an absolutely equal part in terms of their status in the judiciary. Is it legitimate that your thesis that it should be reestablished should change the place of the prosecution that it should be subjected to direct parliamentary control because this was the aim of the proposal? I think that's debatable. You can argue with that. We are even ready to participate in such a conversation, but it is not of the competence of an ordinary National Assembly. And if you claim that this objective is good and therefore should be pursued by any means, even by unconstitutional means, here I will no longer agree with you, because the objective is justified by the means, even when they are unconstitutional, is Bolshevism, direct expression of Bolshevism as a way of thinking, which in this particular case manifests itself in its Bulgarian, right-wing version as a reflex, which we have witnessed. The very fact that after your proposal for the ratio did not pass, then you resigned, and colleagues from the DSB left, means that their goal was not the judicial reform or constitutional change in its integrity. Party selfishness targets certain individuals in order to personalize parts of the judiciary. Figuratively speaking, you intended to have your Philchev, but not the one that happened, but the one you imagined or had planned a laboratory 15 years ago or more, 19 years ago, if memory serves me right. From the point of view of what the founder allows the ordinary National Assembly, we have achieved the possible. Denial of today's achievement is a manifestation of national nihilism that will damage the image of Bulgaria. That's all that matters. [[The President signals that time has run out]] Which I'd like to finish with. And lastly, Madam President. If anyone wants deeper reforms, including the judges, we must see the elementary truth that the synonym of radical reforms is called the establishment of a new Grand National Assembly so that we can unfold our political will without the restrictions that have been imposed on us. The other is mantras, spells. Today, the 43rd National Assembly has done its job. It's the law of procedure and the law of the judiciary. There is the true competence of a minister. I ask: in a year and a half, what have you offered us as amendments to the Law on the Judiciary and the Rules of Procedure? What reforming do we have for a year and a half? A big nothing! This is what needs to be filled by the new Minister of Justice. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u37	Are there requests from other parliamentary groups? Professor Borisov, on behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u38	Madam President, honourable Members! I read the ABB declaration on the occasion of the adoption of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The political party ABB was absolutely convinced and is still convinced of the need for reform of the judiciary. Even at the adoption by the National Assembly of the updated strategy in January this year, the ABB said it supports it with the insistence of a subsequent serious and thorough debate to analyse what has been achieved and to identify specific legislative measures. The ABB first organised a meeting in the National Assembly, where we invited all authorities. The representatives of the two Supreme Courts, the Prosecutor General, representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Minister of Justice, members of the National Assembly Legal Commission, representatives of almost all parties and academic community were present. At this meeting, we presented the Draft Law amending the Law on the Judicial Government. The establishment of an advisory body on judicial reform of the National Assembly was proposed to include representatives of the three authorities and academics. The draft of the Law presented by us was then supported in practice by everyone, but, unfortunately, this remained only in words. What I have said so far gives me reason to strongly reject all accusations of any kind that ABB actually opposed judicial reform and, you see, we only seem to be defending it. From the very beginning of the debate, the ABB was the most consistent of all parties in its stand-in views on how this reform should be implemented. Moreover, the ABB was highly active in carrying out its views. In fact, the ABB was the first to propose the majority of the changes that are now at the heart of the constitutional changes: the division of the SJC into colleges, the functions of the different colleges, the direct election of the members and so on. Moreover, all of our proposals that we made and which were then adopted are fully in line with the recommendations made in the European Commission's latest monitoring report. And one more important thing: ABB proposed these changes in a way that could have been implemented even without making changes to the Constitution, but only through amendments to the Law on the Judiciary. They would be adopted very quickly and could proceed to the next measures. As a result of the failure to accept this approach, however, a whole year has been wasted in meaningless and fruitless debates. Perhaps the resignation of the Minister of Justice, as well as the statements by the representatives of some political forces in recent days, give us an answer to the question why this happened. For us, this answer is as follows: in fact, the main objective of the judicial reform leaders was not its quality improvement, but the political control of the judiciary, especially the prosecution. ABB categorically states: no re-lititization in the judicial system! ABB hopes that the new minister will change the approach to judicial reform, as so far it has been reversed and the wrong approach. Instead of going from analysis to drawing up an action plan, amendments to the Constitution, which do not know if tomorrow will not prove to be... or at least to be assessed as insufficient or not working, and even by some people as wrong. The ABB believes that the amendments to the Constitution are now a first step in judicial reform, but expresses some doubt that they will lead to a substantial improvement in the work and functioning of the judiciary or to a faster, fairer and more effective trial, while continuing to defend the view that the reform debate cannot exclude those who will have to carry it out, and that all the capacity of the professional and scientific field in this direction should be used. We therefore renew our proposal to all parliamentary represented political forces, to the executive and judiciary for the establishment of the Judicial Reform Council of the National Assembly. We call for support for the establishment of this advisory body, which will become a forum where the three authorities will make an appropriate analysis of the current situation and will discuss and adopt a specific action plan with the necessary legal changes, the relevant institutions, deadlines and funding... a plan for a real and deep judicial reform that we all need. Good luck with the judicial reform! Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from ABB and single applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u39	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Colleagues from other parliamentary groups? Mrs Kovachka has the floor on behalf of the BDZ Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u40	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, congratulate you on the overall success of our Parliament: the adoption of amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria on the judiciary! The approval of these changes by a decisive majority in parliament, from a large part of the political spectrum, shows not only the high responsibility of the political elite, the achievement of political and expert consensus in preparing the amendments to the Constitution, but also something particularly important... this majority of consent reflects precisely and the public attitudes for strengthening our judiciary through legislative changes! The key to success doesn't work if you don't put it in the right lock. I think we all managed to do that. The Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center was one of the importers of the proposal for amendments to the Constitution. We did it with understanding and the desire to make the judiciary more effective, more independent and fair, and thus to modernise not only the judiciary but also public relations and our country as a whole. Today, we have put our signatures on approval under the final amendments to the Constitution, and we believe that the most important of them the division of the Supreme Judicial Council of two colleges, the allocation of quotas for them in favour of the professional college, the parliamentary quota to be elected by two thirds of all MPs, as well as the hearing by the National Assembly of the Prosecutor General's report, are undoubtedly an important step towards the overall strengthening and recovery of our judicial system in the direction of more independence and transparency. We all understand that this is a first step towards real and effective reform and that there is a long way to go of changes in judicial laws in order to build a new and fairer judicial system. No less complicated and long will be the path of moral recovery in the judiciary so that we can all safely confirm: yes, no one is above the law. The role in this process of interaction of a truly independent judiciary with the other state authorities cannot be underestimated here. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The events over the past few months, which have had a serious impact on the entire political process in Europe, namely the armed conflicts that are going on near our borders, the terrorist attacks and the unremembered migration wave on our continent, demonstrate the vulnerability of our modern societies and the need to strengthen the stability of our country. This stability is impossible without the first condition for it "political stability." That is why our position for permanent support for the important reforms carried out in Bulgaria on the path of reaching agreement and compromises in Parliament is inseparable from the stability of parliament. The two processes are linked, and we believe that their separation can lead to their overall weakening and destruction. We need to find and strengthen the common agreement between parties in the name of the state so that this can become the leading for all of us and the relationship of reforms - stability - cannot be torn apart. Good luck to you all! And let us remember that he nevertheless depends on our preparation for him. Thank you. [[Applause from the BBC and single applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u41	The word wants Mr. Hristo Ivanov, Minister of Justice in Retire.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, as a resigning minister, I did not plan to ask for the floor, but Mr. Mestan told me, addressed me almost all his speech. I think it is important to say a few words about the arguments he has put forward. He's not here, but at least let them stay on the record. First of all, there is no dispute, and here it should be stressed that the amendments adopted today, in their vast majority, are a success. In their vast part, they are a positive step which will allow from now on with subsequent changes to the Law on the Judiciary and in subsequent evolution in the practice of its implementation to make very important changes to the way the judicial authorities work, which will improve and achieve precisely those objectives for which you have spoken confidence, speed, security. Of course, this is a fact that should in no way be clouded. Mr. Mestan justified his argument from the starting point that, you see, the independence of the court was a matter of different interpretations in the various systems in Europe. This is not a question of interpretation! The independence of the court is absolutely at the heart of the European civilization as we know it and we should want to continue it, especially if we insist on having a clear liberal profile. This is the cornerstone of the entire European civilization. This cornerstone, unfortunately, in the allocation of quotas was rejected by parliament, but he will return and take his place in the corner, in the head of the corner, as the Gospel says. I'm sure that's inevitable. Mr. Mestan refers to Decision No 3 of 2003 to build his argument that normally the National Assembly could not distinguish on the basis of functional differences in the treatment of prosecutors and courts. But he conveniently and always in his presentation forgets a subsequent decision. Mr. Mestan, thank you for coming back. You are forgetting a subsequent decision of the Constitutional Court "Decision No 8 of 2005, where the Constitutional Court explicitly states, I quote by memory: "Although the court, prosecution and prosecution have been assigned as part of the judiciary, they are not and cannot be equaled. The main winner of the independence of the judiciary is the court. The decision provides sufficient arguments for differences in their treatment to be made. ............................................... Mr. Mestan refers to Decision No 3 of 2003 in order to build his argument that a simple folk assembly could not distinguish on the basis of functional differences in treatment between the prosecution and the court, but he conveniently and always forgets in his exhibitions a subsequent decision. Thank you, Mr. Mestan, for coming back. You are forgetting a subsequent decision of the Constitutional Court and this is Decision No 8 of 2005, where the Constitutional Court explicitly states, I quote by memory: although the court, prosecution and prosecution have been assigned as part of the judiciary, they are not and cannot be equal. The main winner of the independence of the judiciary is the court. And the decision provides sufficient arguments that differences between their treatment must be made. Mr. Mestan, this really is an absolutely valuable question for me personally, and my decision was individual. Nothing less than my resignation could be given to hear this subject and this value. That was my motive. I am confident and I hope that although your statement was quite sharp on my behalf, the subject which I am putting before you today will remain on the agenda and will find Parliament in its work under the Law on the Judiciary and in the inevitable subsequent amendments to the Constitution, which will deal with the really pressing political issue of democratic accountability, and not the political control of the prosecution and the figure of the Prosecutor General, who, regardless of who holds this post, remains outside the necessary system of control and counterweights. You said I left zero behind.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u43	It's like laws imported here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u44	Yeah, like laws. Allow me, however, to correct this statement. Not for my own sake, I have never pointed out myself and I will not start doing it now, but because it is good to know we leave a very comprehensive Draft for amending the Judicial Law, which addresses the vast majority of the recommendations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u45	Where is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u46	I'll tell you where it is, it addresses the vast majority of the measures that the strategy lays down. We didn't bring it in because we were waiting to see how the amendments to the Constitution would eventually be structured. He was declared public in the summer, went through a really unprecedented amount of professional discussions with judges and prosecutors who took part, from across the country. My heiress will inherit our proposals. She'll make her political decisions...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u47	She hasn't been selected yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u48	Please, colleagues, don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u49	I don't claim to be elected, but I've resigned and someone will stand in my shoes. Isn't that right? She will inherit this project and our decisions, inherit all the wealth of professional discussion on them, assess what of them she will bring, but this is not zero, this is rich work material for both the colleague who will take over after me and the parliament. Finally, let me say: I find it absolutely ridiculous the allegations that have been made all this year, that the purpose of my work, and here everyone is responsible for themselves, has been a personal shift, although I was probably one of the few politicians, or actors on the field of politics, who all this time claimed that the Supreme Judicial Council should not be allowed to be released prematurely, regardless of often the difficult relations that we had with him, despite the fact that the idea that a Minister of Justice with the level of support that I had should be insane to think that he might attack the position of a chief prosecutor, let alone determine who would take it. In this sense, someone's desire to have his own Filchev... this phrase of yours hangs in space, Mr. Mestan. I won't attribute that desire. And I'm going to finish with this.. let's work so that no one can ever want and politically to settle the bills to have their own Filchev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u50	Personal explanation, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u51	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I'm not self-critical of you, I don't even think I've been critical. First of all, I did not mean you in the desire to find, to create the new Filchev, because 19 years ago you were not a minister, you were not part of this laboratory plan. So I referred rather to your political representatives at the Forty-third National Assembly. Secondly, I ask you to accept my agreement that I have never questioned the existence not only of a European but of a global standard, when it comes to democracies, of the independence of the judiciary. I said there are no universal standards for the place and status of the prosecution and the investigation. We have different standards here and therefore we cannot bear in mind standards in other countries where your colleagues appoint the chief prosecutors. I'm saying this is an acceptable conversation, but not within the framework of a simple folk assembly. It's a matter of re-establishment. And here I am already putting the issue of the Grand National Assembly as synonymous with the deep reform of the judiciary. We will not pass without this, Mr. Minister, as this conversation will not pass without the constructive role of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. I am now ready to talk to you, given the fact that you are the person who put this reform at the centre of public interest, no matter what quality you will be in. I am ready for this conversation, but I would like to show you and my colleagues once again that the SJC is now constructed so that if we remove the three large, parliamentary quota 11 is equal to the quota of directly elected magistrates, something that is preserved in both the College of Judges and the College of Prosecutors. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It's just what the Constitution allows us to do. And please from now on, it is nationally responsible for constitutional changes to talk objectively, not party biased, not to allow the party ego to swallow today's great success at the forty-third parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u52	I'm calling a break at 12.20. We continue with the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u53	Colleagues, we continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PROTECTION FROM THE MEDICAL REACTIONS OF CHEMICAL INGREDIENTS AND MESSAGES. In the beginning, we reached § 6 and voted on it. Now I expect Mr. Ivanov to report § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u54	Thank you, Madam President. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 the 1. In para. The National Centre for Public Health and Analysis and the Environment Executive Agency are replaced by the National Centre for Public Health and Analyses. 2. Paragraph 10 is amended as follows: The work of the Board of Experts shall be provided: 1. in carrying out an assessment within the meaning of para. 6 with funds from the European Chemicals Agency, in accordance with art. 14 (1) of Commission Regulation (EC) No 340/2008 of 16 April 2008 on the fees and payments payable to the European Chemicals Agency in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) (OJ L 107/6 of 17 April 2008.) 2. in preparation of a reasoned proposal and consideration of proposals within the meaning of para. 7 and 9 with funds from the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u55	Colleagues, statements under § 7 in the version of the Commission, paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 by importer supported by it? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 7 in the version of the Commission and the three paragraphs Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Before you continue, Mr. Ivanov, a procedure, colleagues. Earlier today, we voted in the weekly programme Project for a Decision on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Since different parliamentary groups have expressed their desire to hold a meeting with Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, I propose that this draft decision be discussed and voted as such. 1 in our program for Friday.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u56	Do they have a deal?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u57	Please vote. Vote 94 MPs: 87, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u58	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In the name of Chapter 6, the words "Regulation (EC) No 689/2008' are replaced by "Regulation (EU) No 649/2012'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u59	Statements by paragraphs 11 to 18? I won't. We vote on these paragraphs. Vote 98 MPs: 96, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u60	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19: "Seriously, I'm After art. 22g is created Chapter 6 of the Council with new art. Art. 23, 24 and 24a 24b: ..Chapter 6................................................................................................ Measures implementing Regulation (EU) No 98/2013 Art. 23. Precursors of explosives under restrictions within the meaning of art. 3, p. 10 of Regulation (EU) No 98/2013 shall not be provided, introduced, owned or used by the general public. Art. 24. In accordance with art. 5 of Regulation (EU) No 98/2013 economic operators shall label or make sure that an explosive precursors are labelled under a restriction indicating that the purchase, possession or use of explosives precursors under a restriction by the general public is prohibited. Art. 24a. (1) The Ministry of Interior shall be a national contact point within the meaning of art. 9 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 98/2013. (2) Economic operators shall report to the national contact point under para. 1 all suspicious transactions or attempts for such and significant gaps and the theft of the substances referred to in Annex I and Annex II of Regulation (EU) No 98/2013 in accordance with the provisions of art. 9 (3) and (4) of that Regulation. (3) The reporting under para. 2 is carried out in compliance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. Art. 24b. The obligations under art. 9 (6) of Regulation (EU) No 98/2013 shall be implemented by providing access to the guidelines for implementing the European Commission of that Regulation on the websites of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u61	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 19 in the version of the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u62	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20: .................................................................................. The name of Chapter 7 is amended as follows:............................. on chemical substances on its own, in mixtures and articles....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The words "Regulation (EC) No 689/2008' are replaced by "Regulation (EU) No 649/2012'. 2. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: Where it is found that a chemical placed on the market in its own form, in a mixture or in a product, mixture and/or biocidal product does not comply with the provisions of that law, its implementing regulations and/or the regulations referred to in art. 1, t. 3, and the substance, mixture and/or biocidal product presents a risk to the health and safety of persons and/or the environment, the Minister of Health and/or the Minister of Environment and Water or officials authorised by them may order the immediate and effective withdrawal of the substance, mixture and/or biocidal product from the market at the expense of the persons responsible for placing on the market or making use of the final consumer. 3. In para. 7 shall be added at the end of the application for environmental protection and/or environmental protection.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u63	Colleagues, speeches on paragraphs 20 to 23 including? I won't. We vote on the four paragraphs. Vote 92 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u64	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 3 words or registered low-risk biocidal products shall be deleted. 2. In para. The first sentence shall be replaced by the following: 55 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 making available on the market or use 3. Alinea 7 is canceled. 4. In para. 8 words under the tariff under art. 19z, para. 1, t. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 25 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred 5. Allinei 9 and 10 are canceled. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 30a: Art. 30a. (1) The Minister of Health on a proposal from the Minister of Interior may temporarily prohibit or restrict the provision, possession and use of substances not included in Annex I and Annex II of Regulation (EU) No 98/2013 in accordance with art. 13 (1) of that Regulation. (2) The Minister of Health on a proposal from the Minister of Interior may further restrict or prohibit the provision, possession and use of substances in Annex I and Annex II of Regulation (EU) No 98/2013, in accordance with art. 13 (2) and (3) of that Regulation. (3) When applying a measure under para. 1 and/or para. 2 The Minister of Health shall immediately inform the European Commission and the other Member States thereof, stating the reasons for its decision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 after the words symbol and the words "symbol' shall be replaced by "symbol' and/or "symbol'. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Directors of Regional Health Inspections shall, in accordance with their powers, suspend the placing on the market and/or the use of chemical substances, mixtures, including biocidal products, and/or articles. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u65	Statements on paragraphs 24 to 30 included? I won't. We vote on these paragraphs. Vote 92 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u66	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u67	We vote on the name of the division. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u68	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In the Consumer Protection Act (prom., SG...) in art. 82 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 3 the text shall be deleted after the word "the products'; (b) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. the control bodies under the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes.... regarding restrictions on the placing on the market and use of certain hazardous substances, mixtures and articles for the protection of human health;..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (c) point 6 is repealed. 2. In para. 2 words. 2 "6' are replaced by "the'. 2.. 5................................................................................ 3. In para. 4 words. 2 "6' are replaced by "the'. 2.. 5...............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u69	Statements under § 31? I won't. We are voting on this paragraph in the version of the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u70	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 32 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u71	Statements? I won't. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u72	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 32, and shall propose the following version: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Published until the entry into force of this law in accordance with the procedure of the repealed art. 19d, para. 1 authorisations for placing biocidal products on the market shall remain valid until the expiry of the period for (2) Persons authorised outside those under para. 1 shall submit within one month of the entry into force of this Act in the Ministry of Health documents proving that the supplier of the active substances or the supplier of the biocidal product is included in the list of the European Chemicals Agency under art. 95 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 for product-types to which the biocidal product belongs, which may be access letters within the meaning of art. 3 (1), point (u) of that Regulation, contracts, invoices and others. (3) If, within one month of the entry into force of this law, persons other than those under para. 1, do not submit the documents under para. 2 or documents submitted do not demonstrate that the supplier of substances or the supplier of the biocidal product is included in the list of the European Chemicals Agency under art. 95 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012, the Minister of Health shall revoke the authorisation granted for placing on the market of a biocidal product. (4) The authorisations granted until the entry into force of this law for placing on the market of biocidal products other than those under para. 1 for which the documents under para. 2 shall retain their validity until the expiry of the period for which they have been issued subject to the conditions of authorisation. The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 34, which becomes § 33 and proposes the following wording: ................................................ (1) Persons who, until the entry into force of this law, have authorisations to place biocidal products on the market, representing mixtures within the meaning of Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 (CLP) and classified according to the requirements of the Regulation under art. 5, para. 2 submit to the Ministry of Health an application to amend the authorisation by 1 June 2017 to which they apply: 1. proposal for classification and labelling of the biocidal product under Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 (CLP); 2. a summary of the grounds for the proposed classification and labelling of the biocidal product, including methods, data, calculations, criteria and others used; 3. documents confirming all data on the chemical ingredients and on the biocidal product referred to in the summary, including test reports, safety data sheets according to Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 and others; 4. a declaration of the identity of the chemical composition and of all other data on the biocidal product with the composition and data on the basis of which the first authorisation was granted; 5. draft label of the biocidal product in Bulgarian; 6. information sheet for the safety of the biocidal product in Bulgarian as required by Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006. (2) The documents under para. 1 shall be presented in Bulgarian, one copy of the document, and three copies of the electronic medium, accompanied by a declaration of identity of the information submitted in paper and electronic form. (3) The authorisations granted until the entry into force of this law, for which within the period under para. Applications for an amendment to the authorisation have been submitted and shall remain valid subject to the conditions of authorisation. (4) The Minister of Health shall revoke the authorisations granted until the entry into force of this law, for which within the period under para. 1 applications for amendment have not been submitted. (5) The Minister of Health shall review the authorisations granted under para. 1 in the cases and in the order of art. 18 years The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 34, and shall propose the following version: ................. The order of Art. 18th, para. 2 shall apply after the necessary technical and organisational conditions have been established. The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 35 and shall propose the following wording: .............................................................................. Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers shall introduce the ordinance under Article 3. 21e, para. 1 in accordance with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u73	Statements under paragraphs 32 to 35 including the Commission's report and the Commission's version? I won't. We vote, fellow Members. 99 MPs voted: 94, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u74	Under § 37, the Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u75	Statements? I won't. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The proposal is adopted and is therefore adopted at second reading and the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. Moving on to the next point: NATIONAL HEALTH STRATEGY 2020 AND PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT IT. There's a report from the Health Commission. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova. We are expecting Minister Moskov in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, pending the Minister of Health, I offer admission to the hall of Deputy Minister Persenski and to the Head of the Directorate of Medical Activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u77	We vote. Vote 97 MPs: 89, against 3, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u78	♪ I can't believe on the National Health Strategy 2020, No 502-03-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 November 2015. At its regular meeting on 3 December 2015, the Health Committee examined and discussed the National Health Strategy 2020, No 502-03-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 November 2015. The meeting was attended by Dr. Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, Dr. Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister of Health, representatives of trade union, consensus and non-governmental organizations in the field of health, as well as national consultants in various medical specialties. The National Health Strategy 2020 approved by Council Decision No 901 of 12 November 2015 was presented by the Minister of Health Dr. Petar Moskov. In his exhibition Minister Moskov explained that the adoption of the National Health Strategy is a precondition 9.3 of the Partnership Agreement, which outlines the assistance from the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014-2020. The National Health Strategy 2020 is a strategic document that frames the health policy and expresses the country's ambition to choose a national path for the development of the health system. The strategy defines Vision for Health Development in Bulgaria by 2020, when the country should be able to guarantee its citizens health welfare, high quality of life and reduce health inequalities through a comprehensive, fair, sustainable and high quality health system. As an objective expression of the focus of health policy on the sustainable improvement of the health of Bulgarian citizens in all age groups are defined the following national health objectives by 2020: 1. Reduction of mortality in children from 0-1 years of age to 6.8 in 1000 live births; 2. Death reduction in children from 1-9 years of age to 0.24 per 1000; 3. Reduction of mortality in adolescents and young people from 10-19 years of age to 0.28 per 1000; 4. Reduction of mortality in persons in the economically active groups from 20-65 years of age to 4.19 per 1000; 5. Increase the average life expectancy of people after the age of 65 to 16.4 years. On the basis of national health objectives, three priorities of the strategy have been developed: Priority 1. Creating health conditions for all throughout life. Priority 2. "Development and management of a fair, sustainable and effective health system oriented towards quality and results." Priority 3. Supporting the capacity of the public health sector. Each of these priorities shall contain performance tasks. On the basis of these three priorities nineteen key policies and action plan have been drawn up: Policy 1.1. Health for mothers and babies (0 to 1 year); Politics 1.2. Health for children and adolescents (from 1 to 19 years); Politics 1.3. Health for people of working age (from 20 to 65 years); Politics 1.4. Health for the elderly (over 65 years); Politics 1.5. Protection and improvement of mental health; Politics 1.6. Best possible health for people with disabilities; Policy 1.7. Health for vulnerable groups; Policy 2.1. ensuring financial sustainability of the health system; Politics 2.2. Provide quality, effective and affordable medicinal products; Politics 2.3. Development of an integrated model of emergency medical care; Politics 2.4. Development of primary outpatient assistance supported by high-tech specialised assistance; Politics 2.5. Optimised hospital care; Policy 2.6. Development of eHealth; Policy 2.7. Development of human capital in the health system; Policy 2.8. ensuring the quality and safety of medical care; Policy 2.9. Effective strategic and operational management of the health system; Policy 3.1. Promotion of health and disease prevention; Politics 3.2. Surveillance of infectious diseases; Policy 3.3. Effective and quality state health control. During the meeting a thorough discussion was held on the proposed national health objectives, priorities and policies in the National Health Strategy 2020. After the discussion and voting on the following results:........................................................................................................................................................... Project! DECISION adopting the National Health Strategy 2020 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 3, para. 2 of the Health Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the National Health Strategy 2020 (take-off).
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. On behalf of the Minister-in-Office? The strategy is clear. The debate is open. There's a word for it, Mr. Emile Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable Members, the National Health Strategy 2014-2020 is indeed a strategic document which every respectable country, particularly a member of the European Union, must have. It is impressive that literally on page four the Strategy begins with the adoption by the Council of Ministers on 21 September 2013. We all remember that it was adopted, was viewed in the Health Commission, I think that in May last year and then had to be seen in the Chamber. As early as January in the Partnership Agreement on 15 January, it is recorded in Brussels that this thing has already happened that the health strategy is being implemented. Here are the sacral questions: what has required the current health strategy to be updated, i.e. to be radically changed by what we saw last year? Not to impose it on the adopted health report I am opening a clamp for my colleagues to remind that in the Health Act it says: "Unless three months before the adoption of the budget for the next financial year the Minister must present a report on the health of the nation, in which he must state what is fulfilled, what are the problems, what measures are being taken. " Of course, to the question in the Health Commission where is the health report, Minister Moskov replied: "This report, I admit, there will be no next year. We worked hard with our colleagues, read the Health Strategy and found some things I can't help but share. Also on page 58, it is said that the health care package needs to be supported through additional health insurance and we know that there hasn't been one for three years. On page 59, it is said that health insurance providers must be given the opportunity to use health services outside the regulated order through a medical insurance contract. So someone remembered they already had medical insurance. On page 60, it is said that the package of health activities in outpatient care should be increased, that the funds for preventive work should be increased. Just a few weeks ago, looking at the next year's budget, we saw that there was no increase in funds in extra-hospital aid, prevention funds. What's going on? Why isn't he here? On page 61, colleagues, there is something very interesting about those who are excited about the topic: Colleagues, there's a word of oxymoron here, something like wooden iron, both voluntary insurance and medical insurance. Or I'm far from thinking that the minister doesn't know the difference. Someone probably let him down, and he just missed seeing what he's finally signing. Naturally, on page 63, a sustainable increase in health care funds as a percentage of the gross domestic product. We saw the next year's budget. The rate is exactly the same. Something very interesting on page 63: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 2. 1. 6. use of the public-private partnership in the financing of the health system. Colleagues, the Public-Private Partnership Act has been missing for one year. Most interesting, I see that a colleague is looking at me with focus, is on page 89 creating mechanisms for carrying out competitive selection based on objective and transparent criteria for selecting contractors for medical services and funding with public funds. Colleagues, what kind of competition? Two months ago, we adopted the Health Insurance Act, which says that the Council of Ministers, by regulation, will determine who the Cashier will conclude a contract with. Is this the competition you write about in this health strategy? Colleagues, I'm done with the examples in this Strategy. In short, with the objectives recorded in the Strategy, which were so detailed in the Health Commission report, there is no normal person who disagrees. Naturally, we agree with them. However, the paths on which this will take place, the measures that are scheduled, there is absolutely no way to agree with them. Frankly, we would agree even with the pictures in the Strategy, we would agree with the picture on the title page, but with the measures and the way it is proposed, there is no way we can agree. Guys, what happened? On the one hand, we have wishful thinking, on the other hand, what do we observe for a year? One year we see difficult access to health care, one year we see something fracking: splitting the package into two additional and basic; dividing the people into health insurance on the basic package and on the additional; dividing the people who have access and who do not. I would go on and on about socially significant, of socially irrelevant. That's something we can't agree to. There is no way to agree that in this Strategy there is nothing written about state property, public hospitals, hospitals, hospitals whose duties pass over 500 million hospitals that no one talks about what is happening. I have repeatedly said that at some point the Minister of Health, whoever he is, would be a general without an army without hospitals. I give only one example: the famous unification of Alexandrovska Hospital. It's been a few months now, the unofficial results we have, because the official ones are still not available to us, are staggering. Hospitals collect duties after duties. Didn't this unification have to lead to more efficient use of the funds?! My fellow Members, I repeat, with the paths to achieving the objectives we do not agree. The statement of this disagreement is the fact that the two main laws "the Insurance Act and the Medical Institutions Act" are in the Constitutional Court. There we strongly expressed our disagreement with the policy being conducted. In fact, here we are looking at one thing: one goal is stated, another is happening. Or maybe the old Shop fairy tale: Don't listen to what I'm saying, watch what I'm doing, it's in action here. Mr. Minister, this health strategy remains a good wish, but in the past days we have understood that Bulgarian patients do not believe you, except that we do not believe you from the opposition, we are already aware that even your colleagues do not believe you. So no one believes the Minister and we cannot support such a thing signed by him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u81	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. A line? Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Dear Mr. Raynov, you say we share the goals. However, there is one main goal missing. I see that on page 48, it is said that in the European Union, 24,2% of the population of the European Union was exposed to the risk of poverty. The Bulgarian Strategy states that in the European Union it is 24.2. Nowhere does this document raise the question that, according to official data, indisputable by anyone, 47 " 48% of Bulgarian citizens, Mr. Minister, live in the risk of poverty. Here, where you write about vulnerable groups, in a political tone, you've described some wonders. The biggest problem in Bulgaria, including health care, is the question of the impossible access of a large part of the Bulgarian population to healthcare. Of course, and to education and so on. This problem in Bulgaria does not exist. Otherwise, this Strategy is adopted in order to absorb some European money. It is a necessary condition. Nowhere in this Strategy has this gap shown in Bulgaria: 47 " 48%," living in the risk of poverty. Then let's line up the other targets. Otherwise, these goals are common ground. When you have such a huge percentage of the Bulgarian citizens living in the risk of poverty, distinguishing Bulgaria from other countries of the European Union, quite another is happening with the rest of the things written? pictures and works in this otherwise quite non-saving paper. Indeed, this account of a better future, as the minister said, turns out to be a story without cover. This is a story which engages the meeting time of the National Assembly and in no way reflects the real problems in Bulgaria. So, Mr. Raynov, all the targets are hell if there is no correct understanding of the situation in Bulgaria. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u83	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Mikov, you're absolutely right, so I said that the goals are one thing, but the implementation that is happening is quite different. It deepens the problems. [[General applause from GERB.]] I see that you are clapping, colleagues, but what is even shy and very effective here is written in the Strategy that 4% of Bulgarian citizens fall below the border annually, below the poverty line, because of payments. Personal payments, in the health system, and not everyone, coworker, can afford this payment in the health system. There is really no solution to any of the global problems in Bulgarian healthcare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u85	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. The word for speech is the national representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev, followed by Valeri Jablyanov. Here you go, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u87	Please, colleagues, let's be calm.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u88	With regard to the National Health Strategy, especially those who read and are interested in Bulgarian healthcare can talk for hours, even more so, that there are many other parallel topics related to the National Health Strategy. This strategy, as said by fellow Member Raynov, has been discussed, and it has been repeatedly discussed three or four times in the previous term in the Committee on Health, has not been adopted due to lack of time, but perhaps more important is that there was not enough willpower, and I have to admit that in order to be correct. We, too, from the DPS did not fully agree with the previous strategy. If we do an objective analysis and in the presence of the same facts as circumstances, parameters, problems, there is no way the constructive part of this Strategy can be dramatically different from the previous one proposed by the previous Minister of Health. The same can be said with regard to purpose, given European role models, given global standards in healthcare. There can be no significant differences in this part of the Strategy. We agree, especially given the growing challenges facing Bulgarian healthcare and why not global trends, that in a modern state there must necessarily be a vision, there must be a strategy for the development of health care, in this case through the prism and possible health reforms. Unfortunately, however, we are also aware that, conceptually on a non-Party level, these expert illusionary efforts for consensus or, if not consensus, have not come together, at least as a single route of implementation of these reforms and as the future of the health model. Unfortunately, with bitterness I say this, the confrontational style, the arrogant approach that hinders dialogue, is the main reason not to achieve this goal. A few months ago, we supported the concept of "Health goals 2020" because we accepted that it is a European framework that lays on sound foundations Bulgarian healthcare. We agreed with the constructive part, agreed with the objectives that are universal to one health care. There were no tools for action there, and that is why we adopted this Strategy. Health is not bad or good. There's one supposedly health care and it's good. I accept as an oxymoron the expression "bad health care." Health care is either there is or there isn't. For this reason, we thought this concept was appropriate, given that this route was shown by the Strategy. The current strategy has the same merit, structured in a similar way. We agree that it needs to be updated, given possible new legislation in the last period, new challenges, new parameters. On the other hand, however, who knows what has not changed this year. It is true that there are two adjustments in two laws "The Law on Medical Institutions and the Law on Health Insurance, but both laws are in the Constitutional Court and are waiting for their fate. Also, perhaps, if we were to note the new one, this is a dozen chaotic ideas of the Ministry of Health, some even, in our opinion, bordering on absurdity. We must make it clear that we agree with the three priorities set out in the Strategy, namely: 'health for everyone throughout life', 'the effective health system', and the third'strengthening capacity of public health'. With some reservations, we would even support the measures aimed at generating, quote: growth, social inclusion, combating poverty, health welfare and a new quality of life. From the parliamentary group, we will not support the current Strategy for another reason. Given our conviction in a specific model as the future of the health system in the country and our consistent protection of this model in recent years, especially seeing it deployed, functioning and effective in other countries, we do not agree with the instruments that propose achieving the objectives in this Strategy. The model mentioned here, in our opinion, is not suitable for the Republic of Bulgaria. On page 1, page 1, 65 is mentioned as: voluntary insurance through medical insurance, evidently as the development of a minister of finance from 2011 with a controversial attestation, which decided then and turned health insurance companies into health insurance. On page 1, page 1, 67 in the section "Merki" has a topic called "Stimuli" for the development of voluntary health insurance. We have repeatedly said, in our opinion, this model of health insurance system is not suitable for Bulgarian conditions and health care, at least because it is not in line with the way the health insurance model was initiated in the distant year 2000. We disagree with the action plan and the financial plan, where we see the same vices in the same way. We are convinced that the strategically correct, global, cardinal solution is demonopolist.. more than once and twice we have claimed this with relevant evidence that we are importing, even if this model starts with a builder, and then there is a complete demonopolist. This is, in our opinion, a medicine for the system and the only thing that would lead to beneficial results for Bulgarian healthcare. This situation must, of course, also be combined with strengthening the solidarity model of Bulgarian healthcare, including, of course, free competition between medical establishments of quality, free competition of medical aid contractors with patient service. The free choice of patients, given the first two situations and the health cases, should follow, in our opinion, only the choice of the patient with payment of the services performed. When this whole constitution of circumstances is present and is under the balanced regulation of the state, but not exceeding the constitutional threshold, when, after a huge waiting period, e-health with all its components is working, we think, there will also be an effective health system. Unfortunately, we see nothing of what is said here in the National Health Strategy. And for the finale, this Strategy will obviously be adopted not because of others, only because of political arguments, coalition appropriateness, institutional appropriateness and perhaps, as the previous speaker also said, in order to absorb European money and cut ribbons, of course, and in our view, compensation for the infirmity, and also.............................................................. But even if the National Strategy is adopted as the foundation of a health reform, the reform itself cannot be within the power of a single entity, in the face of the Minister of Health. Sooner or later, I have noticed that every minister understands that such a delicate and conservative public system, such as healthcare, requires permanent efforts for an impartial and even non-partisan approach and a constant goal, namely maximum, or at least at a critical level, acceptable and possible consensus. For all these reasons, we will not support the National Health Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u89	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. - What's the line? I won't. The word for speech has the popular representative Valeri Zablyanov, followed by Dimitar Bajraktarov and Hassan Ademov, in the order of recording. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed Health Strategy, tabled with a first-vote report, is an extremely curious document. Firstly, I would like to start by recommending that all colleagues read it, because I am convinced that it is hardly because of the time we have, that someone has tried to pay attention to it. I want to start with the purpose of this Strategy. Each strategy, regardless of what it is about, including the one about healthcare, should provide an answer to the main issues facing public health and personal health in Bulgaria at the moment. The main questions! They were accumulated in an extended period in which a new healthcare system was adopted, in which, as we know, hospital care was effectively removed by the introduction of personal physicians. Today, in this Strategy, we are astonished to read where it writes in the chapter on its financial stability, some strange reasoning, perhaps the financiers, why it is necessary in Bulgaria to constantly increase the costs of health care, to constantly increase budget expenditure and at the same time, according to a World Bank report, is the general finding that the health of the society is deteriorating? To this important question, this Strategy cannot give any answer. I'm not saying he wasn't put in it. It has been placed inside, even submitted data, financial parameters have been submitted, it is explained why and for what reasons healthcare costs have been growing in the last ten years and at the same time there is no suggestion how to reduce them, or how to control them, to call them that, because it is obvious that many are the processes that determine price increases in one area or another. The second question I want to address in the Strategy is extremely interesting, this is the question of the strategy's objectives. What objectives does the Strategy set? Pay attention, this is even more interesting: this is a strategy that has horizon 2020. What strategic character does a document have with a horizon of four years?! Whoever has been involved in formulating this Strategy and defining the horizon either doesn't know what strategy means, or it's just really prepared a document that we are here to adopt and which has absolutely no meaning to what's going on in the health care system has nothing to do with the health of society. Consider what should happen in four years, by 2020, as targets recorded in the system. Reduction of mortality in children from zero to one year of age with the corresponding parameters; reduction of mortality in children from one to nine years of age; reduction of mortality in persons in the economically active groups; increase of the average life expectancy of people after the age of 65. Well, which strategy for four years can take account of an improvement in these indicators as a result of its application, and then take account of the results of the implementation of the objectives? Because, you know, we accept this Strategy, we record some goals inside, and should, when the Strategy has completed its action by 2020, we should be able to say, "We have achieved this. " - Well, who can say this thing and how can we say it in four years?! My fellow Members, I believe that the introduction of the Strategy underestimates the very meaning of this task, of this exercise, to call it a daily language. Further, I would like to say a few more things on the content of the Strategy. It is oriented or I do not know who or how, why it has chosen this structure of the document, but it is oriented, as it is said on a principle which I will call specific health for all age groups. It is somehow defined by some parameters that I do not know how they are defined, but let's say children, adolescents, active working and finally older people over 65. What makes an impression? For each such age group, it is explained why it is in the relevant poor health condition and finally identified measures to be taken for the specific group. I'm giving specific examples. For children's healthcare, where it is described, for mothers and adolescents, the word "pediatrics" has been used one single time. In general, the question of the help of children in hospital care is an open field, it is provided to the Jeep. Each of you can go to one of the former polyclinics when epidemics begin, and find that in the same queue, in front of the same office, children of several months of age are waiting, and elderly people of 65 are waiting. What in the strategy do we do this division for? What is specific about these age groups when they all line up from babies to the pensioner in front of the same office of the treating physician? What's all this about when it's fundamentally different from reality? Next question that's interesting. In the entire strategy, as the measures have been recorded...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u91	Mr. Zablyanov, according to art. 55, para. 2, does your parliamentary group want a time extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u92	Yeah, we want a time extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u93	Thank you. Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u94	And thank you for reminding me. There is no mention of any line of dental treatment, honourable Members. Not a single row! Here are listed a bunch of accompanying factors that damage people's health. A bunch of co-factors! Poverty, I understand, illiteracy, indirectly, and whatnot. Dental treatment isn't in this strategy. [[GERB lines.]] Yeah, it's only mentioned once, and I'll tell you where. It is mentioned as an opportunity for the age group of the population over 65 years of age. And to tell you the truth, it's been a little sad and a little funny for those who wrote it, because what does the Ministry of Health offer with this Strategy at the time of the Bulgarian citizens? By the age of 65, the state has no commitment to your dental treatment and you are all toothless, and after 65 years the state is committed to giving you a prosthetic prosthesis. That sounds like a strategy! I urge you to look at the texts to find that this is exactly how it is written. A few more questions that matter, I think. For the health of children and adolescents, the main problems at this age, which are related to the use of alcohol, tobacco and drugs, are put at the end of the explanation and there are no proposed measures to address this, I would say, a pandemic, because our society has not yet been affected. All of us travel, see what is the state and spread of these vices among young people among the supposedly developed countries. Well, well, since in one indicator we have some advantage for a number of reasons so far, shouldn't we still think about it until we've reached uncontrollable values, what can we do in this area? He's not in the strategy. It is extremely interesting to have a Chapter on the protection and improvement of mental health. There's nothing wrong with that unless it's a hint of the nation's mental health and her condition. But it doesn't make sense that someone would explain to me the existence of this chapter in the Strategy and the absence of a head for dental treatment. What has more weight in this case, honourable Members? Let's still assume that most of the nation is mentally healthy people. But everyone suffers and everyone goes to the dentist's office. And you know what dental prices are. You all come from certain areas of the country, you know the state of the people you meet and who have no material capacity. There's no concern of the document. The construction and management of a fair, sustainable and effective health system, oriented towards quality and results, is really gaining a slightly administrative-comic-I don't know-what-kind. How do the authors of the Strategy or strategists explain to us that they will deal with the financial imbalances in the system that we were talking about at the beginning? One of the points is beautiful: The reduction of excessive use of specialized and hospital care at the expense of better health promotion and prevention of diseases. How does that sound in Bulgarian? I look at it this way. When you have to use emergency care, I have recently had a close friend of mine, and enter the first floor of the Institute of Pirogov, there you will see a dominant group of one of the minority groups in our society. Predominantly present. And you know why? I'll tell you why. Because polyclinical help has been shut down. The clinics were closed where these people could go and get more specialized help than the doctor. When they needed a surgeon, they would go to the clinic in the area and there was no need to go to the Pirogov. And right now, no one's thinking about it. That's how activities are expensive. I agree, it's even noted somewhere, but with some very interesting terms that you have to read about for a long time to get to know each other and explain what it's about. I recommend to the ruling colleagues before importing such documents, although through such a discussion minister as this of health care, it is politically controversial, mentally and in any case, I want to...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u95	Please don't do this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u96	Yes, yes, I understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u98	And when such documents are imported, I ask you to read them! I'm sorry, but you can't write something that is a strategy, as said by DPS colleague Mr. Kardzhaliev to take some money. Because that's what it says from the beginning. Then: the issue of the price of drugs. Here is a separate chapter on this issue. All the reasons why the current state of the prices of medicinal products on the market is virtually out of control are listed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u99	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u100	Since you say it's not true, I'm going to have to read you what the strategy says.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u101	No dialogue. And you have 25 seconds left, Mr...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u102	The main pricing mechanism for new prescription medicines, based on official producer prices in a particular EU Member State, is perceived as reference prices, does not work, is not effective enough and does not comply with the economic appropriateness of individual Member States. It's in the strategy. The bad news is, when we find it, we don't offer anything in the back. What do we find? That drug prices in pharmacies in Bulgaria are more expensive than in Serbia and that's why the population in Western Bulgaria is shopping mass drugs in Serbia?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u103	The parliamentary group's time is up. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u104	This strategy, fellow Members... I'm sorry, I would have kept reading with pleasure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u105	I see Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, he'll ask you...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u106	...doesn't answer any questions. It's a compilation, I'll say clerical, certainly done by previous governments to be honest, it's certainly written to meet the needs...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u107	Please, Mr. Jablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u108	I'm done, fellow Members. If you don't read it, at least hear what it's about. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u109	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. In the manner of conduct there is the word of the people representative Tasco Ermenkov. After him for speech Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm taking procedure the way it is. Please, we are discussing a strategy where the principal, who should be here, is gone. He was here, he sat, he walked away, and he made these impressions, why did he leave, embarrassed himself, and already resigned, listening to the political power that gave him? He's gone to negotiate a new set of vaccines, just like he was from Turkey...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u111	Please! I understand your request.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u112	Or is he offended by the fact that his portrait fell off the title page? So very please let him come back!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u113	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I ask the Secretariat to invite Minister Moskov, who is in the National Assembly. I see his things are here. The word has the popular representative Dimitar Bayraktarov. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is appropriate, before we say anything about this Strategy 2020, to remind you that, honourable Members, first of all, we are all patients, and some of our colleagues are Bulgarian doctors in different fields of medicine. But also patients. When we talk about this Strategy, perhaps the negotiators in some ways had the right, demonstrating through quotations from different pages, which, by the way, if you had done your job, you would have seen that you would not find them on these indicated pages, I can point out to you that for example, the adoption of the Strategy by the Council of Ministers is not on page 4, but on page 3, second sentence. But these are not so important things, rather showing that the strategy from the pre-speakers is read as we used to say when we were students... in a student way diagonally. But here you have heard heavy and strong words about poverty. However, colleagues, has poverty started in Bulgaria since 7 November 2014 or has it developed at a serious pace in the past 25 years? Were these same colleagues who spoke, where for good reason, where without reason, were they not part of certain governments, of certain ruling coalitions, and did they not have the instruments of executive and parliamentary power to change these indicators? Yeah, they did, but they didn't do anything. In fact, all of these, not to say most of them, when the 2020 concept was adopted, unanimously said that the healthcare system in recent years has been poorly managed. What's the main problem? The main problem is that we have one, unfortunately, underfunded system in which there is one, I will express metaphorically, a pie of three billion leva, to which a huge part of some of the speakers crave to grab as big a piece as possible. What really happened in the last year, which, by the way, is very well embedded in the 2020 strategy? First of all, all efforts were made to establish a system of control over public spending. Secondly, for the first time, steps were taken towards a quality direction at the expense of the volumes of something which none of the predictors dared to do in the capacity of governors. Thirdly, what is conveniently not to be said is what do we really want to do for Bulgarian citizens and for all of us as patients? To be treated as it was for years, or to be cured? What's more important, colleagues?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u115	Let's not get sick.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u116	I think it's more important to be cured. And if we need to concentrate on the prevention activity, which, first of all, is already a complex of serious measures, starting from the education system, from the family in particular, because if you do not want to deal with your overweight, believe me, the minister will not come to prepare you an individual diet to be healthy and not be a victim of cardiovascular disease. So far I have heard no argument that says: yes, this has not been done properly, has not been staked in the Strategy properly, should be bet this way. There was no argument like that. There was a political chatter, not to say that some of the colleagues went to extremes to personal insults, which is now unacceptable. The important thing is to know that this strategy is actually defining a direction anyway. I would like to ask the pre-speakers: do you want us not to fight a reduction in mortality in different age groups in children? Or you want this mortality to be increased, to actually destroy the future of the Bulgarian nation. Is that what you wanted when you spoke? Because I was left with such impressions. Someone who doesn't know the amount reported each year. So not just in a four-year period, but in each annual period you can account for whether or not these indicators are improved. However, what is important today is to say some important things that the Ministry of Health had to deal with. The first problem he had to deal with is the lack of any information and analysis about the state of the health system at the end of 2014, apart from the huge deficit that we as MPs all had to deal with in an express fashion and with the wagon, called CCB, of 3 billion. 400 million. lv. For this, however, it is conveniently withheld. For the first time the National Health Insurance Fund is over, fortunately I almost say "no deficit." Something that's extremely important. For the first time in years. We're talking about splitting health insurance packages. Yes, but if you had read the Health Insurance Act correctly, you should have known that there are citizens there who have health insurance rights. That's what the law says. There are citizens who import, and at the same time it turns out that they are almost sick and are forced to endure marginal societies, which, because of this vicious term called solidarity in the system, really bring out what needs to go for effective and quality healthcare. Yes, I wanted very much to be honest and honest, in the strategy to pay much more serious attention to a boil in the health care system, I cannot find a better expression on this issue, namely precise and clear measures for the demonization of the National Health Insurance Fund [[Applause by National Representative Semir Abu Melih]] . Perhaps the system that enables health insurance to be the first steps, but I have repeatedly expressed that opinion myself. I really want there to be more serious steps, and I hope that this thing will happen very soon, because this is the right way. It is very easy to criticize by colleagues who know, for example, that in the Netherlands healthcare is carried out with the modest 90 billion. Euros. In Bulgaria, with the huge amount of 1.5 billion. Euros we have to do wonders. We should note that for the first time, colleagues, in 2015 we have a drastic reduction of left Bulgarian doctors in the direction of Terminal 2. For the first time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u117	500.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u118	Okay. Unlike 1500, 2000, 3000 Bulgarian doctors who left each year in the previous years. So something positive is happening. Here I realized that some colleagues want us to build Bulgarian hospitals, Bulgarian hospitals with modern equipment on European projects. Yeah, but this is the way. You know that Bulgaria does not have that much money to provide this modernization of Bulgarian hospitals. The only way and way to finance is through European programmes. I heard criticism, only I didn't hear alternatives. And I want to and I offered the minimum pension to be 300 leva. And I want the income of the Bulgarians to be much higher because this means filling the Health Insurance Fund in terms of higher contributions. Yeah, but I want there to be something else that you've been helpful and hypocritically silent about here. There was no problem with voting against my colleagues so-called free choice for the pension funds. I ask you, why didn't you say anything? Some even criticized, you see, that it was an opportunity for health insurance. Shouldn't we look at this direction, which should be the first step and the first step for demonopolism? Except you're all afraid of demonopolitanization. Moreover, I did not even squeeze you to root out the other boil called supervision of the Health Insurance Fund, which is an absolutely out-of-control ghost in this system. Totally out of control! It is not subject to control by anyone, but it is the body that accepts and approves the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. There are many things, but I personally and my colleagues will support this Strategy because it is necessary and shows the direction in which we should go. That's the truth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u119	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Here you go. The word is from the People's Representative Jevdet Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Bajraktarov, we can not help but welcome your position in relation to your position for demonization of the National Health Insurance Fund, which our colleagues have expressed and which we support. It could only improve the functioning of the Health Insurance Fund, improve activities in the healthcare system at all. Rather, my question to you is: what is your vision, since you said in terms of pension status, in view of inequality, I mean health inequalities? As it is written in the Health Strategy that we are currently considering is that there should be a health level. But how is it achieved when the strategy is recorded in this way? In the budget recently adopted here, who supported, who with abstinence, who is against it, it is envisaged regional health funds to set the limits of the Health Insurance Fund and to have a limit on access. As you pointed out at the very beginning, isn't the access of all of us as patients to choose doctors a great inequality? What's your opinion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Another line? I won't. Mr. Bajraktarov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Member, with regard to the allocation of funds from regional health insurance funds, if you have a good memory, I have made an editorial proposal in the budget, which, unfortunately, has not been accepted, which is what I have expressed in this regard. I think it was clear and well expressed with a reasoned proposal for editing. As I recall, it is your group that voted against this proposal, which is already questioning what your attitude is when you ask this question. As far as inequality is concerned. I thank you for this question, but it would be very interesting to me if I had, honourable Members, before the Health Strategy 2020 to consider the Report on the Integration of Bulgarian Roma, which has passed through all the committees. But why doesn't he enter this Parliament in this Chamber? Then we would already be talking about equality: how is this huge group of poor people being used on her back to drain billions of levs for integration? When these people are used for such purposes, there will be inequality in terms of their social status and responsibility you have the majority of the present MPs involved in the previous management. Because about 3 billion. lv. are spent in the period May 2013 September 2014! Three billion leva "Remember this number, colleagues, for Roma integration!" You see how integrated these people are and how equal they are. From there on, when we talk about equality, it is good to look at one of the main priorities in the Strategy, namely well developed emergency medical care. To give an answer: how many of the medical institutions support this service 24 hours a day, to whom are these medical establishments brought closer, and why are they now bouncing when they should be forced to comply with the Law?! I don't know why that didn't affect him! When most of the emergency medical centers and teams had to be equipped with modern equipment... [[the President signals that time has run out]] In the first place, ambulances, equipment, as it should be, according to European standards, is that bad? Yeah, I know someone doesn't like it when things happen, but it's the right way. I thank you once again for your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u123	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. National Representative Hasan Ademov has the floor for speech. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The national health strategy by definition is a document that implies an agreement between the majority of the parliamentary political forces represented and why not the extraparliamentary ones represented. Unfortunately, this agreement, at least according to our parliamentary group, has not been achieved. I say this because it is obvious that this National Health Strategy will not be implemented only by one government, as it is until 2020. The National Health Strategy as a precondition for the approval of the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" is an important document and it is no accident that we are in a hurry to adopt it before the New Year. Although this Operational Programme has not yet been selected an audit body, some of the measures have already been put in place, are already under way, including the Ministry of Health, but to date there is no guarantee that the money that will be at the expense of the national budget will be reimbursed by the European Commission. Let's hope that happens. Next, I would like to say a few contradictions between the main components of this National Health Strategy. First of all. On the one hand, are the health-demographic parameters that are given as something that is a characteristic in recent years. Health-demographic characteristics generally suggest ageing the population in Bulgaria and Europe, but in Bulgaria, in addition to ageing, to the demographic picture of Bulgarian social and political life there is another additional characteristic of the population, except that ageing, and decreasing. 19.5% of Bulgarian citizens are over 65 years of age, which means that all insurance systems, including the health insurance system, should be reoriented from the point of view of increasing the needs of additional care in relation to ageing. Unfortunately, however, health-demographic problems are not backed up with adequate measures, with adequate priorities. Why am I saying this? On the one hand, it is obvious that we must pursue medium European criteria and average European indicators, because over the years we are far from European standards which are standards of the World Health Organisation. What we have set as a goal, for example, is to reduce child mortality by 7.3% in the 2013 at 6,8. In my opinion, on the basis of financial resources, on the basis of the basic package, on the basis that the government defines children's and human health as one of its important priorities, it is a low objective to reduce child mortality by 0.5. There are other parameters that I don't have time to deal with. This is the socio-demographic picture, which is tragic to date. On the other hand, it's fiscal parameters. Unfortunately, what you, Mr Minister, call a reform, is concluded only in pursuit of health objectives not as much as fiscal objectives, on the one hand, and on the other hand, of opportunities to renovate medical institutions. These objectives themselves are not reform and cannot in any way be called the reform. Because if they favour the development of the sector in one way or another and achieve higher health objectives, they are by no means solely and solely your government. Unfortunately, former Minister Desislava Atanasova came out. We can go further back in time to the other ministers, who were before you, have made maximum efforts in the Operational Program "Regional Development" - as they said earlier - to draw the strategic priorities so that you can implement them now and take the laurels, as they say. [[He addressed Minister Petar Moskov.]] Only what you're doing will come next Minister... [[Reply from Minister Petar Moskov.]] That's why I welcome not what you're doing... [[Reply from Minister Petar Moskov.]] I say that the next minister and the next ministers, whoever they are, will be the ones who will take advantage of what you are now offering as priorities. You are proposing in the Operational Programme "Regions in growth" for the development of health infrastructure, on the one hand, and the development of emergency assistance, in which there is nothing wrong. That 163 million. 500 thousand, which are exactly under this Operational Programme, must be used, to use the modern word, in the next programming period. But most importantly, funding with state funds, with public funds, on the one hand, funding with European funds does not correlation in any way with what is given as a social, health and demographic picture. And in no way this financial resource, in this limited financial space, can not improve the health of Bulgarian citizens under these parameters! It is no coincidence that I say this because you are well aware that over the last 15 years more than twice have increased public funds for health care, which in no way is correlation, unfortunately, with improving health indicators. That is, the space in which we can move by increasing the financial resource is extremely narrow, and that is why we need to focus on the third component. The third component is the model of the sector It is obvious that the more money there is in the system, the 129 million that are in excess for the next year, I am sure that it will not lead to better quality, because by going through this structure of healthcare, passing through this model of healthcare, proven to not lead to effective policies, it does not lead to the Bulgarian citizens being satisfied, it does not lead the Bulgarian doctors to be satisfied, which means that there should be a change of model. It is no accident that we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have come to the conclusion that the model of competing hospitals, the model of competition between hospital and outpatient care contractors, the model of competition for His Majesty's right to choose the designated physician, the designated medical establishment, does not give at this stage quality. Why? A very important question, Mr. Abu Melih, because the funding body is one and only. There is no competition between the funding bodies. That is why we say, and therefore we do not agree with this National Health Strategy, because the financial resource, whatever it is, is public finances, private revenues in the system, European money, passing through this model of funding, passing through this structure of healthcare in Bulgaria, passing through this structure of outpatient and hospital care, there is no way, even through high-tech activities, to improve the quality of health care in Bulgaria. We don't say, as the Minister said, that the Health Insurance Fund should go to the NSI, to be closed down. The health care fund must be placed under a condition of competition. Of course, we say that it is possible that there is a first, first and building model. For example, outpatient care should be taken over by this building model of health insurance. Therefore, we in our parliamentary group cannot, we have no arguments to support this National Health Strategy. European health strategies, European strategic documents put His Majesty the patient at the centre of the system, put health as an integrating policy, as a horizontal policy in all other policies. Unfortunately, our health strategy has placed the minister's address following his portrait in a central place in this system, which we absolutely cannot accept. We cannot accept it not only because the Health Committee was placed in a delicate situation to re-vote the National Health Strategy, because it cannot be published in this form in the Official Journal of the European Union, but because we believe that the patient is the one with his responsibility, not least with public responsibility, must be at the centre of the system. Since this has not been done, we of the DPS will not support this National Health Strategy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u125	Any lines to Lord Ademov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u126	Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u127	First line, but you don't have time for 20 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u128	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! Dr. Ademov, do you approve of the approach, the way in which this strategic document is dealt with and adopted, the National Strategy? In addition, is the discussion wide enough not only between the political forces but also in the public? From the examination of the previous Strategy to this document it has been a short time, amendments have taken place. Did they explain to the public the steps that are being taken? Is it complete, not adopted a number of changes in the legislation? Shouldn't this document have been strategically preceded by...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u129	You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u131	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u132	Very brief. Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Chakarov, from the back to the back of the line of course, the best way to change legislation and reform approach is to adopt at the beginning the National Health Strategy, but I suppose the Minister and his team relied on the National Health Strategy, which was prepared by the previous team. The vast majority of this document is in practice a copy of this document, which we are looking at now. But that's not the most important problem. The more important problem is seeking consent. I know that efforts have been made by the minister's team to seek agreement within the framework of the initiative. I know that efforts have been made to seek agreement in the Supreme Medical Council, but you know that both patient organizations and word organizations and the High Medical Council have people who are in one way or another related to the Ministry of Health, personally with the Minister, and feel a courtship team to the staff of the Minister of Health, so that they cannot in any way express different opinions. So my request is another time when you make such strategies, to listen to the advice of those who disagree. Because it's the easiest way to support you, to write you thank-you letters, to praise, generally speaking, not to use heavier expressions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-16.u133	Colleagues, there are also MPs enrolled for speech. The time, determined for today's plenary session, is over. Tomorrow we will continue to debate and vote on the draft decision. Thank you, Minister, for your participation. I'm adjourning the plenary session. Tomorrow at 9:00 a.m., we continue with the strategy. [[PHONE RINGING]]
