ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues. Please register. Abort registration. Second attempt at 9:15 p.m. 9:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u2	Colleagues, please take our seats and register. Abort registration. There's no quorum. Last attempt at 9:30 p.m. Discovered at 9:30.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u3	Colleagues, it's 9:30. There is clearly a quorum in the Chamber. Registration procedure. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear MPs, today is the first Wednesday of October, which is why the program is organized according to the proposals of the parliamentary groups according to the order of art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure. This month, in view of the rotation between the parliamentary groups, the first is the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. They have also proposed the first item for today's plenary day as a draft decision on the need to review the EU's policy of sanctions in relation to the conflict in Ukraine, importers.. Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. There are no proposals from the parliamentary groups of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the Reformation Block, the Patriotic Front, the Bulgarian Democratic Center. A proposal came in from the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Attack" but the draft decision submitted yesterday was allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy, which is why the conditions of art. 50, para. 8, the last sentence of the Council has not expired the time limits for the discussion of this draft decision, 15 days is the time limit in the Foreign Commission, which is why the proposal is inadmissible. There are no proposals from the parliamentary groups of ABB and GERB. Point two, which will be the first for Thursday, 8 October 2015, is the termination of the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly. A resignation has been given by the MP Maya Manolova. Point three, respectively, point two for tomorrow's plenary session, October 8, 2015, Thursday, is taking an oath to the National Assembly by the Ombudsman Maya Manolova. Point four, respectively point three for tomorrow, Thursday, is the election of a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the quota of the National Assembly. The procedure of choice shall be in accordance with rules adopted by a decision of the National Assembly. 5th item - First vote on the draft Insurance Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 8. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 9. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 10. The first vote on a Bill on the management of funds from the ESI Funds. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 11. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 12. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement amending, supplementing and continuing the Agreement on Grants under the Programme of the European Union for the Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS in Bulgaria and between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 13. A bill for ratification of the Annex amending the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support with regard to the Secretariat of the South East European Police Cooperation Convention signed on 12 October 2012 in Matrahaza, Hungary. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 14. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Swedish Ministry of Justice and the International Migration Policy Development Centre on the implementation of the project. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 15. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on financial assistance. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 16. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion of income and profits from the transfer of property. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 17. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 18. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Greece on the exchange of information on tax issues. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 19. A bill ratifying the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 20. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the implementation of a project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the destruction of the fuel reserves (liquid fuel components), Protocol No 1 on the amendment of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the implementation of a project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the destruction of the fuel reserves (liquid fuel components) and Protocol No 2 on the amendment of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the implementation of a project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the disposal of rocket fuel reserves (liquid fuel components). Importer of the Council of Ministers. 21. A bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of passenger information. Importer of the Council of Ministers. All the ratification laws are further included in our weekly Programme after the Conference of Presidents this morning. For each first Wednesday of the month parliamentary control is provided according to the order of art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Due to the pre-existing international commitments made by the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, four of the five who are subject to blitzcontrol are, for respectable reasons, unable to attend today, which is why there will be no blitz control in today's plenary session. According to my commitment after the Conference of Presidents, I have examined the possibility of conducting blitzcontrol by the end of this plenary week. It turns out that this is impossible because of the presence on tomorrow and on Friday of international delegations that involve the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers. This week's regular parliamentary control under art. The National Assembly's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure are on Friday, at its usual hour..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Please vote, fellow Members. They voted 146 MPs: 120, against 18, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 30 September 2015 to 6 October 2015: A draft decision to complete the Commission's composition on interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints. Importer "Borislav Iglev." Draft amending and supplementing the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act. Importer Ivan Valkov, and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Electronic identification bill. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead and the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. A bill for ratification of the Agreement on the European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Education and Science. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures Against the Financing of Terrorism. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, the Foreign Policy Committee, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Project for a decision on the adoption of the.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Importer of the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Defence Committee and the Foreign Policy Committee. Project for the Declaration of Support for the anti-terrorist operation led by the Russian Federation in Syria. The importer is Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Project for a decision on the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the international anti-terrorism coalition against the Islamic State initiated by the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin to the UN General Assembly. The importer is Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. A final audit report was received by the National Assembly, No 06-00-100-815, with an opinion on the audit of the report on the implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2014. The report was submitted to the Budget and Finance Committee and the Health Committee. The material is available to the MPs at the Library of the National Assembly. On 5 October 2015, the National Assembly received a report from the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 26 August 2015. "25 September 2015 and Protocol No 53 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Deposits and Banks Guarantee Fund. In my letter, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 6 October 2015 the National Statistical Institute received information on key indicators for the development of the economy in the Republic of Bulgaria as of 5 October 2015. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Mr. Chavdar Georgiev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, we strongly object in the way the National Assembly's Programme for this week was formed. In essence, you, Madam President, have covered up the Prime Minister and his deputies from the blitzcontrol owed. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Revelations: "Eeeee! "]] In the current military and political issues that excite our society extremely much and which are before the government and the prime minister to hide at the moment, it is simply unacceptable. That's why we insist on it. 4 under the Programme must be conducted blitzcontrol under art. 104 of our Rules. The Prime Minister and his alternates should report here and give an answer to the National Assembly and the public on these important issues by the Council of Ministers' policy. The National Assembly is the authority exercising control over the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers is accountable to it, not vice versa. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u5	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. I ask you to coordinate your proposal with the participants from the board of directors of your Board of Presidents Mr. Merdjanov, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, as well as the transcripts from the Conference of Presidents this morning and last Wednesday. As for the proposal that they really did, by the end of the plenary week to look for an opportunity, agreed with the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers, I explained tomorrow's visit to Bulgaria is coming, Mr Tusk has pre-supposed commitments and, anyway, the blitzcontrol will take place at a convenient time. Mr. Merdjanov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Once again, we are strongly protesting the way in which you are suggesting in plenary. As representatives of the Conference of Presidents, we strongly objected to the way in which you form the weekly programme and because there will be no blitzcontrol. That's obvious from the transcripts. It is impossible for the Prime Minister, since he knows very well when he is facing blitzcontrol, to make international commitments. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Revelations: "Eeeee! "]] Wait a minute, guys! Whenever there are visits by our representatives, domestic policy has a primate before foreign policy, and this is sufficiently visible and clear. We remain convinced that you are firmly seeking to cover up the Prime Minister, a brave person who is conducting a debate on the media, while refusing to come to the plenary and answer the essential questions of everyday life. Excuse me, but this is a rude violation of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u7	My actions, Mr. Merdjanov, are in accordance with art. No. 104, para. The 3th sentence is the last sentence of the Rules. Procedure Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Yesterday in the proceedings of the National Assembly entered the joint report on the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code of the Budget Commission. I therefore ask you today to put to the vote an extension of the deadline for proposals by the Members of the National Assembly between first and second readings to 30 October, including.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u9	Mrs. Stoyanova, I haven't been informed. The proposal for these deadlines shall be made after the announcement of...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u10	Yesterday, Madam President, it was announced.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u11	I apologize then, I didn't participate until the end of the meeting you are entitled, Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Glauchev confirms your right. He read this message. Is there a reverse offer? I won't. I put Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal to the vote. They voted 143 MPs: 138, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point one: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO PRESENT THE REPRESENTATION OF THE EUROPEAN UNION'S SANCTIONS POLICY WITH REGARD TO THE CONFLICATION IN UKRAINE. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I make the procedure point one and the debates on it to be broadcast directly on BNT and on BNR. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Yes, this is an extremely important point from which Bulgarian citizens need to see how the Bulgarian Parliament protects their interests because Bulgaria loses billions. I call on you to support this proposal. The Bulgarian citizens need to see whether the Bulgarian Parliament is speaking to them in one language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u13	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 129 MPs: 50, against 43, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. The Foreign Policy Committee report will introduce us to Mrs. Grozdanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision on the need to review the EU's policy of sanctions in relation to the conflict in Ukraine, No 454-02-63, submitted by Mikhail Raykov Mikov and a group of MPs on 17 December 2014. At a regular meeting held on 21 January 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the draft decision on the need to review the EU's sanctions policy on the conflict in Ukraine submitted by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs on 17 December 2014. In connection with the violation of the territorial integrity of Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea, targeted restrictive measures including the freezing of assets and the prohibition of access to the territory of the European Union of persons and organisations involved in the conflict in Ukraine have been introduced within the European Union. In addition to the targeted sanctions, the Heads of State or Government of the European Union agreed on 29 July 2014 a package to impose substantial additional restrictive measures aimed at sectoral cooperation and exchange with the Russian Federation. These decisions restrict the access of Russian state financial institutions to European Union capital markets, impose an embargo on arms trade, establish a prohibition on exports of dual-use items to military end-users and reduce Russia's access to sensitive technologies, especially in the oil sector. The package is in response to the instructions given by the European Council on 16 July. The reasons for the draft decision were presented by the MP from the parliamentary group BSP left Bulgaria. As a major argument for the submitted draft decision, importers argued that the political objectives of the sanctions applied were not achieved in their view. They expressed their opinion that action is needed to be proposed to the European Union in order to repeal sanctions, including the write-off of Russian parliamentarians from the banned lists, in order to ensure a better dialogue with the Russian side. Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov presented a meeting on the draft decision. The general assessment of the European Council of 18 December 2014 is that the situation in Eastern Ukraine continues to be a source of great concern. The Council's talks on January 19th this year reaffirm that a review of sanctions and decision-making can only be made in the case of progress based entirely on the implementation of the Minsk agreements. The tensions observed since the last days in Ukraine, which led to numerous civilian casualties, do not give rise to the lifting of the restrictions imposed by the European Union, but provokes the demand for additional measures to find more effective and coordinated action by the EU member states to achieve a lasting resolution of the conflict. Only the initiation of concrete actions by the Russian Federation on the implementation of the Minsk agreements and the return to compliance with the principles and rules of international law may be the basis for taking action to alleviate sanctions on a different scale. It is precisely the respect for the Minsk agreements that would lead to a deescalation of the conflict that would enable the political dialogue to resume. Despite the contractions introduced by the Russian Federation and the direct and indirect losses that Bulgaria is suffering together with other EU member states, at this stage the restrictive measures imposed on Russia remain a major instrument for impact on the situation in Ukraine and in particular the conflict in the eastern part of the country. The decision to impose these measures has been taken unanimously and is an expression of the unity of the Member States held by the European Union and their common disagreement with the violent illegal change of state borders in Europe and with the deliberate destabilisation of a sovereign state. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 4 votes.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. On behalf of the importers, the draft decision will be presented by Mr. Mikov. We're listening, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The submitted Project for a decision reflected the situation ten months ago. It is even more up-to-date today when leading European politicians assess sanctions against the Russian Federation as ineffective, assess them as an obstacle to improving relations and dialogue, assess them as harmful to Russia's possible involvement in solving problems in Syria. Leading European politicians, ladies and gentlemen! Although there is unanimity on this issue when it is adopted, it is obvious today that the sheep's ewe of the Bulgarian government is a clear position on this issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u17	Mr. Mikov, please measure the qualifications of parliament and government.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u18	To Parliament it is not, but obviously it is the ewe of the government and I will tell you why. In the dairy sector, sanctions have had very severe consequences for Bulgaria. I, colleagues Dora Yankova and Bachvarova, put Bulgaria's questions for compensation to the Minister of Agriculture because severe damage was caused to the Bulgarian dairy and milk processing sectors. The contractions closed the markets for European goods, while European goods, high-subsidized, invaded Bulgaria and destroyed local production. This is also set out in the reasons of the draft decision. Secondly, Minsk agreements are obviously going to calm the situation in Ukraine. Thirdly, our country is one of the most affected and therefore it goes to have a clear position on this issue. I pay attention again, leaders of large European countries have changed their position and are already talking about changing relations with the Russian Federation and in the context of what is happening in Syria. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the inefficiency of these sanctions has been proven. Inefficientness, which is obviously also linked to the notion of how sanctions will almost change anything. They didn't change anything, they turned out to be an inefficient tool. And this repeated mantra: there is no other way to prove that there is obviously another way. Interparliamentary contacts are hampering contacts with representatives of the parliament of Russia, with the parliaments of the European Union and in particular with the Bulgarian Parliament. Traditionally good relations between the Bulgarian and Russian people are breaking up because in the public of the Russian Federation there are severe comments and severe moods regarding the positions related to the sanctions. This in perspective will give very severe damage to our cultural cooperation, our economic cooperation and, in general, our friendly relations. Political sanctions, in fact, and the limitations of dialogue, are a great hypocrisy. Certain politicians are included in some list, at the same time other politicians make contacts. The Bulgarian government sent three ministers to Russia, and why should certain Russian politicians not be able to visit Bulgaria? I believe that this is detrimental to the political bilateral dialogue between our parliament and the parliament of the Russian Federation. It is clear that stagnation in economic relations resulting from sanctions and the corresponding counter-sanctions brings serious damage to the Bulgarian economy. I mentioned the dairy and dairy production, e-car production and about a 40% drop in tourists from Russia to Bulgaria for this year, including the deteriorated economic and interstate relations between Bulgaria and Russia. Honourable MPs, different estimates, but in some estimates the direct damage to the Bulgarian economy in these ten months exceeds 100 million. Euros. I don't comment on the collateral damage that's multiple times as much. In the so created environment The project for a solution is even more up-to-date. He must engage our government with a clear position. Our government has been absent all day, preparing, cutting hair, shaving that there will be important guests from abroad.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u19	Mr. Mikov, this is now a clear disrespect for the authority of government.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u20	What disrespect? Why aren't they here to fulfill their parliamentary control commitment? What are they doing?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u21	I think that question has already been asked and has been answered.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u22	Okay. It is obvious that the National Assembly in the parliamentary republic must take a clear position. That's why we've offered three points to the Project for a solution. The first is against the enlargement of sanctions by the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u23	Please read the entire draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u24	Shall I read it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u25	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u26	Okay, I'll do it. Maybe someone else will, but, come on, I'll do it. [[Radio from the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u27	The importers usually offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u28	"Project" DECISION on the need to review the policy of sanctions on the European Union in relation to conflict in Ukraine The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 85, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It is declared against the enlargement of sanctions by the European Union in respect of the Russian Federation and against the imposition of sanctions by the Russian Federation against the member states of the European Union. 2. Instructs the Council of Ministers to draw up a plan to phase out sanctions imposed by the European Union against the Russian Federation to be submitted for approval to the European Union Foreign Affairs Council. That is, the active role of the Bulgarian government in this matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u29	That's not in the Solution Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u30	He's not here, but I'm gonna make it clear that they don't think it's about them. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] It doesn't say anywhere in the Rules that we should read the projects here. That's not... It's a project presentation. "3." Calls for the immediate abolition of the travel ban in the European Union of Word MPs and the Federation Council of the Russian Federation in order to facilitate interparliamentary dialogue between the European Union and the Russian Federation; Dear Members of Parliament, I believe that the adoption of the Decision will be a worthy position of the Bulgarian Parliament, which will outline the national interest and wishes of the Bulgarian citizens. Among other things, this will be a clear sign that Bulgarian foreign policy can have a character. It will be a clear sign that the Bulgarian Parliament, the Bulgarian Council of Ministers are autonomous and independent bodies which serve only the Bulgarian national interest and the interests of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. The debate is open. Please MPs who wish to take part Mr. Siderov is first, after him is Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, all related to the lifting of sanctions against the Russian Federation, the Ataka supports it. Moreover, I make a note, Madam President, because long before BSP wakes from sleep and offers what it offers now [[(Shouts from BSP LB:]] , "Attack" proposed it on 17 March 2014. I repeat, 17 March 2014! Back then, the government was in the hands of the BSP government. Then Prime Minister was Plamen Oresharski, who told the media: Bulgaria will not veto the sanctions. This was on 25 March 2014. A few days after our proposal to cancel the sanctions, your Prime Minister said I would not cancel them. [[Relations from the Patriotic Front and GERB.]] I didn't back him up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u33	I beg of you, no lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u34	Be very careful what you say. Look in the Ministry, I voted against the government of Plamen Oresharski. Against! I'll get you that reference and I'll hit you...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u35	Colleagues, no lines!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u36	...in the head every time you speak lies on my behalf. Be careful, you don't have to lie! [[Heckling]] On 30 July 2014, Plamen Oresharski supported sanctions against Russia. Your Prime Minister (BSP LB) supports sanctions against Russia! Mihail Mikov, you as President of the National Assembly did not allow the visit of Sergey Narishkin here. What are you hypocrites for now? You did not allow Sergey Narishkin on a planned visit, for which I pleaded before you personally to disregard these ridiculous sanctions, and to accept it. You didn't accept it. What are you pleading now, after the rain, a hoodie? Why did you reject our proposal submitted on 17 March 2014? Why didn't you even let him go to committee? Answer, come and answer here! Why, on 27 October 2014, you also rejected this, together with GERB and DPS, you rejected what I propose. Come out and answer here, let the people hear you. When you speak, I think of the article of Krastyu Pastuhov, who killed him in prison: "Don't tempt me, hypocrites! " [[Applause by "Attacka"]] . When you talk about sanctions, Mr. Mikov, you should contact your colleague, who is behind you, who was your Foreign Minister, who went and legalized the fascist junta in Ukraine, who rejected our request to recognise the referendum in Crimea. You rejected this request of ours the whole time you were in charge. All the while you were ruling, you recognized the fascist junta that came with a bloody coup d'état of power in Ukraine. What are the hypocrites for now? To whom do you present these alleged requests for non-extending sanctions? When someone here talks and wants something, they have to be consistent and accurate. You can't, when you're in power to conduct politics....an anti-Russian, russophobic, pronathovska. We cannot, when we appeal to you, give your 38 votes there, how many have you become, 30 and how many votes to become 48 signatures and initiate a referendum on whether Bulgaria should be in NATO or not, what have you done, Mr. Mikov? You hid our proposal, you didn't give a single vote, and when we asked you why, you said: "We have made our civilization choice." You have made your civilization choice, you want to be in NATO and you brought the American bases because here one of those who have signed here your draft decision is called Angel Naydenov. This was the man who wanted more NATO to protect us from Russian planes when he was defence minister last year. This was the man who was the main factor in deploying American bases. He was a very pό.... even from Solomon Passy. I remember him then. The second person to sign under you is Christian Vigenin. I already told him, he went and embraced the bloody murderers who carried out the coup called Meidan. What kind of sanctions do you want to cancel now? Against who? Against the ones you're working against! So, if we wanted, Madam President, to follow the procedure, our proposal is much older, it had to be considered first. It's much more accurate, much more hurtful, much more effective. We say this: The Bulgarian National Assembly decided: it entrusts the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov and the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Daniel Mitov at the first meeting of the Foreign Policy Council of the European Union, as well as the Council of the European Union at the level of prime ministers to express Bulgaria's official state position to abolish restrictive measures against the Russian Federation. This is what is called a precise, clear and effective proposal. If you accept this, if you have not rejected it for a year, ladies and gentlemen of the BSP, if the majority now accept it, this will be an effective measure. Because the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister will already be authorized by the highest authority in the state.. The National Assembly, and when they go to the Council at the highest level in Brussels, they will be able to say: Now they do not have this authorization, now they cannot invoke that the National Assembly has assigned them this function. If we want to be precise and effective if we want to overcome the damage, the really big damage from the sanctions against Russia, if we want to be adequate at all in the geopolitical situation, we should accept our proposal and assign the Prime Minister to propose in Brussels the cancellation of the sanctions. Yes, there are a lot of leaders in Europe who are already thinking this way and are already ready for this to even serve as an incentive and they can ask for the penalty to be lifted. As for the current situation in Syria, because it was also mentioned, we announced here yesterday at a press conference that we have tabled a proposal......................................................................... and adequate to the situation................ We have already joined the UN resolution signed by 104 countries, with which the Islamic State refers to a terrorist organisation with which we are against this terrorism and there is no contradiction with our foreign policy. I therefore plead and take this opportunity to address you, Madam President, as quickly as possible, to move our proposal. It was really imported yesterday, but it could have come in today if representatives of BSP left Bulgaria had agreed to our written proposal, which yesterday we submitted to your office, Mr. Mikov, but you were gone all day and pretended that you did not receive it, and we asked you to give us this item today under para. 8 and we'll fight back with the same thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u37	How's he gonna back down?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u38	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u39	No lines from the place!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u40	When there is consensus, your favorite word can do anything. Only there's no consensus, there's hypocrisy. That is why the attack will support what you are proposing, but this is not your real cause. "Attack" will support it because it is our cause, because for it we fight, when you closed your eyes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u41	First line, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u42	Dear Madam President, Mr. Siderov, honourable Members of the National Assembly! If anyone thinks that this position of Mr. Siderov is dictated by the jealousy that someone else is so clearly and categorically putting this day-to-day issue will be wrong. [[Reply from "Attacka."]] It's not jealousy! Today he revealed the essence of this political line, which they stand for, and it is that one can exclaim: what revolutionary rhetoric and what mild political conclusions this party demonstrates! Dear Mr. Siderov, the Bulgarian Socialist Party has never voted for foreign causes on its political line, and I object to what you said. We, as a democratic party, have had opinions other than what is demonstrated here today, but we have overcome these wrong positions, the individual positions of some of our members and the party's line, expressed today by the President, expresses our political nature and meets the vicious social need, unlike your speaking, other than your action.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u43	Second line, Mr. Ermenkov. Third Mr. Mikov. As long as there's no line to the line from those affected! Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u44	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Siderov! We are looking at a draft decision of the National Assembly, and we are not measuring our muscles. At the moment it is not interesting to the Bulgarian people who, when and what he has proposed. Everyone in their life has ever made a mistake, and I don't want to quote yours. You know them better than I do. The whole room knows them when you moved to the right, through the middle, left, back, as political orientation and as actions you are doing. For this reason, I ask you very much, when you come out and speak, let's speak on the substance of the problem, whether these sanctions interfere with the Bulgarian society, whether they are against the economy of the state. Because otherwise we do politics and it doesn't suit you as a politician to do it from the National Assembly stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u45	Third line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Siderov, you know very well that I invited Narishkin to Bulgaria, including I took action to derogate the sanction. But the big question today is another one. ▪ What role do you play today? You are actually serving those who do not want the real discussion of relations with Russia to be held in the National Assembly. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] You serve them, Mr. Siderov, with your screaming rusophilia, with the raised tone, including the way you asked Bulgaria to participate in the military conflict in Syria yesterday. After you submitted a position for neutrality in relation to events in Syria to the National Assembly on 30 August 2013, yesterday you submitted a military-loving proposal for Bulgarian citizens to join the two planes, perhaps with some wooden rifles in Syria. [[Lowered noise and lines from Ataka.]] Bulgarian citizens are starting to feel their bellies laughing now that such large military lovers are on TV screens, because when you do it for years, it starts turning into a farce no matter how dramatic the tone is raised, no matter how much the shirt is torn [[Applause from BSP LB]] It becomes a simple farce. Today there is one topic, and I insist that we do not deviate from it, despite the clown that is being done to prevent the real discussion of Bulgaria's position in terms of dropping sanctions, the position of the Bulgarian government. Siderov said nothing about the Bulgarian government at this time. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u47	Thank you. The hole, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u48	Three whole titans of political thought came out here and showed that you really couldn't say anything at all. [[Noise and lines.]] What did you do in those three lines? You raised insults after insult and tried to qualify. Why don't you get to the point? Why don't you, Mr. Mikov, answer the question: why didn't you move our proposal for sanctions? Why are you running away from this question? That's basically the discussion. That's the whole point of the discussion. And not only are we not interfering with this discussion, we are pushing it to actually be conducted, only you are running away from a discussion because you have to answer: why have you been preventing the issue of limiting the sanction all year? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Yeah, you and the government got in the way of that thing! [[Reply of the People's Representative of Mikhail Mikov from the place.]] You, Mikov, as President of the National Assembly, have prevented this matter from moving forward, so if there is a clown somewhere, if there is a farce, it is within you, it is with you! It's very well known that you didn't let Mr. Nariskkin go. It is very well known that when Foreign Minister Lavrov came here, you deliberately did not send an invitation to me, although you were obliged to send to all chairmen of parliamentary groups. Then you did not send and when you were asked by our parliamentary group Why? Is this behavior mature? Is this the behavior of a politician who is the leader of a party? Was that the behavior of a man who was second in the country? No, that was infantile, vicious and jealous behavior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u49	Please, Mr. Siderov, no personal qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u50	Well, I'm sorry, Madam President, but they tried to qualify. I always, you know, meet my challenges.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u51	I'm trying to stop you all from insulting qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u52	So it is clear to all of us that you did not really want this annulment of the sanctions, but you could have done it when you could have received a majority. Now you won't get it, it's very clear, so your movements are now just purely theatrical etude. You know very well that this proposal will not pass. Yeah, we'll support him, but that doesn't stop us from saying things. The truth first! [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u53	To speak, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Bajraktarov, Mrs. Grozdanova and Mrs. Vigenin have joined him until now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u54	Madam President, honourable Members! It is with great regret that this debate, which was provoked by the speech of Mr. Volen Siderov, is not in the interest of the united opposition in this part of the Chamber, but is entirely in the interest of the ruling Party GERB and the main culprit for this state Prime Minister Boyko Borisov [[Applause from BSP LB.]] We are here today to discuss a draft decision, given the need to review the sanctions against Russia in connection with the conflict in Ukraine and any such disagreements in the opposition, I say again, are entirely in the interest of the right-wing, far right-wing forces in Bulgaria, which, unfortunately, govern, headed by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. On this occasion let me say first, I support the proposal, the BSP decision project left Bulgaria and I will vote for it. And I would like to note the following before this vote - Bulgaria has a vassal government. That's not news. For the past 25 years, this has been another vassal government that has been implementing it, fully following orders from Washington and Brussels. But here are the exceptions when it comes to sanctions against Russia. Here are the exceptions within the European Union that say that Bulgaria has examples that can follow. Look at the behaviour of the President of the Czech Republic Vaclav Klaus, who allows himself to express an opinion completely different from the opinion of the European Union and the United States of America. See the opinion of the Slovak Prime Minister, the opinion of the Hungarian Prime Minister, who, despite the sanctions imposed on the Russian Federation, continues to work at a technological level to complete the nuclear reactors near Budapest, built entirely by the Russian Federation. What can I say about the behaviour of the Greek Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of Greece Tsipras, before and now, fully in line with the Greek national interests, thanks to which Turkish Stream will pass, at least at this stage, through Greek territory and not through Bulgarian territory? Isn't Greece a member of the European Union? Should Greece not have complied with the European Union's sanctions requirements for the Russian Federation? Naturally, Greece did not comply, but I do not recall the imposition of criminal procedures on Greece. Furthermore, the European Union regulation allows exceptions in individual cases from such sanctions. I immediately give you an example that is very insulting to our national self-esteem. Only three weeks ago a contract was signed for the Nord Stream project 2. On what moral grounds, on what legal basis, will the regulations of the European Commission, Germany and other interested parties push a second pipeline along the bottom of the North Sea and block the passage of South Stream along Bulgarian territory into Bulgarian territory as a member of the European Union? Naturally, the power of German interest, the power of the interests of the rich countries in the European Union! I mean, there are precedents that we can refer to if we really take care of our national interests. Let me say something that will probably outrage part of the Chamber, especially GERB Party. I would like to say that the policy of Party GERB towards Russia, unfortunately, is formed not by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, not by the political leadership of Party GERB, not by the political cabinet of Mr. Boyko Borisov. The Russophobic policy of this government is formed by Prime Minister Nenchev and the leader of the right opposition...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u55	Prime Minister Nenchev?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u56	I apologize, Madam President. [[Radio.]] From the Minister of Defence Mr. Nenchev, and one of the leaders of the Reformation Bloc, Mr. Radan Kanev, with sincere russophobic beliefs that impose these beliefs to harm the Bulgarian interests, cultural, political and economic, of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. With great regret I have to say that he is their leader and not a voice of the will and the interests of GERB Party, which claims to be a party folk. On this occasion, let me tell you who benefits from this russophobic policy in purely economic terms. First of all, Serbia's agriculture, which thanks to the imposed sanctions that we are blindly implementing in terms of exports of agricultural produce to Russia, currently Serbia has completely taken over the Bulgarian quotas and exported 100% of its agricultural production to the vast Russian market. I know what you are going to say - Russia is not a member of the European Union, and it is not bound blindly to meet the requirements of Brussels, but remember that Serbia is a candidate for the European Union, it is in a negotiation process and any such behaviour that it allows itself could make the negotiation process that it is currently successfully conducting with Brussels difficult. I have not heard at any time that Serbia has been reproached in a very sharp way by Brussels because of this behaviour, which I refer to as a reference to the European Union's rules on sanctions imposed on the Russian Federation because of the events on the Crimean Peninsula. Therefore, I repeat once again, I will support this very good decision, this draft decision on the need to review the EU's sanctions policy towards Russia, and I call on the MPs in the middle and right parts of this House to vote on conscience, not with their party books. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u57	- What's the line? I won't. To speak the word has Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I think that when our attention is such an important decision, and an important proposal for a decision, it would be right for emotions to remain in the background. Perhaps it is good to remind you that all of us here have sworn to work for the benefit of our people in favor of our country. And it is really important to judge with facts, with arguments in fact what are the benefits of Bulgaria, what are the losses and what is the real picture? One of the previous speakers gave an example of the export of dairy products. Only I'll give you accurate, clear statistics, and you decide. This statistics is also good to know by the Bulgarian people. For example, in 2013, exports of cheese and cheese to Germany account for about 1300 tonnes, and exports to Russia account for about 230 tonnes, i.e. six times less. However, there is another interesting statistics that the Bulgarian people should also know. The price of gas in Germany, Russian gas, is $300. However, the same Russian gas is sold in Bulgaria for about 503 dollars. Interesting stats. How is it that our brothers, Slavs, sell their brothers gas at almost twice the price? And there's an even more interesting statistic right now. She's right now. The Russian monopoly, a retailer in Bulgaria, at a price of oil currently around $45 barrel sells fuels retail at prices between 2.00.20 BGN. per liter at a price actually calculated, calculated price, which should be currently of about BGN 1.75.80. However, I ask the pre-speakers: how is it that no one thought to protect the Bulgarian producer in this direction, when it is clear to everyone that the cost of transport holds a serious relative share in the cost of each produced product? How is it that fuel prices are falling all over the world, only in Bulgaria there is some reverse dependence because the monopoly is Russian, to grow? So is this a defense, colleagues, of national interest?! Perhaps I should remind you what is Bulgaria's foreign trade balance with Russia. Just don't anyone try to blame me for being a blondophile, a russophobe, whatever. 50% of the blood of my two children is Russian, to know it, so I strive to be absolutely responsible in my speech in defence of the Bulgarian interest. What's the foreign trade balance? 11 billion imports from Russia to Bulgaria, i.e. 11 billion fresh Bulgarian money comes out of Bulgaria and goes to the Russian economy against 900 million reciprocity. The interest of Bulgaria was very protected! I ask: where were these governments, I do not comment by name, to put the issue on a principle basis? This Russian market is vast, but Bulgaria is becoming a vast market for Russian producers, not vice versa. These are the realities. I ask: who and in what way protects the Bulgarian interest? There's another very serious moment we shouldn't turn a blind eye to. Are we encouraging an illegal transmutation of sovereign borders? Has anyone asked themselves that this same trouble could be hit with full force at any moment with regard to Bulgaria in its southeast? I ask: has anyone asked themselves that question? No! It is very easy to develop demagogy, to develop populism, without giving ourselves a clear idea of what threat we ourselves are under. I will ask colleagues who comment on this issue to distinguish themselves from their emotions, to distinguish themselves from their addictions, whether they are russophiles, whether they are Americanophiles, and I do not know what else, very please, be Bulgarianophiles today. Be Bulgarians because Bulgaria is above all else and we must think of prosperity in the first place of our people, our people and our homeland! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u59	Replices to Mr. Bayraktarov? I won't. Next is Mrs. Grozdanova's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u60	Madam President, honourable Members! Although the Foreign Commission report dates back to December 2014, it sounds quite up-to-date. I would like to say a few things on the substance of the terms of the sanctions currently in force. In June 2015, the Foreign Affairs Council extended the duration of the targeted and sectoral sanctions against the Russian Federation until 31 December 2016. The deadlines for implementation of the Minsk arrangements of Minsk 2 were 31 December 2015. After seeing what would happen to the implementation of the Minsk arrangements, of course that the European Union and the European Council would review the sanctions against the Russian Federation. We have borne our price.. both Bulgaria and the European Union, as well as the Russian Federation in turn. I would like to say that during the discussions on imposing restrictive measures against Russia at all levels in Brussels, during the meetings of COREPER II of the Permanent Representatives, Bulgaria has always had a balanced and moderate position against sanctions against the Russian Federation, the European Union has taken into account both the national interest and the interest of the European Union as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u61	- What's the line? Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u62	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleague, the problem is that the facts disprove what is declared here as interests of the European Union and of Bulgaria, as any literate person can draw statistics on how the trade and investment of the European Union are changing with Russia or, for example, Germany. Ladies and gentlemen, while we are here disbanded by political contradictions, contrary to the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria, the other leading countries and peoples of the European Union trade, increase their trade and investment, increase their flow of gas, at the expense of countries such as Bulgaria, who obediently follow recommendations that they themselves do not comply with. To be specific, Germany's exports to Russia increased, dear friends, from 36 billion 2013 to 38 billion. 429 by Eurostat... first. Secondly, the exports of the Federal Republic of Germany to Russia are growing in machinery and equipment, chasing the levels from the former Soviet Union. Thirdly, by 20% the exports of passenger cars from Germany to Russia are growing, while they talk one about sanctions, but they are making others economic. It was said by colleagues and you saw that the flow of natural gas from Russia to Germany doubled from 55 billion, the two pipes now, but two more tubes 2019. I'm talking about 110 billion. So, we need to stop the South Stream project, to diversify, because if the European Union's pipe comes out in Varna is a tragedy, but if it goes through an area where arms and legs are flying in the air from bombs over Turkey, it will be diversified. While we here are cutting off projects, the Germans are practically preparing two more tubes and wondering at the Bulgarian mind. We are here to defend the interests of the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian producers, so in Europe they say one thing and the money flies in another direction at the expense of our producers. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u63	Second line? Mr. Enchev. Mr. Enchev, I am given a sign that you have spent your time from the five minutes in your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u64	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u65	Another MP who wants to replicate? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u66	Madam President, as much as we tried by the National Assembly not to join the election campaign during this period, we may not succeed. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Gechev, see how things are going between Russia and Turkey and then give examples. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] And about Germany's economy... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] The scale of the economy of Germany and Bulgaria cannot be compared.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u67	Colleagues on the left, I don't hear Mrs. Grozdanova here, I don't know how the other part of the room is, thanks to your lines from the place.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u69	To speak, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will not go back in time - everything is said, everything is explained. Whoever wanted to hear, heard who wanted to know, understood. Obviously, there is a political group that will continue to repeat as a broken record the same because of the lack of obviously other ideas to make it interesting for voters. In an extremely complex environment, the government of Plamen Oresharski managed to conduct a balanced policy recognised by our Russian partners and to protect the Bulgarian national interest as much as possible. However, comparing the situation in the spring of 2014 with the situation in December, when we tabled this proposal, even more so now, is the least I would call inadequate. We should note that in the changing international environment, in the changing situation it is logical that Bulgarian positions should change. Today, I would rather talk to my colleagues from the centre and from the right, because I believe that the proposal tabled by BSP's parliamentary group left Bulgaria is adequate and balanced and will not lead to a situation where Bulgaria looks like a country that comes out of the European consensus. I believe and must admit that the economic sanctions imposed on the Russian Federation did not result in the outcome that was expected. If today we have an improved security environment in Eastern Ukraine, it is not the result of the sanctions, but as a result of the enhanced political dialogue, which despite the sanctions was implemented by several member states of the European Union, and the leadership of the Russian Federation. What we are proposing is, in fact, Bulgaria as one of the countries which, from the very beginning of the crisis, have a balanced position, and together with this, is a country which is experiencing severe difficulties and losses as a result of sanctions and counter-scannings, to try to propose a plan for a phase-out of these sanctions, a plan to be discussed in the Council on External Relations of the European Union, and together with this to seek a version of an arrangement with the Russian Federation. That doesn't mean tomorrow, but it means starting a trial like this. We need to be aware of reality. To date, many of the member states, many of the leaders of the member states, raise this issue. It is surprising to me that no one officially takes the initiative that we are proposing today to launch as a policy. Secondly, the proposal to drop sanctions against parliamentarians of the Russian Federation is more than logical because in a tense situation parliamentary diplomacy is much more free. Unfortunately, in recent months, including which two other governments have managed the service of Bliznashki and now the government led by Boyko Borisov, additional representatives of parliament have been introduced to the Word of the Russian Federation and the Federation Council, respectively, into this blacklist, which has effectively significantly limited the possibilities for parliamentary dialogue. We think it's counterproductive. If we are objective, I do not know if you will vote on it, but I am convinced colleagues from GERB that you also understand that this is a wrong policy and it does not lead to the result that the European Union wants to achieve with these measures. After all, you will vote on your proposal, but I must express regret that, despite our numerous attempts to bring this topic into the National Assembly, four or five so far, you have refused this debate. I think we're setting a good foundation today. Even as I suspect, even if you oppose this proposal, we are starting a relatively meaningful discussion on these issues and I hope that even if it is rejected, it will have its continuation and the signal will be heard in the Bulgarian government as well. Regardless of the decision today, the Bulgarian foreign minister and the Bulgarian prime minister will take this discussion into account and will make it possible to take a more adequate position in the coming weeks and months when the international environment is significantly changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u71	Any lines to Mr. Vigenin? I won't. To speak, Mr. Martin Dimitrov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the debate is deliberately sliding along the surface and the most important question is avoided why these sanctions were imposed. Why are there sanctions against Russia? What has happened that the entire European Union, which has had excellent relations with Russia for many years, has imposed these sanctions? What happened? Something extremely important happened in the 21st century. There was Russian aggression in Crimea. That's what this is about. [[Attack's line]] . There was Russian aggression in Crimea.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u73	There was a referendum!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u74	It can also be held in other countries. God forbid, there could be such a referendum in Bulgaria... [[Strength noise in BSP LB and attack.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u75	Colleagues, please! You'll have the opportunity to say a few lines. Let's hear from Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u76	This cannot become a reason to redefine borders in the 21st century! And I wonder to my colleagues who want to drop the sanctions. Colleagues of the BSP, do you propose that Russia leave Crimea and restore the contracts it has signed? Is that what you're suggesting? I don't think you're offering it by looking at you and listening to you. I don't think that's what you're suggesting. I've heard a lot of other things you're proposing, but that's not what you're suggesting. I'll tell you this. If Bulgaria now declares itself against the sanctions of the European Union, we will fulfill the role of a Trojan horse of the European Union. As a Russian diplomat said, Bulgaria has long voted for this role and I have long seen that there are people, there are parties who are trying to play this role. But what is the most important question? If, in the 21st century, we allow, we keep silent and hide behind forcibly redecorating the borders of other countries, yet I say, God forbid, there is no telling what can happen tomorrow, what we have legalized and what we have not opposed. Russia shall sign international treaties guaranteeing Ukraine's integrity. You know very well. There are specially signed international contracts. They have subsequently been violated, with or without a referendum, which, ladies and gentlemen, for people who are Democrats, for people who are pacifists, for people who respect their signature, you should say: "Yes, dropping sanctions, yes, dropping sanctions immediately if Russia withdraws from Ukraine and restores Ukraine's justice and territorial borders if it withdraws from Crimea. That's what I'm talking about! That's what I'm talking about! [[Noise in BSP LB and "Attack."]] Don't tell me, colleagues: The people asked for this because I told you that a referendum could be made anywhere and the people didn't know what to ask for. Note that for me this referendum was manipulated and led to results that do not reflect reality. Ladies and gentlemen, what should Bulgaria follow? Bulgaria must follow international treaties and must not deviate from the European Union's position. Because if today we decide to vote and someone votes the position of BSP, tomorrow there may be a referendum in another country. A redesign of the next border may be requested. I ask you, will the Kremlin stop here if the sanctions are removed now if they are told that everything is okay? Will the Kremlin stop here? Would he not decide to make a referendum in another country, somewhere else, and decide to re-create a new border in the 21st century? This is extremely dangerous. The sanctions must therefore be held for long enough to understand also the people of the Kremlin that the European Union, that the Democrats in the European Union and around the world do not accept this violent, aggressive transmutation of borders in the 21st century, that international treaties must be respected and respected. That's what it's all about at the end of the day. And it's a little embarrassing, I'd say, fellow BSPs, to get up and talk about sanctions against Russia, and nobody to mention what you're proposing to happen to the Kremlin. I call you on such great speakers you have in the group, say what you propose. Because obviously what you're proposing, you're not saying it out loud, is to preserve the current situation. In fact, BSP says the following: In terms of the Kremlin to preserve the current situation, to remain the violation of international treaties, that is to say to become part of the Russian Federation and to remove sanctions. This suggests, in fact, BSP, but does not say it directly, but indirectly, from a distance, from a distance, to get their position more polite and diplomatic, but in fact ultimately they offer this. [[Attack's block loud.]] The European Union, colleagues, is a community of rules, a community of treaties. If we now allow such a drastic violation of international treaties and close our eyes, tomorrow others may turn a blind eye to us when we ask for help on a particular occasion or question. Therefore, one must be principled, especially Parliament must be principled and must respect what is signed, and not allow especially in the 21st century, the forceful transmutation of territorial borders. [[Replys and shouts by "Attacka."]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u77	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u78	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you were extremely principled in your speech that international treaties should be respected. As you are so principled to the rules of the European Union, let's call on Turkey to release Cyprus; let's call on the Kosovars to give Pristina to Serbia! Shall I go on?! [[RB lines.]] If you're so principled, come out and say it from this tribune, offer and the colleagues here will support it. Have you forgotten that Cyprus is still a country of the European Union? Do not underestimate that the referendum is also a volition of the population in a particular territory. Perhaps tomorrow you will refuse, if there is a referendum in Macedonia, to join Bulgaria?! Stand up and say it from this stand. And the questions you asked, ask Mrs. Victoria Newland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u79	Second line, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u80	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I have watched live events in Odessa; I have watched Jarosh's thugs become indecent; I have personally watched the leader of the events in Maidana shoot people with a small gun jumping from the burning windows and with what complacent. Why do you deny the right of these Orthodox people living in Rome [[crowd cheering and speaking indistinctly]] In Crimea... Okay, that's what you can laugh at, the other one you're not saying. That's what you're laughing at! [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] Atanasov, come up to see you! [[crowd cheering in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u81	Colleagues, please no verbal fights outside the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Bojinov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u82	Madam President, I'm taking this seriously. When this people ignored an international treaty that separated the flesh of some people from a nation, as Bulgaria was divided and the Bulgarians on both sides of September 6th joined together and no one dared to challenge this date, something similar happened in Crimea as well. Join a nation of your own free will. Mr. Dimitrov, when you think so about sovereignty, what about the sovereignty of three countries where statehood has been violently destroyed, where a territory has been annexed to permanent military conflicts that serve the interests of a country where you serve? Where are your two arches? Why don't you think the same way about destroying the countries in North Africa?! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Answer me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u83	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I will try to bring the debate back on the specific subject we are discussing. I'm afraid fairly fair notes of past events are not going to help us today. Mr. Dimitrov, I still have the feeling that somehow you are frozen on March 2014. To date, even the European Union does not bind sanctions to the situation in Crimea, but binds sanctions to the implementation of the Minsk agreements, which, by the way, are already progressing. I don't think we should be the most loyal and afraid of ghosts, like someone would call us a Trojan horse. I think it's an expression of deep complexes that it's time to get rid of. Let us focus on the Bulgarian national interest and show more flexibility when possible and when necessary. I think that a country such as ours, which has limited resources and opportunities, should have more active diplomacy and more capable of defending its national interest without waiting for the urging or recommendations of the large partners from Western Europe or overseas. Because even now, with your government, there have been several cases in which our partners have shown greater flexibility, and we rightfully hung ourselves with positions with which we have become ridiculous in Europe, I would say, in the world as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u85	A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u86	Madam President, thank you for the lines that have tried to be specific. A question was asked, namely, I would add it: who actually organised the referendum in Crimea, ladies and gentlemen? Who organized this?! [[Replying and shouting from BSP LB.]] I would like to remind you of a UN resolution No 68/262 in which this referendum is in practice declared invalid, that is, there is a UN resolution which clearly states its opinion on the approach to dividing Ukraine's territorial integrity. It's a matter of principle and seriousness. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the arguments have become clear. It also became clear what the BSP suggested. BSP says so: "Forget Crimea, it remains Russian territory." Even though there were international treaties. They say: "What if there were international treaties?This was in the distant year 2014 and Mr. Vigenin told us. This was in the distant 2014 so forget Crimea. It remains Russian territory, now let the sanctions against Russia be removed. I wish BSP protected Bulgarian interests when it came to gas supplies to Bulgaria. They signed the most expensive prices for all these years, the highest prices were in their time. I wish BSP protected the Bulgarian interest when it was for the interest of Bulgarian citizens and not the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u87	Show signed contracts. Bakardzhiev from BSP?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u88	What I regret is that BSP protects Russia's interests more than... [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u89	Colleagues, do you think you can hear something in the room from your calls like that?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u90	BSP protects Russia's interests more than Bulgaria's interests. That's the pathetic thing about the whole thing. You must protect the interests of the Bulgarians, ladies and gentlemen, and not worry about what sanctions and why they are imposed on Russia. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] After all, these sanctions are fair. They were imposed because of something unheard of in the 21st century "the aggression in Crimea." Ladies and gentlemen, the position of Bulgaria must be part of the position of the European Union. While the European Union imposes sanctions, Bulgaria should also be part of this position. Anything else would actually be the position of the Trojan Horse. We know that there are colleagues, including in this Chamber, who have mastered this position a long time ago, we know about it. This is a reason for me to vote strongly against the BSP proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u91	To speak, Mr. Chukolov. After him Mr. Peter Kanev, after him Mr. Ayhan Etem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will make an editorial amendment in the text that BSP colleagues propose. Before that, I just want to tell you that when we from Ataka offered to recognise the referendum in Crimea, then BSP, DPS and GERB refused this to happen. What Mr. Dimitrov says about Crimea is that we, the leadership of the "Attack" and many of the MPs, were in Crimea, in Simferopol, in Sevastopol, in Yalta and we know perfectly well what the people there think. I'm telling you first person. Madam President, I am proposing a change of the point. 2 of the text imported from BSP for the following reason. Colleagues there mention a phased suspension of sanctions. In our opinion, from "Attack" this should happen as soon as possible. We suggest the following text. Point 2 to acquire the following species: "2." Instructs the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov and the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Daniel Mitov to express at the first meeting of the Council of the European Union on foreign policy, as well as the Council of the European Union at the level of prime ministers, the official state position to repeal the restrictive measures against the Russian Federation. I hope you put this to the vote. I also hope that BSP colleagues will support it. We have nothing to spare the government of Boyko Borisov. He must comply with what the Bulgarian people want.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u93	Thank you. Could you give me the proposal in writing because I couldn't write it all down? [[The National Representative Desislav Chukolov submitted the proposal to the President.]] You read it one to one?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u94	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u95	Any lines to Mr. Chukolov? I won't. Mr. Kanev. [[The National Representative Petar Kanev wants an extension of time.]] Extend the time of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u96	My fellow Members, I can hardly reach the emotional levels of my fellow Members who have spoken before me. Emotions prevailed quite a bit in this debate. I don't want to get into his political part. We all know very well that when it comes to politics and sanctions, it is about money and it is about a lot of money. I begin by not going into a debate with colleagues from the other political forces, colleagues from political forces, for whom love for Russia has become a profession, but for some of its leaders as well as a livelihood. [[Happy tidings.]] But I want to tell you that we're still acting like an ostrich in this whole position. On 15 May 2015 I had a question to Minister Lukarski: why is the Bulgarian-Russian Mixed Economic Commission not meeting? Then I repeated again that Bulgaria will lose completely the sanctions, unlike all those who in Brussels are shouting against Russia. You've heard the data on Germany. I will now tell you one more thing: 18% increase in trade between Russia and the United States of America. You yourselves understand that as long as our goods stand in Bulgaria, we cannot sell them, we cannot release them, the goods of many European countries have shifted us from the markets. The machine building of Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovenia and Slovakia sell, so they break. Austria is leading an incredibly flexible policy, not to mention Hungary and Greece. You understand that when we are political on the subject of Krim, North Cyprus, Kosovo and so on, people sell their goods and conquer their markets. We keep acting like we don't know who we are. It's ridiculous what we do! My question is: what happened to the Bulgarian-Russian Commission? From this tribune, Lukarski told me that October will be a meeting. As you can see, it's nothing. On top of that, we are the only country that has two co-chairs of this Commission, the Minister of Energy and the Minister of Economy. We haven't been able to identify a minister in charge of them for a year. What are we losing? Yesterday, a figure came out. That's all you can catch. Only for last month - August, 30 000 Russians less in Bulgaria. Is that enough? It's kind of at first sight. 10 nights, an average of 9.8 nights per Russian person has 300,000 nights in Bulgaria. Put in that the Russians are our most paying customers. There are many colleagues from Burgas and Varna. These are the people who spend it. I'm very sorry, I don't mean to offend the solvency of German and English tourists, but we're losing some people who spend and spend well. Not to mention the dumping that the European Union made us, not to mention the other losses on direct exports. We continue to focus on emotions, we continue to talk about policies. I was in Moscow a month ago, I had a meeting on another line, at an economic conference with Aksakov, chairman of their Committee on Economics and Tourism of Goss the Word. There are currently seven countries preparing mixed Russian-in-the-country committees. Two of them are members of the European Union. Three members of the European Union do not make them as committees, but make themselves whole meetings of the relevant ministers with their subordinate portfolios in Moscow or vice versa. I'm very sorry, but we're still acting like the one I told a few years ago about the fish in the aquarium. We are constantly rediscovering the world and constantly everything for us is new and constantly losing money. Ten years ago, I was telling the story of Martin Dimitrov right here, if I recall, on the occasion of a budget. It's been proven that the fish remembers six seconds, and she's been going around the aquarium for seven seconds, and every seven seconds everything was new, interesting and beautiful in her life. I'm done. I just want to tell you that some great memories of Simeon Radev came out 50 years after his death. Authors, by the way, are Krasi Karakachanov and Tsacho Bilyarski. Read them. There are generally all interesting events from the Grand National Assembly to the thirty-something year. Almost nothing new about fighting, fighting and losing markets, losing friends, Russophile and Russophobicism, one to one repeats itself. Once again, I regret not being as emotional as my colleagues, but this is not my profession.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u97	- What's the line? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kanev, I agree with your line in one thing only that we must not succumb to emotions. However, I do not agree that things are not said in all their truths and facts. I cannot understand why everyone is not telling a very important fact and it is supported by an Agreement between Bulgaria and Russia signed in 2009 and started operating in February 2010. This is the so-called Agreement. Russia should start paying Russian pensions to the Bulgarians who worked in the territory of the former Soviet Union. Hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians continue to be harmed by the Russian side. Hundreds of thousands! These are millions of resources that should enter Bulgaria and it, notice, by paying pensions. Pensions! However, everyone is silent on this matter. There's a bunch of yahoos going on. Now, November, next meeting is coming, and our Bulgarian workers who have worked honestly and honestly never received their pensions, although this agreement has been in operation for five years. Five years! That's why I said: let's learn to protect our Bulgarian interest! That's the truth!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u99	Second line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u100	Dear Mr. Kanev, between what you and your BSP colleagues say, there is a significant difference because you say so: and at the moment, in the event of sanctions for Russia, many European countries increase their trade with the Russian Federation. Of course, let's do it! That is, beyond sanctions, where there is an opportunity, of course, to develop the best trade relations with Russia. That's okay, and we have to make it compulsory. I agree with you here. This is a field of work that needs to be used. Because Germany increases its trade with Russia, but does not violate the sanctions imposed. You can count on it. Austria, too. So Bulgaria should follow this approach. It is pragmatic and simultaneously preserves sanctions, simultaneously allowing for development of trade. This is the sensible approach and I believe that the approach of the current government, of course. While your colleagues want another one, they want to recognise the referendum that the UN does not recognise; they want Bulgaria to become one of the first countries to ask for sanctions to be dropped in the European Union. They want very different things, Mr. Kanev. So don't mix the two notions. I'm here for yours. You say outside the sanctions to develop trade with the Russian Federation. Of course, as other Member States of the European Union do. This is what we should do outside the sanctions, not be the first country in the European Union to ask for a suspension immediately or whether it is staged on the sanctions imposed because of the aggression in Crimea of the Russian Federation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u101	Third line? I won't. Mr. Kanev, the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u102	One of my colleagues before me was absolutely right.. Four and a half years we do not have a joint committee! For five years we have also signed a pension contract for our employees and workers who have worked. That's why I'm insisting that we don't act like we're interested in sanctions, but that we get into negotiations and start talking and debate. We can't pretend we don't notice what's going on. As far as the Bulgarian interests are concerned, I once again want to tell you a very big politician had said it. He has no eternal friends, he has eternal interests. I'm afraid in this whole situation, and somewhere in this mess, we're losing our interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u103	Speaking of which, Mr. Ayhan Etem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have observed with interest the debate held on the dropout, or rather the reduction and placing of a new plane of sanctions against the Russian Federation. I will not be tempted to make my speech or to take part in this debate as a person of interest or as a person of interest, I will rather do so as a realist. The truth is, honourable Members, that these sanctions against the Russian Federation were not introduced because of the appeasement of any political line, state or ideology. The truth is that there is a problem and these sanctions have been introduced as a reciprocal measure, let us say, of the crisis in Ukraine. Let's just say that in the 21st century the territorial integrity of a sovereign state was violated, to which we could not be idle because the Bulgarian nation after totalitarian regime had made its valuable and civilization choice, namely through the integration of the Republic of Bulgaria into Euro-Atlantic structures. I understand that some part of this Chamber does not accept and would love Bulgaria to revise this choice, but we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms stand behind this civilisational choice of our country and will not support the proposal made against these facts which I will now list. Dear colleagues, the reality is that we are part of the European Union, of the European community. This decision to introduce sanctions was a collective decision of the representation of the European Union and the European Commission. I cannot understand, since the facts which contributed to the introduction of these sanctions against the Russian Federation have not dropped, that we should speak and raise the issue of any revision of this EU policy. First, I suggest that we see several steps from the opposite side so that the territorial integrity of Ukraine and any other sovereign state in the 21st century can be restored. Because I don't wish for it, but this could become a mass practice in a number of other countries, which could affect us as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u105	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the House to vote. Group leaders, please gather your men. During the debate, an editorial proposal was made by Mr. Chukolov, who proposed instead. 2 in the draft decision of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs from BSP left Bulgaria the version to be: The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov and the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Daniel Mitov at the first meeting of the Council of the European Union on Foreign Policy, as well as the Council of the European Union at the level of prime ministers, expressed an official position for lifting the restrictive measures against the Russian Federation. I put to the vote Mr. Chukolov's proposal. They voted 125 MPs: 40, against 52, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a draft decision on the need to review the EU's sanctions policy on the conflict in Ukraine in the version of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs by importer. We are voting for the full version with the name of the decision. They voted 130 MPs: 52, against 47, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to the next point for today: FIRST READING OF THE PROJECT OF THE CODE OF CONSERVATION, No 502-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2015. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u106	Come in, Mrs. Saveklieva. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, I would first like to make a procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. On the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber by the Ministry of Finance: Faisy Bekir
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u108	Honourable Members, voting regime for access to this House. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to invite the designated persons from the relevant ministries. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u109	♪ I can't believe on a draft Insurance Code, No 502-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2015. At its regular meeting on 23 September 2015, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the draft Insurance Code. The meeting was attended by Karina Karaivanova - Deputy Minister of Finance, Ralitsa Agajin-Guuri The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Karina Karaivanova. She pointed out that the main objective of the draft Code on Insurance is the introduction into the Bulgarian legislation of the provisions of Directive 2009/138/EC on the start and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (Solvency II), as well as its subsequent amendments and additions, Directive 2002/92/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on insurance mediation, as amended and supplemented by Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on markets in financial instruments and Directive 2009/103/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on insurances and on liability for the use of motor vehicles and on the control of the obligation to conclude such insurance. In addition, it is proposed to improve the legal framework in order to better protect the interests of insurance users. Changes are also provided for on the distribution of insurance products, on the requirements for the activities of insurance intermediaries, and on the development of the insurance contract arrangements. The draft Insurance Code introduces a new regime for determining own funds requirements for the insurance and reinsurance undertaking and for calculating technical provisions. New principles for the investment of assets are laid down as a guarantee for financial stability and the fulfilment of obligations under insurance and reinsurance contracts. A new approach to carrying out the supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings is set out. The Authority should assess the risk profile of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking in terms of its market situation and possible risk of financial difficulties and determine the relevant supervisory measures that are appropriate to prevent the development of the identified risks. There is also a detailed regulatory framework for the supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings which are part of a group. The requirements of the insurance and reinsurance management system shall also be improved. Risk management, internal audit, compliance function and actuarial function shall be regulated. The level of consumer protection in relation to insurance claims shall be increased by introducing: - an obligation for the insurer to register the date of each claim lodged and the date of the subsequent receipt of each document under it and to certify each of those circumstances in writing to the person who claimed the claim; - a six-month period to rule in cases where all the necessary evidence has not been provided, except for the compulsory insurance, the liability of the motorists, where the period is three months; - time limits for settling claims on large-risk insurance such as there has not been before; - a new obligation for the insurer in the event of a complaint by an insurance user to provide it in writing within 7 days with a factual and legal justification of the amount of compensation fixed. In the case of distribution of insurance products, an obligation shall be provided: - each insurance agent, insurance broker, respectively, to set up an organisation to deal with complaints of users of insurance services; - each insurance intermediary to notify the insurance company concerned of the premium payment received on the day of payment; - the intermediary to transfer the premium or contribution received to the insurer no later than thirty days from the date of receipt of the premium, but on the compulsory insurance of the motorists and the compulsory insurance of the passengers in the means of public transport, no later than five days after receipt of the payment; - the authorisation to receive an insurance payment to take place with a notary certification of the signatures, and the power of attorney shall contain a text that the user has been informed that he is entitled to receive the relevant payment in person; - the insurer shall expressly and in writing notify the user of the exact amount of payment made to his representative. A new reason is provided for the deletion of the registration of an insurance intermediary when it does not pay, pays late by more than ten working days after the periods laid down in the Law or contract or pays partially required and liquid cash liabilities in relation to its activity as an insurance intermediary. Insurance undertakings shall not terminate insurance contracts on the basis of the absence of a premium paid when they have been notified of the payment by the insurance intermediary. The level of consumer protection of the insurance contract is increased by introducing: - a requirement for the insurance contract to determine clearly, unambiguously and comprehensively covered risks and exclusions from cover; - a prohibition on the insurance contract to provide conditions and requirements for the submission of documents or other evidence by the insurance service user or by public authorities which are not essential for proving the insurance event or for establishing the amount of damage, as well as such documents or evidence for which there is a legal or factual obstacle to providing it; - prohibition on the insurance contract to provide for conditions and requirements that are not relevant in relation to limiting the risk of the occurrence of the insurance event; - a prohibition on an insurance person refusing payment on the basis of a claim on the basis of circumstances which were in place before the date of the conclusion of the insurance contract; - a new period of limitation on the application of an insurance claim starting from the date of occurrence or from the knowledge of the deterioration of the health status of the injured person, which is in direct and immediate causal relationship with the occurrence of the insurance event; - a proposal for the term of limitation on the insurance of liability to run from the date of occurrence of the insurance event only in respect of the right of direct claim of the injured person to the insurance officer; - a new limitation period where the insured cause of the injury has prevented the injured person by own funds from the date of payment of the compensation by the cause of the injury; - the possibility of the insurance of assets at an agreed value which is a fixed amount in the contract to be paid in the event of the occurrence of the insurance event, without examining the amount of the actual damage caused or the actual costs of its removal. In the case of compulsory insurance, the liability of the motorists will be covered against a single premium for both the Republic of Bulgaria and the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area and for all countries that are members of the system. An extension of the coverage of insurance is also envisaged for cases where: - the driver is incapable; - the damage is caused by a vehicle device or installation; - the damage is caused to third parties as a direct consequence of opening the doors of a motor vehicle during driving or when the vehicle is stopped; - the damage was caused by a failure of the vehicle which caused a traffic accident; - the damage is caused during the movement of the vehicle as a result of deterioration of the health status of the driver resulting in an accident. Changes are also proposed in the provisions concerning the insolvency of the insurers by proposing that the role of the trade union be carried out by the Guarantee Fund. A levelling of guaranteed insurance claims in the event of life insurance insolvency is proposed with the amount of guaranteed deposits in the event of bank bankruptcy, providing for the Guarantee Fund to pay claims to all persons. During the discussion, the people's representative Kiril Tsochev said he would support the draft in the first vote, but between first and second reading he will make a proposal for the dropping of art. 381, which favours a certain group of debtors and therefore contradicts the Constitution. Written opinions in support of the bill were received by the Bulgarian Insurance Association, the Guarantee Fund and the Bulgarian Insurance Broker Association. In their written opinion of the Bulgarian Leasing Association, they offer a new version of art. 385 of the project by expressing disagreement with the proposed approach for the payment of damages and the envisaged prior written consent of the lessor with the terms of the insurance contract concluded between the lessor and the insurer. After presenting and discussing the draft Code of Insurance, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposed to the National Assembly that the draft Insurance Code, No 502-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. The report of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds will be heard at 12.00. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u111	Please, the Quaestors, invite your colleagues to the Chamber. We continue the meeting with the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds. The President of the Commission will introduce you to him the people representative Svetlin Tanchev. You have the floor, Mr. Tanchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! At its regular meeting held on 23 September 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined a draft Insurance Code submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2015. In the meeting of the Commission took part by the Ministry of Finance: Ms. Karina Karaivanova-Ganozova Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Tsvetanka Mihailova Executive Director of the Directorate of State Debt and Financial Markets and Mrs. Milena Dimitrova State Expert in the same Directorate; Mrs. Ralitsa Again Guri participated in the Financial Supervision Commission, Deputy Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, Head of the Management Board This project aims to introduce into our national legislation the provisions of Directive 2009/138/EC on the start-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (Solvency II) and its subsequent amendments and additions to Directives 2011/89/EU, 2012/23/EU, 2013/58/EU, 2014/51/EU. The draft Code also introduces the provisions of Directive 2002/92/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on insurance mediation, as amended and supplemented by Directive 2014/65/EU, as well as Directive 2009/103/EC on insurance for liability under motor vehicles and on control of the obligation to conclude such insurance. In addition, in addition to the transposition of the abovementioned Directives, the draft Code offers an improvement of the legal framework in order to better protect the interests and users of insurance services. It should be borne in mind that Directive 2009/138/EC is a framework and has been adopted by a number of regulations of the European Commission on its implementation and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority adopts guidelines and recommendations on the application of the new solvency II regime. In view of the above, the Code draft provides for a right of the Financial Supervision Commission to establish these guidelines and recommendations by means of regulations of the European Authority. Directive 2009/138/EC revises the existing directives governing the activities of insurers and reinsurance undertakings and introduces entirely new requirements for the financial situation of those persons. The transposition of this Directive also improves the requirements of the insurance and reinsurance management system. Risk management, internal audit, compliance function and actuarial function shall be regulated. The draft Code introduces a new regime for determining the own funds requirements of the insurance and reinsurance undertaking, for calculating technical provisions, as well as new principles for investing assets as a guarantee for financial stability and fulfilling obligations under insurance and reinsurance contracts. In order to comply with the provisions of the Directive (Solvency II) it is proposed to abolish the absolute prohibition on the acquisition of shares in an insurance or reinsurance undertaking with loans. Under the proposed regime, the acquisition by means of loan funds of qualifying interests will be subject to an assessment of the financial stability of the applicant for the acquisition of such participation. In addition, the draft Code introduces the notion of an insurance service user, which includes the insurance, insurance, third party, third injured person, other persons for whom insurance contract rights have arisen, as well as a natural or legal person. With regard to the compulsory liability of vehicles, it is proposed to provide for a single premium for both the coverage of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area and all the countries that are members of the system. Last but not least, in relation to the more precise transposition of the provisions of Directive 2009/103/EC, the minimum limit of liability for non-material and property damage resulting from bodily injury or death is proposed to change to 10 million. lv. for each event, regardless of the number of victims. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 11 votes for the Council of Ministers and 1 vote for the National Assembly to adopt a draft Insurance Code, No 502-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanchev. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce you to her Chairman Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe in the first vote on a draft Insurance Code, No 502-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2015. At its meeting held on 16 September 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed draft Insurance Code, No 502-01-75. The meeting was attended by: The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Ms. Karina Karaivanova Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Tsvetanka Mihaylova Executive Director of the Department of State Debt and Financial Markets and Ms. Milena Dimitrova State Expert in the Directorate of State Debt and Financial Markets and by the Financial Supervision Commission: Ms. Ralitsa Again-Guri Vice-President, Mrs. Veselina Mandadjieva Head of the Department of Private Judicial Contractors: Mr. Georgi Dichev Chairman, and Mr. Stoyan Yakimov Member of the Chamber; by Mrs. Antoaneta Dimolarova, Mr. Svet Nestorova, Mr. Orlin Penev, Mr. Konstantin Vjekova. The bill was presented by Ms. Karaivanova. The draft Insurance Code is an entirely new act introducing the requirements of Directive 2009/138/EC on the start and pursuit of the insurance and reinsurance business (Solvency II) and its subsequent amendments and additions to Directives 2011/89/EU, 2012/23/EU, 2013/59/EU and 2014/51/EU. Directive 2009/138/EC establishes a new framework for determining the own funds conditions for insurance and reinsurance undertakings depending on their risk profile and establishes requirements for carrying out risk-based supervision of their activities. The Directive improves the requirements for the management system of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, risk management functions, internal audit and actuarial standards. The draft Code introduces stricter requirements for the insurance company's document turnover as well as an obligation to provide information and periodic reports to the Financial Supervision Commission. An emphasis is placed on the provisions of the insurance contract by supplementing the arrangements of the insurance period through the possibility of concluding an unlimited insurance contract, of a multi-year insurance contract and of a contract for an insurance period shorter than one year. With regard to compulsory insurance, the requirement against a single premium is introduced to provide cover both within the Republic of Bulgaria and within the territory of the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area, and of the countries that are members of the system. The draft Insurance Code allows the contract for compulsory insurance to be concluded for a period of up to three years and provides for an extension of the liability of the insurance officer for certain cases where there is no fault of the driver. Ms. Karaivanova pointed out that the obligation to transpose Directive 2009/138/EC expired on 31 March 2015. In his opinion, the President of the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors Mr. Georgi Dichev expressed support for the bill, paying attention to the provision of art. 381 of the draft Insurance Code, according to which, after the entry into force of a judgment and the conviction of an insurance company to pay compensation, enforcement proceedings against it shall be prohibited until the insurer is invited to pay the voluntary award within 7 days of receipt of the invitation. According to him, this proposal derogates from the executive power of the judgment, it contradicts the principle that all debtors are equal and, if accepted, this exception could also be transferred to another round of debtors, such as municipalities, hospitals and socially weak citizens. People's representatives Petar Slavov, Yavor Notev, Desislava Atanasova and Danail Kirilov took part in the discussion. During the discussion, the MPs welcomed the efforts made in drafting the draft new Insurance Code and expressed their support for reorganising the relationship between insurance insurers and insurance users, as well as by codifying the rules governing the terms of the insurance contract. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 9 votes for the National Assembly, without the opposition of the Council of Ministers, proposed that the draft Insurance Code, No 502-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2015 be accepted by the National Assembly in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. There is yet another report from the Committee on Budget and Finance, which will introduce us to the people representative Krasen Krastev. There is no report from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the draft Insurance Code, No 502-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2015. At a meeting held on 24 September 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that draft Insurance Code. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Feyzi Bekir The draft of a new Insurance Code was presented by Mr. Fezi Bekir. The main objective of the project is the introduction into the Bulgarian legislation of the provisions of Directive 2009/138/EC on the initiation and operation of the insurance and reinsurance business (Solvency II Directive), as well as the improvement of the regulations for the regulation of existing contractual practices and better protection of the interests of users of insurance services. Some of the important changes are: 1. The introduction of a new regime for determining the own funds requirements of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, thereby ensuring that the risk of insolvency is reduced to 0,5 percent within a one-year period. This will create a guarantee for the interests of users of insurance services and for the financial stability of the market. In addition, the effective and prudent management of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, which will have an incentive to reduce and better manage their risk exposures, will be encouraged to maintain optimal levels of own funds to ensure their solvency. 2. A new risk-based approach is set up to carry out supervision of insurers and re-insurers. This means that the supervisory authority should assess the risk profile of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking from the point of view of its market situation and the possible risk of financial difficulties and determine the relevant supervisory measures that are appropriate to prevent the development of the identified risks, respectively the removal of existing infringements or weaknesses in the operation of the insurers/reinsurers. 3. The requirements of the insurance and reinsurance management system shall also be improved. Risk management, internal audit, compliance function and actuarial function shall be regulated. 4. It is envisaged to increase the requirements for the auditors of insurers and re-insurers in order to ensure the accuracy of their financial statements. It is proposed not to be an auditor of an insurance specialised audit firm if it or the registered auditors in it that will carry out the certification have failed to comply with the requirements of the Insurance Code and its implementing regulations, the Independent Financial Audit Act or the directly applicable provisions of European Union legislation, and this has been established by an act of entry into force or the persons have been withdrawn as an auditor or with the right to carry out independent financial audit of financial statements by a State or public organisation in Bulgaria or in another country, and if they have certified an incorrect report of an insurance or reinsurance company without having been reflected in the opinion expressed by the audit firm. 5. Changes are also proposed in the area of insolvency of the insurers by proposing that the role of a trade union be carried out by the Guarantee Fund. 6. A levelling of guaranteed insurance claims in the event of life insurance insolvency is proposed with the amount of guaranteed deposits in the event of bank bankruptcy. The Guarantee Fund is intended to pay claims to all persons in the event of life insurance bankruptcy, ensuring claims in one insurance company regardless of the number of claims of the authorised person and their amount up to BGN 196 000. In order to avoid risks to the state budget, the Guarantee Fund shall not be allowed to use State support in any form, with an obligation to use market risk management techniques such as the conclusion of a reinsurance contract. Due to the ongoing infringement procedures relating to the timely transposition by the Republic of Bulgaria of Directive 2009/138 EC and Directive 2014/518, it is necessary to adopt the proposal for a draft Insurance Code in a short time. After a discussion of the draft Insurance Code, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft Insurance Code No 502-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Krastev. On behalf of the importer for an opinion? I won't. I'm opening the debate. The People's Representative Lachezar Nikiforov has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u118	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the ABB Parliamentary Group, we express support for the initiative of the Council of Ministers to comply with our national legislation by transposing the provisions of the respective directives, because the draft new Insurance Code has been developed precisely in this direction. In full, the proposed changes are detailed, which will undoubtedly be in the interests of citizens and organisations and will improve the opportunities to protect their rights and achieve the rule of law. Therefore, the ABB Parliamentary Group will support the proposed project at first reading. However, along with these progressive improvements in the regime, some other amendments, which I pay serious attention to, first of all, the adoption of the provision of the envisaged new art. 381 in the Insurance Code Project would lead to a violation of a number of fundamental human rights. It contradicts the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The proposed norm creates a privilege in favour of insurers by introducing a temporary enforcement ban, which is without analogy to other entities. Therefore, from ABB between first and second readings we will propose that this text be removed, and if it does not fail, we will not support it. This view of us is not new. The same opinion stood before the leading Commission our representative Mr. Kiril Tsochev. Next, I express some reservations regarding the operation of art. 493 para. 1, t. 1 of the draft Insurance Code, where a change of the minimum amount of insurance is envisaged, the limit of liability for non-material and property damage, death or bodily damage to civil liability insurance and motor vehicles. The change in the minimum insurance amount is a discussion and importers should protect it because different opinions are heard in the expert circles. In conclusion, I will reiterate the position of the ABB Parliamentary Group.. We will support the proposed project at first reading, but we will propose art. 381 drop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u119	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikiforov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nikiforov, when is your group sincere or when is she telling the truth? Or is there some revolutionary process going on in the ABB Parliamentary Group?! I would like to remind you that it was with the voices of the ABB Parliamentary Group that we failed to break down the dark-headed art. 417 which authorises this immediate execution. It was your voices that allowed them to continue the violations of human rights. And I'm glad, God willing, you really must have realized this thing. Stenogram's a fact. You can check it out and see. That's what I was concerned about, and that's why I took the cue to be frank as a representative of your group's decision. I'll keep an eye on the member you requested. However, it would not exist if your group had supported the proposal of the Patriotic Front for dropping out of art. 417 of the Civil Procedure Code. I hope that when we submit this Bill again, then you will be honest again and support us so that we do not allow for human rights violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u122	Mr. Bajraktarov, in relation to what you have just said, I would like to point out that article. 417 of the GPC is a general legal rule, and the text in question that we are discussing at the moment is a special legal rule. It is known from Roman law that the.............................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikiforov. Come in for a speech, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the group that has tried to work out a bill with a volume of over 600 pages. I think there are many useful things, but there is no serious analysis leading to justice in terms of insurance. I will draw attention to a moment which concerns the Bulgarian public. It is related to the so-called insurance of civil liability. At this time, and on the proposals of the submitted Bill, there is actually an injustice. It is about the right guides who actually pay for the violations committed by the irregular drivers. What do I mean? It is high time to do an analysis and assess, to decide whether we will insure or insure the drivers, and they are the ones who carry the risk. I'm setting an example. It is not the same driver with 20 years of experience and without violations and one just received a driving licence. They are carriers of a different risk in terms of degree and manner of participation in road traffic. Does the question have to be differentiation? When we talk about faulty leaders, relapses, jigiti, as many media, including senior executives in the country, what kind of insurance should they pay? With this Bill, and under the current Code, we insure cars, but in no way can anyone tell in this car what kind of driver will go up. We're missing this analysis here. It is not so complicated, when interacting with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, each driver has a file, for each driver is known how many years he has been a driver, what violations he has committed and therefore this risk to be entrusted with an insurance type. Moreover, even in this way, regulation from the point of view of traffic can be achieved, because many of the irregular drivers can even be obliged with high insurance values and amounts and can be refused at all to take part in traffic along the road, to protect people from traffic accidents. The other moment, which is extremely important, people who understand this matter know that insurance is subject to an old profession closely linked to direct marketing. However, this method of operation of insurance companies leads to a high relative share in the insurance policy, namely more than 30% of this cost being paid to the so-called insurance agents. These insurance agents, in order to be stimulated to work, usually receive between 30 and 40% of the amount of the insurance policy. The question arises: is the cost of this insurance policy real then, or does one huge part of that money go to the gray sector? The question arises: is it appropriate for these persons to be self-serving, or should they be employed under employment contracts, to import the relevant taxes, social security and, most importantly, to be officials to be responsible? These issues are also not regulated in the Code. The old vicious practice continues. In other words, with this Insurance Code, we will continue to stimulate a gray economy, income evasion, tax evasion, and it, notice, which represents 30 " 40% of the value of the insurance policy in question. These are the two big questions that I want to raise today. I'd be happy if one of the importers came out and answered these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Martin Dimitrov. Are there any other requests for speeches? Mr. Peter Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u126	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! A serious work has been cast to develop changes to the Insurance Code, so I will support it at first reading. Settlement or improvement of the solvency of insurance companies is one of the main highlights. The other main focus is to clarify the situations in which the company may not pay, that is, the explicit clarification of these situations, which is important and caused cases in the past. However, there is one issue with which we are going back and which is categorically unacceptable in the changes that have been made. I'd ask the importers who was his author? It is the possibility that online insurances can be concluded at a distance. In a situation where Bulgaria is building an electronic government, we are talking about electronic services, about e-government, we will even make a referendum, honourable ladies and gentlemen, which will enable Bulgarians abroad to vote electronically; a situation in which there is a European Directive 2002/65 of the European Community in which it is clear to say: 'Because of its intangible nature, financial services are particularly suitable for remote sales and the establishment of a legal framework governing the remote trade of financial services should increase consumer confidence in the use of new techniques for remote trade of financial services, such as e-commerce, it is a clear European trend. I support the conclusion of long-distance contracts not only because it is a matter of European practice. This is a serious convenience from the home computer a person enters into the necessary insurance contracts. All of this is offered to drop out and is told to every Bulgarian citizen: "There is no longer a distance contract, you have to go to an insurance broker and make a contract on the spot. If where you live there is no such broker, nothing, you will still find; if you have to go to another city, but you have to find one and thus conclude your contract. This is absolutely unacceptable. It is also unacceptable and unnecessary to certify the conclusion of insurance with a sticker. Yesterday I was at an insurance conference, unfortunately, I didn't see any other colleagues of mine. There it became clear that one such sticker cost $40. Until now, this conference has been claimed, and I accept that it is true that 50 million have been issued. the sticker. $40, that's $70 million. lv. Thrown in the wind, if you ask me. Whether or not a car has made a vehicle of responsibility, this is checked with the vehicle's license plate. The police are given special device-tablets where the vehicle number is entered and elementary is checked there is or does not have a committed responsibility. In this situation, there is no reasonable logic with these changes to give up the long-distance contracts. There is no reason for us to make all Bulgarian citizens look for a broker, to go to him for responsibility. If you want to purely economically look at things, removing a channel for insurance costs the price at the very least. For all Bulgarian citizens who live in the village and in most villages there are no insurance brokers, honourable colleagues, as you are aware, we will make these people get on the car and look for nearby settlements, agents, brokers to conclude the insurance. If Bulgarian citizens ask us, we do not know a person from the Bulgarian parliament who does not build e-government, I do not know one, only for colleagues from Ataka. I am not sure. I don't know a MP who doesn't build electronic government and electronic services. That is, we promise people a book, and we actually say to them, "So far you have had the opportunity to remotely conclude contracts, now here, without much motive, it will be taken away from you. At this conference, I asked someone to answer me, as I told you, yesterday I was at an insurance conference. Why cancel the long-distance contracts? There was no answer. No one could answer that question, but they asked me another question. They said to me, "Ask, Mr. Dimitrov, who gives out these stickers?" I ask: "Who gives out the stickers in question?" If anyone could answer that question, it would be helpful. That's what I was told yesterday. Colleagues, at last, between first and second readings, I will propose restoring what we have achieved so far: to have contracts on the Internet; to have contracts at a distance; to follow good European practice; not to make people have more complications in concluding these insurances; not to harass them unduly. I hope you'll support me. Now, I would love if one of the people who wrote generally good changes happened and explained to us: why has he decided in the years in which Europe and Bulgaria are building an electronic government to introduce an additional absolutely unnecessary paperwork? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u127	Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? I won't. To speak, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u128	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I take the floor for a brief statement. Some of the things from the Patriotic Front have affected them partially, but let them say once more, because in recent days we have been talking a lot about how to deal with the jigs on the road, with the unscrupulous drivers. I suggest now that we use the occasion of the Insurance Code and talk about how to encourage conscientious drivers to really receive the so-called "bonus" or a bonus for their good conduct. It is about what is advocated in the Code and is referred to as the system "Bonus-Malus" which is the system that encourages those drivers who do not have a violation over the years to pay a lower premium under the liability and vice versa those who behave as jigiti, who are really constantly making white, accidents and damage, while paying significantly higher premiums under the liability. Indeed, in this Code this thing is signed for the first time and the creation of the information system for this..Bonus-Malus-system, so that it can work. There are other things that are necessary. It is said that there will also have to be a legislative act, meaning the process will not be as fast. I really call on you to make our best efforts to make this system happen and to make this thing really work, as it is in European countries where honest road drivers are encouraged, and to sanction those who break the rules and cause accidents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u129	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, guests! Does it have to have stickers? It's a fundamental question. Why should there be Banderols, why should there be stickers, why should we put on the notes, whether they are guaranteed or everyone can make them at home? There must be stickers. The second question: how much are they worth and who printed them? It's the life-reporting theme. You don't have printers, it's a big problem. Just assume we're buying them from overseas. We're buying. Nobody's gonna give us a present. We still have to pay them. Accept that no one can make them in Bulgaria. Well, then we go abroad, we buy them. They have to be worth, they have to be in the proper order like fiscal documents, they have to be done, they have to be distributed. The problem exists no matter where they come from. They go to the relevant office and are distributed from there. Whether they will come by mail from abroad, but will be paid if they will come from BNB, but will be paid if they will come from another printing house because BNB is concerned with printing banknotes and making large emissions and large profits. We are currently trying to distribute a business that is the least of our concern, the least of our interests. However, whoever declared the stickers, wherever they are, declared them by type, volume, price, and when all of this is clarified, the other is dismissed. However, if you find someone who has everything else arranged, but you have to print stickers somewhere or buy them from somewhere, make it clear, and not ask questions should there be stickers in Bulgaria, whether on identity documents, or on banknotes, or on banderoles, or as a guarantee that the insurance you paid for it actually exists and is paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u131	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Slavov? You won't use it. Are there any other MPs who wish to take part in the debate? The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I invite the Members of the National Assembly to exercise their right to vote. I put to the first vote the draft Code of Insurance with the Importer Council of Ministers. 88 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Next item: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE SUPERVISION AND THE BEAUTIFULS. There has been a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mrs. Alexandrova will introduce him to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u132	Thank you, Madam President. First procedure: on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I make procedure for admission in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Krasimir Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u133	Voting regime, fellow Members. Vote 87 MPs: 86 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Invite Mr. Tzipov to the gym, please. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 502-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015. At its meeting on 24 September 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 502-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, Mrs. Iva Zaharieva, Head of Sector at the Directorate of the Ministry of International Cooperation and Mrs. Anastasia Petkanova, Senior Legal Consultant at the Department of Legal and Normal Activities and Mrs. Ljubomila Stanislavova, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior; from the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers: Mr. Alexander Dimitrov, Vice-President and Mrs. Kalina Popaneeva, Chief Jurissult. The bill was presented by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov. The Law introduces the requirements of Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection. The grounds for manifest unfounded of the application for international protection shall be updated and the time limit for taking a decision on the application shall be extended and the purpose shall be to ensure that it is fully examined. The rights of persons seeking protection, in particular on their access to legal aid and procedural information, meetings with legal advisors or consultants, and access to information collected during the examination of the application for international protection relevant for decision. The proposed Draft introduces an obligation to ensure effective access of representatives of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Government and Non-governmental Organizations, Lawyers and Legal Aids and Advice to foreigners seeking protection, regardless of where they are located at the border crossing, in a transit area, in detention places or in accommodation homes. The bill introduces the time limits laid down in the directive for the registration of the application for international protection and the ruling on it and optimises the process for examining applications. With the adoption of the bill, Bulgaria will fulfil its commitment to introducing the common standards defined in the process of building the Common European Asylum System with strict respect for fundamental rights. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hristian Mitev, Danail Kirilov and Chavdar Georgiev. In the course of the discussion, the people presented their principled support to the Bill and raised some questions. In response to the questions asked by Mr. Mitev and Mr. Georgiev whether there is a relevance between the draft and the previous draft on the same topic and whether the draft in question is related to the creation of a new refugee centre, Mr. Tsypov pointed out that the two draft laws introduce the requirements of different directives, and with regard to the registration centre that the proposed draft is not relevant to it. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, with no opposition, and 1 vote abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 502-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u135	Following is the report by the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mr. Tanchev, let us know the opinion of your committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u136	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Asylum and Refugees Act, No 502-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015. At a meeting held on 30 September 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined a bill amending and supplementing the Asylum and Refugees Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, Mrs. Anastasia Petkanova, Chief Legal Consultant at the Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities at the Ministry of Interior, Mrs. Branimira Klisurska - Legal Consult at the Directorate of European Union and International Cooperation at the Ministry of Interior, as well as Mr. Dimitar Kirov - Head of Department of the Directorate of International Protection at the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers. This Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees (WITH) aims to transpose the provisions of Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection. Directive 2013/32/EU repeals Council Directive 2005/85/EC of 1 December 2005 on minimum standards for the procedure for granting or withdrawing refugee status in Member States and its main objective is to contribute to the establishment of a common asylum procedure in the EU. This, in turn, should result in limiting the secondary movement of applicants when it is due to differences in the legal framework in individual EU Member States. The proposed amendments to the Law provide for an update of the grounds for manifest unfoundedness of the application and an extension of the time-limit for taking a decision in the framework of an accelerated procedure, as well as grounds for inadmissible subsequent applications by foreigners seeking international protection. In addition, the bill aims to guarantee the right of access to asylum seekers to representatives of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR), government and non-governmental organisations, lawyers and persons providing legal assistance and advice, regardless of where the foreigners are located, in a transit area, in detention places or in housing homes. The bill provides for information on how to apply for international protection, the procedures that follow and the consequences thereof to be provided to persons seeking protection. With regard to the duration, the bill introduces the time limits laid down in the directive for the application to be filed within 3 working days if it is submitted to the authorities of the State Agency for Refugees or within 6 days if it is submitted to another body, as well as a decision on the application within 6 months, and in specified circumstances that period may be extended. The draft law aims to optimize the process of examining applications by repealing the practice of compulsory proceedings for the designation of the Member State responsible for examining the application for international protection. An annulment of Article 2 shall also be envisaged. 96 and 97 of the FDA on the definition of lists of safe countries, the so-called imperative provision is replaced by operative, insofar as the availability of those lists is not always decisive for the implementation of the procedure for granting international protection. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 10 votes for the European Parliament and 2 votes for the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 502-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u137	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. Report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u138	Madam President, honourable Members. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Asylum and Refugees Act, No 502-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 06 August 2015. At a regular meeting held on 01 October 2015, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 502-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 06 August 2015. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Anastasia Petkanova, Chief Legal Consultant at the Department of Legal and Normal Activities and Mrs. Branimira Klisurska - Legal Consultant at the Directorate of the European Union and International Cooperation and the State Agency for Refugees - Mr. Nikola Kazakov - Chairman of the Agency and Mrs. Kalina Popineva - Senior Legal Consultant, as well as representatives of non-governmental organizations. The bill was presented by Mrs. Anastasia Petkanova. The present Bill transposes the requirements of Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection. That Directive repeals Council Directive 2005/85/EC of 1 December 2005 on minimum standards for the procedure for granting and withdrawing international protection in the Member States with a view to establishing a common asylum procedure in the Union. Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 provides for the possibility of an accelerated examination of applications for international protection in precisely defined circumstances where an application is likely to be manifestly unfounded or inadmissible, without prejudice to the accuracy and completeness of the examination, as well as to the effective access of the alien seeking protection, to the basic principles and guarantees. The directive focuses on the rights of persons seeking protection and, in particular, on their right to access legal aid and procedural information. The bill explicitly regulates the right of access to persons seeking protection from representatives of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in the Republic of Bulgaria, government and non-governmental organisations, lawyers and persons providing legal assistance, regardless of where the foreigner is located - the border crossing point, in transit area, in detention places or in accommodation homes. The provisions of the Draft Law ensure that foreigners seeking protection are informed of the order to apply for international protection, the procedures and their consequences. The time limits laid down in the Directive for the registration of the application shall be introduced within 3 working days if it is submitted to the authorities of the State Agency for Refugees or within 6 days if it is submitted to another authority. The period of time to decide on the application for international protection shall be within six months and only in the circumstances expressly indicated may the time limit be extended. The time limit for examining the applications shall also be optimized. The Imperial provision for the annual adoption of national lists for the designation of safe countries of origin and third secure countries is replaced by a operative because the existence of such a list is not always decisive for the application of the procedure for granting international protection. In the debates held, the Members of the National Assembly expressed support for the reasons of the importer. Opinions were said that the proposed bill is in the direction of the pro-European development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the harmonisation of our internal legislation with European legislation. With the Bill, the Republic of Bulgaria will fully fulfil its commitment to introducing into national law the common and highest standards defined in the process of building the Common European Asylum System, with strict regard to fundamental rights. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights unanimously proposed to the National Assembly that the Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 502-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 06.08.2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Alexieva. We still need to hear the Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Mr. Dedev will introduce him to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u140	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Asylum and Refugees Act, No 502-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015. At a regular meeting held on 30 September 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Asylum and Refugees Act, No 502-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Interior: Krasimir Tzipov Deputy Minister; by the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers: Nikola Kazakov Chairman; by the Representation of the High Commissioner of the United Nations for Refugees Petya Karayaneva. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees was presented by Deputy Minister Tsipov. In his statement, he stressed that the Bill transposes the requirements of Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection. The grounds for manifest unfounded of the application shall be updated and the time limit for taking a decision in the framework of an accelerated procedure shall be extended to ensure the completeness of the examination of the application. There are also grounds for the admissibility of subsequent applications by foreigners seeking international protection for the purpose of procedural economy. The Directive ensures the right of protection through access to legal aid, procedural information, meetings with consultants and access to the information collected during the examination of the application. The right of access to asylum seekers is granted by representatives of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Government and Non-governmental Organizations, Lawyers and Legal Aid and Advice. The time limits laid down in the Directive for the registration of the application shall also be introduced within 3 days if it is submitted to the State Agency for Refugees and within 6 days if it is submitted to another authority. The time limit for the decision on the application for international protection shall be within 6 months and, in the cases specifically mentioned, that period may be extended. The process of examining applications has been optimised. In accordance with the Directive, the imperative provision concerning the annual adoption of national lists for the designation of safe countries of origin and third safe countries with operatives is replaced, as the existence of such a list is not always decisive for granting international protection. With the adoption of this bill, the Republic of Bulgaria will fulfil its commitment to introducing common and highest standards in the process of building the Common European Asylum System, with strict respect for fundamental rights. The representative of the State Agency for Refugees expressed support for the submitted bill. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees also supported the bill, paying attention to several very specific technical comments. First of all, to the time limits set for lodging an appeal. It is intended to be 7-days and whether this is sufficient for an appeal in accelerated proceedings. In addition, two general remarks also indicated the need to provide more procedural guarantees for persons with special needs or so-called vulnerable groups, which is still in line with the directive transposing the so-called "Processive Directive', with the expectation that additional procedural guarantees for persons with special needs can be introduced in the process between first and second readings. And a more sensitive moment, the national lists of safe countries of origin and third safe countries. The common position of the High Commissioner is that these lists must be examined. In the current Asylum and Refugee Act, these national lists exist, but as far as we know, since 2005, they have not been implemented. Where such lists are made available to third countries and safe countries of origin, the circumstances of the applicant for protection shall be examined and assessed in particular. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, with 11 votes for the Asylum and Refugees Act, No 502-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 502-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u141	Thank you, Mr. Dedev. The debate is open. Come in for a speech, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, I would like to ask my colleagues: do you remember that a week ago we also adopted a Law amending and supplementing the same law introduced by the MPS Mr. Tuncher Kardzhaliev?! This Law shall enter into force according to the votes of the Members of the National Assembly from the date of its promulgation in the Official Journal. Dear President, which law do we adopt today and which law do we make an amendment to?! Are we amending the one that was amended by 2014 or the one that we amended a week ago? I ask: which law are we making an amendment to today, and what are we voting on, fellow Members? [[Reply from RB.]] I'll refrain from saying a line to the young gentleman. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, in this situation we are in violation of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly.............................................................................................. Moreover, if you bother to check, you will see that it is proposed that we change articles that already exist with a completely different text and editing, voted and accepted. Most likely, if published in the Official Journal, they are already in force. My proposal is to withdraw this Bill from the Council of Ministers and when it is synchronized with the already adopted Law, then consider it. Moreover, I ask: was it not just a week ago that importers convinced us that we have synchronised this Law with the directives of the European Union? It was only a week ago, wasn't it?! Now with which directives do we synchronize this same Law?! I can read them to you if you want them described in a separate paragraph. Please withdraw this bill, to be revised as it should, in accordance with the Law adopted a week ago, most likely entered into force, as we are practically making changes to a Law that no longer exists in the peace of law since 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u143	Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, you are right that at second reading in the National Assembly's Program last week was included a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Asylum and Refugees with importer Mr. Tuncher Kardzhaliev. [[The National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov spoke with other MPs.]] But listen to me now! You asked me to answer, and now you're talking and you can't hear me. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Parliament ruled on Mr. Tuncher Kardzhaliev's bill. We are voting here on concrete bills. There is no formal obstacle and if you refer to bills that are in different procedures, at a different stage of the legislative process in the National Assembly, it is not impossible for there to be several laws in the same law that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u144	It's not the same!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u145	... Those in the order in which they arrive in the National Assembly and are tabled must be subject to debate and vote in plenary. It is absolutely acceptable to discuss the bill. It was submitted on 6 August 2015, after the Council of Ministers knew and had information about the votes then at first reading a bill with importer Mr. Tuncher Kardzhaliev. Are there any other MPs who wish to speak on this bill? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees with an inch. No 502-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015. Vote 80 MPs: 65, against 2, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR EMPLOYMENT CONVERSATION, WITH THE INSTALLATION OF THE Council OF Ministers. A report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u146	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, first of all, I am making a procedure for admission to this House on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 Mr. Galab Donev's Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u147	We vote, fellow Members. They voted 71 MPs: 66, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u148	♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Employment Promotion Act, No 502-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 July 2015. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 15 July 2015 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Employment Promotion Act with the Importer Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mr. Galab Donev, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. With this bill, importers aim to improve the focus and effectiveness of the employment and training programmes and measures applied so far. The main amendments and additions to the Bill are presented in three groups: regulating new activities and measures for job seekers and employers; repealing ineffective measures for employment and training; unifying and supplementing existing incentive measures. The first group of changes concern the regulation of new activities and measures for job seekers and employers, including: - regulation of a new approach to developing, approving and financing regional employment and training programmes; - the introduction of dual training for unemployed persons without qualification by providing amounts to employers; - the introduction of the possibility of outsourcing services to unemployed persons, namely persons registered to provide intermediary employment services, will be able to apply for the provision of amounts for any unemployed person with disabilities or for the face of other disadvantaged groups on the labour market; - regulation of the possibility of implementing joint actions between the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Employment Agency and social partners for the development of policies with national scope; - providing an opportunity for any exposed workplace with an unemployed person with a continuously maintained registration of not less than 6 months or an unemployed person up to 24 years of age or an unemployed person with a primary and lower education or an unemployed person over 50 years of age, directed by the employment agency's branch, to provide the employer with amounts for the time during which the person was employed but for not less than 3 months and not more than 12 months; - expand the scope of intermediary employment services by including activities to motivate active behaviour on the labour market. The second group of changes concern the cancellation of ineffective employment and training measures such as: - a lump sum payment for transport costs for the relocation of the premises of unemployed, directed by the employment and employment units of the Agency for a period of not less than 6 months, outside the limits of the local registration place; - monthly payment of amounts to persons who have started work without mediation of the Employment Agency who have been registered as unemployed in its territorial units and have received monthly social benefits for a period of not more than 12 months; - subsidies to an employer who employs unemployed persons, directed by the employment agency's divisions, for training and work at work for the time during which the employed person is in training for a period of not more than 6 months; - subsidies to an employer who has opened a place of employment with an employee from 50 to 60 years of age who has acquired the right to a professional pension for early retirement directed by an employment agency unit for a period of not more than 12 months. The third group of changes concern the integration and addition of existing measures for job seekers and employers, namely: - the measures to recruit unemployed young people by the age of 29 are united; - the measures for the employment of unemployed persons with permanent disabilities are integrated; - the measures to subsidize an employer who employs unemployed persons are joined together by single parents (parents) and/or mothers (parents) with children up to 5 years of age; - unite in one registration group for job seekers who have acquired the right to a retirement pension and age and persons who have obtained the right to a professional early retirement pension who do not work; - complement the functions of the National Employment Promotion Council, which will discuss a list of professions where vocational training takes place for unemployed persons without an insured job; - complement the conditions to be met by the persons in the case of registration for the conduct of an intermediary employment activity which have been regulated in the regulation of the regulation; - complement the grounds for termination of registration by regulating the termination of the registration of persons registered as employed, learners who wish to work during their free time of study, persons who have acquired the right to a retirement pension and age, of persons receiving a retirement pension under foreign law and persons who have obtained the right to a professional early retirement pension who have not worked and who have not attended and have not used the services of the Directorate-General for Labour and for a period of one year; - the requirements for the provision of amounts for persons with an approved business project are amended. persons who have received a lump sum and who provide employment on the approved business project to another unemployed person without the right to monetary unemployment benefit shall be granted additional amounts and the restriction of being a member of the family shall be removed; - the target group of the elderly unemployed is changing from over 50 years to over 55 years. The aim is to focus the financial resources more effectively on the group of unemployed persons at pre-retirement age, which is among the most vulnerable in the labour market. In the committee were received the opinions of the Bulgarian Industrial Association, Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, CNSB, KT "Supporta". They all supported the bill. All social partners expressed satisfaction that the amendments to the Employment Promotion Act were prepared with their participation and their recommendations were taken into account. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hasan Ademov, Georgi Gokov, Svetlana Angelova, Dimitar Bajraktarov and Dimitar Tanev. They asked questions to the importers of the Bill and the social partners to whom they received extensive answers. After the discussion the MPs united around the thesis that the changes are necessary and necessary in order to synchronise the legislation to EU regulations. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the vote held with results: 16 votes for....... without votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Following is a report from the Committee on Education and Science. The report will be presented by Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Employment Promotion Act, No 502-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 July 2015. At its regular meeting on 16 September 2015, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act, No 502-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 July 2015. The meeting was attended by Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Elka Dimitrova, Director of the Department of Labour Market and Labour mobility in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The Committee on Education and Science has received opinions from the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Confederation of Labour and the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, which support the bill. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Deputy Minister Zornitsa Rusinova. It was underlined that the bill was drawn up after an in-depth internal analysis of the effect of the measures applied to the labour market and following recommendations from the European Commission on targeting measures to specific target groups such as long-term unemployed, young people, people with disabilities. The main amendments and additions concern the regulation of new activities and measures for job seekers and employers, the cancellation of ineffective measures for employment and training, as well as the unification and addition of existing incentive measures. One of the main additions concerns the dual form of training introduced in the Law on Vocational Education and Training. It is envisaged that for each exposed place of training through the work of unemployed persons who have dropped out of the education system who have no acquired qualification, employers will be paid amounts for a period of no more than 36 months. After the discussion was concluded and a vote was held with results: 12 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. A report on the draft by the Committee on Budget and Finance follows. Mrs. Evgenia Angelova will present him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u152	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the The Employment Promotion Act, No 502-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 July 2015. At its meeting on 10 September 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy: Nikolay Nikolov The bill was presented by Mr. Nikolai Nikolov. The main amendments and additions to the Employment Promotion Act include: - regulation of a new approach to developing, approving and financing regional employment and training programmes; - the introduction of dual training for unemployed persons without qualification by providing amounts to employers; - the introduction of the possibility of outsourcing services to unemployed persons, such as persons registered to provide intermediary employment services, will be able to apply for the provision of amounts for any unemployed person with disabilities or for a face of other disadvantaged groups on the labour market; - providing an opportunity for any exposed job with an unemployed person with a continuously maintained registration of not less than six months or an unemployed person up to 24 years of age or an unemployed person with a primary and lower education or an unemployed person over 50 years of age, directed by the employment agency's branch, to provide the employer with amounts for the time during which the person was employed, but not less than 3 months and not more than 12 months; - the cancellation of ineffective employment and training measures such as: the one-off payment of amounts for transport costs for the relocation of the unemployed, directed by the employment agency's units and employed for a period of not less than six months beyond the limits of the place of registration; the monthly payment of sums to persons who have started work without mediation of the Employment Agency, who have been registered as unemployed in its territorial units and have received monthly social benefits for a period of not more than 12 months; the subsidisation of the employer who has employed unemployed persons targeted by the employment agency's divisions for training and work at the workplace for the time during which the employed person is in training for a period of not more than six months and others. - unifying and supplementing existing measures for job seekers and employers. The amendments proposed by the Draft are aimed at creating conditions for increasing the effectiveness and effectiveness of active labour market policy, improving access to the labour market, especially for the most vulnerable groups by adapting services to their needs and improving the efficiency and quality of the employment agency services. With the cancellation of some of the measures, a financial resource will be released, which will be redirected to implement more effective labour market activities and measures. The funding of the proposed activities and measures will take place within the framework of the funds provided for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for active labour market policy under the conditions, in accordance with and in the amounts set out annually in the National Employment Action Plan. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held with the following results: 14 votes for the draft, without the opposition and 1 abstention. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act, No 502-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 July 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. There is no report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. We're moving on to debate. Here you go, Mr. Gokov. You were the first to ask for the floor. Then Mr. Bayraktarov, of course. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Deputy Minister! I have carefully come to know the proposals for amendments to the Employment Promotion Act and I accept the objectives pursued by these changes. They are generally: change in employment policy, promoting active behaviour in the labour market, improving services to the unemployed, extending access to training, releasing funds from ineffective measures and targeting programmes and measures to vulnerable groups of unemployed people. This is partly in response to the recommendations of the European Commission from 2014 and 2015 and is a consequence of the review and evaluation of the effectiveness of the programmes and measures of active policy in their practical implementation by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. This is all good as goals, but whether the proposed changes will be achieved is in question. The first thing I would like to point out is that I think it is time for a new Employment Promotion Act. The current Law is from 2001 and I think it has played a positive role in the development of the national labour market and in general in promoting employment. The current proposals are yet another amendment and additions. At the same time, there are a number of amendments and references to older amendments in the Law, and all of this is not going to complicate the supply of the desired employment policy in general and the implementation of individual labour market policies. Not to mention that the vision and the employment strategy have become obsolete and we need a new vision, dressed in a new law. From anywhere, I would say it is time to do so, but in the process of discussing this bill, both in discussions with colleagues and in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, it has become clear that a rapid response is needed for a number of reasons, part of which are the changed socio-economic environment and, in a number of cases, inability to pay beneficiaries under the programmes by the Employment Agency. I will support this yet another Draft Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act because I am aware that the development and adoption of an entirely new law is a slow process and the labour market is dynamic and we need to respond to changes. I pay attention to you, Mr. Deputy Minister, as you are here, it is time for a new Employment Promotion Act. Experts at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy should start preparing it now so that we do not have to make new changes soon. Then, however necessary the amendments we will be making will not support them, because there is now a wonderful opportunity to go in this direction to draw up a new Law. I will support the Bill at first reading because, unlike other times, importers have received the support of the social partners and even they are included in the working group in the development of amendments and additions to the Law. Representatives of agencies and ministries concerned with the labour market are also included to increase employment and reduce unemployment. It is clear from their opinions that their proposals are recognized and have found a place in the Bill, i.e. the approach this time is public and transparent. I will support the bill at first reading, because again, it seems that for the first time a review and evaluation of the effectiveness of the already applied tens of years has been made, to be exact, 15 years, active measures on the labour market, and on this basis a proposal has been made for dropping the ineffective and strengthening the attractive programs and measures for employers and unemployed people. I will support the Bill at first reading because the changes provided for in it have greatly targeted the change in the needs of the target groups, which, in my opinion, will lead to the effective implementation of the National Employment Action Plan, on the one hand, and on the other, the implementation of our country's commitments undertaken by the Europe 2020 Strategy. However, I will also take the liberty of paying attention to some worrying moments for me, which I hope we will adjust and remove between first and second votes. First of all, this is the opportunity for outsourcing of services for unemployed persons. This is generally not bad, because it could extend the scope of persons with permanent disabilities or other disadvantaged groups on the labour market, but experience shows that very careful approach should be made to this issue, because the activities of providing these services to unemployed persons will continue to be largely carried out by the structures of the Employment Agency and the funds allocated to them will expire on third parties intermediaries. Somehow it sounds strange to me in the motives that there will be an opportunity to provide more targeted and quality services, because the employees of the Employment Agency still provide quality, purposeful and dedicated services to these groups. Of course, as much as the Law and the funds allocated to it in the National Action Plan, which, by the way, are declining from nearly 300 million in 2008 to less than 100 million in recent years. I don't want to talk about the possibility of abuse on the part of intermediary companies. I am afraid that this outsourcing will result in unjustified costs.. a flow of money to intermediary companies without contributing to a significant change in the situation in the labour market, so be careful with outsourcing. Next is the regulated common approach to developing, approving and financing regional employment and training programmes. I do not think that there is an adequate increase in the development of regionisation and an increase in the role of regional employment committees. A little bolder must be acted in this direction, because such a decentralisation, if I may say so, of employment policies will lead to the implementation of regional policies, will lead to a fairer distribution by regions of the National Employment Action Plan, because on the spot, in the region, they know better the specifics of the local economy, employment and unemployment in the region. Last but not least, I would like to mention the application of the minimum aid principles as worrying to me. The regulations of the European Union oblige us to apply the rule of employment when financing employment policies. I think it was Regulations 1407 and 1408 of 2013 on the application of art. 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. However, this limits employers who have been extremely correct, who have quality jobs, but have difficulty finding labour for them, who contribute and would contribute to improving the qualification of the workforce in our country and in their regions and to reducing unemployment. It will make it difficult for them to participate fully in employment policy. I hope it doesn't come to that and lead to the failure of the small amount of money on a number of measures and programmes anyway. We need changes or Employment Promotion Act, which will give a more flexible and differentiated application of the rule. As the criteria in art. 191 in the proposed changes, such flexibility and differentiated application shall not be guaranteed. Article 16 of the proposal must be precise in the direction of differentiation of training and internship. This will make it much easier for employers. So, with all the conventions, I'll support the bill. I will also campaign for Members from the parliamentary group to do the same with the expectation of adequate changes between the first and second votes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u155	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Any lines to Mr. Gokov's statement? I can't see. Therefore the word has Mr. Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My speech will be very brief, as the work on this bill was done long before even it was seen, for which I would like to thank the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The patriotic front will support this bill, I say again, not because it is very good, but because all the problems created by the Employment Agency and the other directorates to it, we put them with a long letter to the Ministry. Mr. Deputy Minister Galab Donev is familiar with our letter. We've been following the action, we see that there's been a positive development in changing procedures and a lot of other things that we've been debating. That is why we will support the Bill, and I would like to stress again that we need to work very, very seriously with regard to the implementation of the procedures, the deadlines, so that these amendments can really be effective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u157	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Replies to Mr. Bayraktarov's statement? I can't see. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. Members of the National Assembly, please enter the voting room. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act, No 502-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 July 2015. Please vote. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The bill was passed in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE MEDICAL REACTIONS OF CHEMIC SUBSTANCES AND MESSAGES. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2015. There is a report from the Environment and Water Commission. Mr. Ivanov, please submit the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u158	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to put to the vote the procedure for admission to the hall of Deputy Minister Persenski of the Ministry of Health, Deputy Minister Malinov of the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Primary Luleva.. Head of the Department of Dangerous Chemicals.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u159	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 68 MPs: for 67, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the coworkers into the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u160	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 502-01-71, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2015. At its regular meeting on 17 September 2015, the Committee on Environment and Water examined, at first reading, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. On behalf of the importer, the bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Mrs Anna Maslarska. The main objective of the proposed changes is the need to introduce measures implementing Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products and Regulation (EU) No 334/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2014 amending Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 as regards the making available on the market and use of biocidal products with regard to certain conditions of access to the market; Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 492/2014 of 7 March 2014 supplementing Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the rules on the renewal of authorisations for biocidal products subject to mutual recognition; Regulation (EU) No 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the use of explosives precursors which are applied by all Member States of the European Union of 2 September 2014; Regulation (EU) No 649/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on the export and imports of dangerous chemicals, Regulation (EU) No 649/2012 and Regulation (EU) No 259/2012 of the European Parliament and of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2012 on use of the European phosphates of the Council (EU) No 528/2012. The proposed amendments and additions further aim at improving the regulatory framework for the authorisation of biocidal products and making them available on the market without reducing the high level of protection for the environment, human and animal health, simplifying data protection rules, preventing duplication of tests on vertebrate animals by means of mandatory data exchange, laying down rules for parallel trade in biocidal products and covering articles or materials treated with biocidal products. In order to promote the use of products with a more favourable environmental or animal health profile, a simplified authorisation procedure for such biocidal products has been introduced. Changes to administrative criminal provisions shall also be envisaged in order to introduce a penalty for persons who place on the market treated articles which do not comply with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 for persons who do not fulfil the obligations to provide information under art. 73 of that Regulation, as well as for persons who do not fulfil their obligations to limit tests on vertebrate animals. Measures shall be introduced to implement Regulation (EU) No 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The proposed amendments lay down the control powers of the Minister of Health in relation to the application of Regulation (EU) No 98/2013 with regard to the prohibition on the granting of explosives precursors to the general public and on the fulfilment of labelling obligations, as well as by the Minister of Internal Affairs, with regard to obligations to report suspicious transactions, missinges and thefts. The Bill will also implement the inherent functions of the state to protect national interests in the management of chemicals related to the protection of human health and the environment and related obligations introduced in the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. The bill provides for administrative penalties for natural and legal persons to violate the prohibition on the granting of precursors to the general public. An amendment to the Criminal Code is also envisaged suggesting criminalisation of the activities of providing, introducing, possessing or using precursors for the purpose of illicit manufacture of explosives. The amendments and additions to the Law will ensure the activities of the Expert Council for the assessment of priority substances created by the Minister of Environment and Water and will create conditions for its sustainable and effective functioning. After the vote, the Committee on Environment and Waters, with 13 votes in favour, supported unanimously the draft Law and expressed the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures, No 502-01-71, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u161	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. There's a report from the Health Commission. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 502-01-71, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2015. At its extraordinary meeting on 1 October 2015, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures, No 502-01-71, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2015. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Health Dr. Petar Moskov, Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Vanyo Sharkov, Dr. Boyko Penkov, Dr. Adam Persenski, Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund Mrs. Ivanka Krasteva, representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Water, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health, of patient and non-governmental organizations. The bill and its motives were presented by Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Adam Persenski. He introduced the MPs to the basics in it. The main objective of the proposed changes is to introduce measures implementing Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products and Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council No 334/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2014 amending Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products with regard to certain conditions of access to the market; Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 492/2014 of 7 March 2014 supplementing Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the rules for the renewal of authorisations of biocidal products subject to mutual recognition; Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council No 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the marketing and use of explosives precursors which apply from all Member States of the European Union of 2 September 2014; Regulation (EU) No 649/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on the export and import of hazardous chemicals and Regulation (EU) No 549/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council No 259/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2012 amending Regulation (EC) No 648/2004 as regards the use of phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in consumer laundry detergents and consumer automatic dishwasher detergents (Regulation (EU) No 259/2012). The draft aims at improving the application of the regulatory framework for the authorisation of biocidal products and making them available on the market without reducing the high level of environmental protection, human health and animal health, simplifying data protection rules, laying down rules for parallel trade in biocidal products. The proposed legislative amendments lay down the control powers of the Minister of Health for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 98/2013 with regard to the prohibition on the granting of explosives precursors to the general public and on the fulfilment of labelling obligations. The written opinions of the Bulgarian Medical Union and the National Patient Organization expressed support in principle for the Bill and a recommendation for the clarification of a specific text of the Committee. On the basis of the discussion and the vote taken on the following results: the Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Law for Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 502-01-71, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u163	Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, to brief us on the opinion of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "COMMODITY" on the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of chemical substances and mixtures, No 502-01-71, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2015. At its regular meeting on 23 September 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2015. In the meeting of the Commission took part: from the Ministry of Health: Dr. Adam Persenski, Deputy Minister of Health, eng. Ms. Polina Dencheva, Head of Department of the Department of Normal Regulation and Public Procurement in Health and Health; from the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mrs. Maria Galabova, Director of the Directorate of Preventive Activity and Mrs. Elena Chobanova, Chief Expert, Department of Dangerous Chemical Substances in the same Directorate. I. This Draft aims to introduce measures in relation to better implementation at national level of: Regulation No 528/2012 of 22 May 2012 on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products and Regulation No 334/2014 of 11 March 2014 amending Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council No 528/2012 on the prevention of the market and use of biocidal products with regard to certain conditions of market access; Delegated Regulation No 492/2014 supplementing Regulation No 528/2012 as regards the rules for the renewal of authorisations for biocidal products subject to mutual recognition; Regulation No 98/2013 on the marketing of explosives precursors which apply from all Member States of the EU of 2 September 2014; Regulation No 649/2012 of 4 July 2012 on the export and import of hazardous chemicals and Regulation No 259/2012 of 14 March 2012 amending Regulation No 648/2004 as regards the use of phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in consumer laundry detergents and consumer detergents for automatic dishwashers. II. The application of Regulation No 528/2012 will facilitate the provision of certain biocidal products in all Member States. In this context, in order to promote the use of products with a more favourable environmental or human health profile, a simplified authorisation procedure for such biocidal products has been introduced. Once these products are authorised in at least 1 EU Member State, their making available on the market will be allowed. On the other hand, with the application of Delegated Regulation No 492/2014 will establish additional rules for the renewal of national authorisations which have been subject to mutual recognition in accordance with Article 4 of Directive 98/8/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council or Article 33 and Article 34 of Regulation No 528/2012, both in the Member States where the first authorisation was granted and in the Member States which granted authorisation under the mutual recognition of the initial authorisations. In addition, Regulation No 649/2012 provides for the application of the Rotterdam Convention on the procedure for prior reasoned agreement in international trade with certain hazardous chemicals and pesticides in the EU. III. The amendment of the Law on the Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes (HFBC) sets out the control powers of the Minister of Health in relation to the application of Regulation No 98/2013 as regards the prohibition on the provision of explosives precursors to the general public and on the fulfilment of labelling obligations, as well as by the Minister of Foreign Affairs.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The bill also aims to prohibit the provision, introduction and use by the general public of explosives precursors referred to in Annex I to Regulation No 98/2013 when they are at concentrations higher than those specified therein. IV. Last but not least, the Bill aims at: determining the control powers of the Minister of Environment and Water for the implementation of Regulation No 259/2012; clarifying the administrative penal measures relating to the application of this Regulation; limiting the use of phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in consumer laundry detergents and consumer automatic dishwasher detergents concerning the safety of humans and/or the environment. In addition, in view of the technical nature of the delegated Directives amending Annex III and IV to Directive 2011/65/EU of 8 June 2011 on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, a change to the order for their introduction into our national legislation is required in order to alleviate the administrative burden. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 12 votes.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u165	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. An opinion from the importer? I won't. Dear colleagues, debate regime. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will be brief, as the Law is quite specialized and obviously that our colleagues trust what is prepared in Brussels and in the Ministry. What came up in the Commission's meeting was related to the extent to which the concept that is being introduced, namely when delivering biocidal products on the market or any other chemical substances, corresponds to our notion of an exact concept, in so far as other laws relating to placing on the market will use other concepts, especially marketing, even slightly more precisely what in other languages, for example in English, is made in the available on the market. In this sense, it was also my note during the Commission's meeting. Since it already has an official appearance, as a regulation, obviously it will remain that way. Of course, it would be good if there is some consideration for what is available from the translators in Brussels, whether this is possible for us to make it as a recommendation, perhaps for the moment it is a little more difficult. The other note, which can be made, is no longer directly related to what has been done in Brussels, but rather to the reasons with which the bill is coming to us. My criticism was that on page 5 of the reasons, the Law aims to limit the use of phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in consumer laundry detergents related to the safety of people. It is obvious that the use of phosphates in washing machines is not associated with any dangers for humans, rather if they are above certain concentration in the waste water and there are no treatment facilities for their removal, there may be some increased eutrophication. It's a little impractical. We can safely support this bill as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u167	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. - What's the line? I can't see. Anybody else want to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. The Quaestors, please invite the Members of the National Assembly to enter into voting mode. Honourable Members, we are voting at first reading on a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 502-01-71, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2015. Vote 71 MPs: for 70, against none, abstention 1. The bill was passed in the first vote. Mr. Ivanov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, I want a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u169	I'm calling a 30-minute break. We proceed at 2.30 p.m. with the agenda of today's plenary session. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u170	Guys, break time's up. The next item in our weekly program is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL AIRCRAFT LAW. A report has been submitted by the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Commission. Mr. Karadjov, please present the report from your committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on the basis of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, allow the Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Anton Ginev to be in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u172	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission to the Chamber. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Minister. We're listening, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u173	♪ I can't believe on a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act, No 502-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 July This Decision shall At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on 16 September 2015, a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act was discussed, No 502-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 July 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of Legal Department. The bill was presented by Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova. The bill provides that the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation shall be the competent national authority for the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 February 2008 on common rules in the field of civil aviation. Part of the proposed texts of the bill shall comply with the recommendations of the European Aviation Safety Agency on the possibility of entering into the civil aircraft register of each Member State. These are aircraft holding a European type-certificate or recognised type-certificate within the meaning of art. 12 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 and those covered by Annex II thereto. The amendment of the law also provides that newly manufactured aircraft complying with national airworthiness standards are to be entered in the civil aircraft register. The proposed amendment in art. 48th with regard to air carriers carrying out self-service is in line with the interpretation by the European Commission of the provision of art. 4, para. 1 of Council Directive 96/67/EC of 15 October 1996 on access to the ground services market at Community airports. Another proposed change relates to the responsibility of the air carrier for the damage caused by the carriage of luggage. This amendment introduces separate provisions of the Civil Aviation Act in accordance with the Montreal Convention on the harmonisation of certain rules for international air transport and in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 No 889/2002 on the liability of air carriers in the event of accidents which introduces the Montreal Convention into European Union law. The part of the Law governing administrative criminal liability provides for provisions providing for the imposition of a financial penalty on an air carrier which does not fulfil its obligations to grant the right of compensation and/or appropriate assistance to passengers in the event of denied access to the board, cancellation or delay of a flight. Sanctions are also provided for where an air carrier does not fulfil its obligations to inform passengers of their rights, it does not respond to passengers' complaints and/or does not reply within that time limit to the requests addressed to it by the national authority responsible for the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 261/2004. According to the importers of the bill, the proposed additions to art. 143 of the law are imperative in view of our country's commitments to the European Commission to prevent the launch of infringement procedure under art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Following the debates on the draft and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, unanimously proposed to the National Assembly by 11 votes to adopt the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act, No 502-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 July 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u174	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. The debate is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? They don't want to take part in the debate. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act, No 502 01 63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 July 2015. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u175	Next item: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR MANAGEMENT BY THE EUROPEAN STRUCTURAL AND INVESTIGATION FUNDS. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Reports have been received from the relevant committees to which this bill has been allocated. There's four of them. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The report of this Commission will be presented by Mrs Diana Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u176	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Bill, No 502-01-66, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2015. At a meeting held on 17 September 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Bill. It was presented by Mr. Tomislav Donchev "Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy." The bill governs the public relations related to the various activities of coordination, implementation, monitoring and control of the funds provided by the European Union to the Republic of Bulgaria under shared management under art. 59 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, EURATOM) No 1605/2002. It aims to ensure a transparent, more understandable and more efficient system of public funds from the European Union as part of the financial system of the country; to achieve better administrative capacity and enhanced coordination at management level and at all levels of control; by codifying the regulatory framework and simplified procedures based on clearly defined deadlines, forms and other rules with the effect of reducing administrative burden; effective judicial protection for beneficiaries. The bill shall have the character of a procedural law which shall sign the main administrative proceedings. It is structured in five chapters, Administrative-Criminal Provisions, Additional Provisions and Transitional and Final Provisions. The existing national institutional framework is preserved, but by setting up to strengthen its capacity for coordination, management and control of ESIS funds. Particular emphasis in legal regulation is placed on establishing clear administrative-legal relations between managing bodies and beneficiaries. Those relations are intended to arise on the basis of two different institute administrative law. The administrative contract, which is the main form in the grant of the grant and the financial corrections, which are determined on the basis and size by an individual administrative act. The expected positive results of the adoption of the law are: creating a predictable environment for the implementation of the programmes financed by ESIS funds with clearly regulated rights and responsibilities of the participants in the process; removing the existing fragmentation of the regulations by removing the shortcomings in the current regulatory framework; codifying and unifying the implementation procedures; validating the public-law regime in the relations between the managing authorities and the beneficiaries of financial support related to their subject-matter are public funds; introducing accelerated appeal procedures, non-obstructioning the process of absorption of the ESIS funds. In the subsequent discussion of the Bill, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support. The vote carried out ended with the following results: With 11 votes for the European Parliament, without the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 502-01-66, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 05.08.2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Opinion of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds Mr. Tashkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u178	Madam President, honourable Members! I have the pleasure to introduce to you: "COMMODITY" to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds on a Draft Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds, No 502-01-66, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2015. At a meeting held on 16 September 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, Mrs. Malina Krumova, Director of the Directorate for European Union Funds Management Systems, Mrs. Dobrinka Krasteva, Director of the Directorate for European Union Programme of Funds and Mr. Ivan Ivanov and Mrs. Maria Baneva from the same Directorate took part in the Commission meeting. The proposed draft aims to overcome the existing fragmentation of the regulations affecting the management of European funds, as well as to ensure the necessary sustainability and predictability of the regulatory environment. Importers find that the current legislation at the level of the Council of Ministers is often unable to provide adequate legal regulation precisely because of its regulatory nature. In conclusion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds welcomed the initiative of the importer for a comprehensive and time-resistant approach to regulatory regulation of the management of ESIS funds in Bulgaria. Given the high importance of European funds for our country's socio-economic development, the Commission supports the creation of a law to address this problem effectively and efficiently. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 12 votes for the Council of Ministers and 5 votes for the National Assembly to adopt the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Bill, No 502-01-66, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u179	Thank you, Mr. Tashkov. We will now hear the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs on First Voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u180	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, Vice-President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Bill, No 502-01-66, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2015. At its meeting on 2 September 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Bill, No 502-01-66, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 05.08.2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy and Mrs. Yolanda Emiryan, Head of the Cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy; from the Directorate of the European Union Programme of Funds at the Council of Ministers, Mr. Ivan Ivanov and Mrs. Maria Baneva; from the Directorate of Monitoring of European Union Funds at the Council of Ministers, Ms. Malina Krumova, Mrs. Julia Velcheva and Mrs. Vladimir Mladenov. The bill was presented by Mr. Tomislav Donchev. The proposed Draft aims at codifying and unifying the rules under which funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds are managed and spent, introducing measures to reduce the administrative burden for beneficiaries and to achieve effective judicial control. Relations between managing authorities and beneficiaries shall be governed by two different institutions of administrative law, such as the administrative contract, which is the main form in the provision of grants and financial corrections, which shall be determined on the basis and size by an individual administrative act. Certain specific rules regarding judicial control of administrative acts are envisaged, which derogate from the general order of challenge under the Administrative Procedure Code. Members of the National Assembly Emil Dimitrov, Christian Mitev, Philip Popov, Petar Slavov and Danail Kirilov expressed their support for the bill. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the European Structural and Investment Funds, No 502-01-66, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 05.08.2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. The last report we will hear is from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Ms. Karayancheva is preparing to present the report to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u182	♪ I can't believe on the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Bill, No 502-01-66, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 1 October 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Bill, No 502-01-66, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 05.08.2015. Mrs. Dobrinka Krasteva, Director of the Directorate of the European Union Programme of Funds took part in the administration of the Council of Ministers, which presented the bill on behalf of the importer. The bill aims to codify and unify the rules under which funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds are managed and spent, to introduce measures to reduce the administrative burden for beneficiaries and to ensure effective judicial control. The scope of the bill includes the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. The bill reflects the legal framework established so far so as not to prevent the absorption of funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds The bill shall have the character of a procedural law which shall sign the main administrative proceedings. The overall organisation, including the accreditation of the management and certification bodies, is intended to be responsible for the responsibility of the Deputy Prime Minister or Minister, assisted by the Central Coordination Unit, as well as by the Government's Permanent Advisory Authorities, the Council for Coordination in the Management of EU Funds and the Coordination Council in the Fight against Corruption in the Management of the Funds of the European Structural and Investment Funds. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 12 votes for the European Structural and Investment Funds, No 502-01-66, tabled by the Council of Ministers, proposed to the National Assembly that a bill for managing the funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds, No 502-01-66, be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. On behalf of the importer The bill will be presented by Mr. Tomislav Donchev. We're listening, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank all the MPs for the extremely constructive, professional tone in the committees and for the support received. In addition, I would like to apologize that this text, which is currently of your attention, is being presented only now. It was supposed to be a fact two years ago. I apologize, although it is not my fault, but we owed to all institutions in Bulgaria that use European funding, such a text at the beginning of the programming period. EU funds, depending on the year, can be between 5 and 10% of the public spending that is being made in the country. In recent years they are over 2/3 of the investment resource at national budget level and at the level of budgets of local authorities. However, this, ladies and gentlemen, is not the reason why we present this text to your attention. The big challenge is that spending these funds, if I have to be more specific, if we do not include funds for direct payments, by 2023 the amount is more than 12 billion. EUR to be allocated. They are regulated only by decrees of the Council of Ministers, not by a decree, but by dozens of different decrees. A fragmented, extremely dynamic regulatory base that presents requirements for all participants in the process, which, on top of that, change over time. The first main objective is codification, the existence of a synchronized legal order to be followed by all. I note that the text in question not only regulates the processes that have taken place so far, it changes them, and here all participants in the process are categorical that a change is needed. In addition, the regulation of the processes at the level of the law guarantees much greater sustainability and all units involved in the management of European funding, sustainability of the rules. After the adoption of this Law, each participant in the process will know what to expect from the actions of each of the authorities in the units included in the system, which will undoubtedly guarantee a greater dose of predictability, tranquility, security what to expect and what not to expect from the institution on which you depend the one on on the other side. However, the most important step, the most important reform, so to speak in this text, is the rebalance of rights between all actors in the system. Those who are more familiar know that at the moment the managing authorities, the various ministries, those who have a commitment to conclude contracts, to pay or not to pay, are practically omnipotent. I deeply believe in the capacity of all central government administrations, especially those who manage European money. But it's about people. People are by definition wrong, they make mistakes. There are no guarantees that they are always, in any case, absolutely right. Until now, a beneficiary's ability to pursue his rights is categorically in the grey area, inasmuch as there is no clear, orderly order to follow. In very few cases they had the opportunity to appeal the acts of the managing authority, using the order of the APC. In some cases, the slower and more expensive order of the GPC was used. In many cases, their ability to seek their rights did not exist or was very limited. The big step forward is that here we are introducing a new order, i.e. the whole system, all acts of managing authorities, approval and non-approvals of the project, verification, recognition, non-confession of expenditure and, above all, the painful issue of financial corrections to be tried on the system of administrative courts in the country. From now on, after taking the test, each participant in the process, especially the one with the most severe responsibilities, who has to turn money into the beneficiary, if he feels that his rights are in any way vulnerable, has access to fast and accessible funds that need to be put into place, justice. And finally, in my desire to be brief: the unification. We have different operational programmes, plus they have a large rural development programme. Very often, the same institution, using funding from a different financial instrument, must follow different financial rules. This is very difficult to explain. Here, to some extent, with the funds of the legal pyramid, we make all institutions follow the same order applicable to the one receiving the free funding. And indeed, last but not least, the legal basis for full electronicisation of the application and reporting processes is created. This is already happening, as the electronic infrastructure is a fact, all beneficiaries benefit from it, but with this text we create the necessary legal platform. Thank you and I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u185	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Donchev, dear colleagues! Today will indeed be a historic day in the years of nine years, during which Bulgaria is a member of the European Union. I am surprised that on this very day when the long-awaited European Fund Management Act is adopted, there are no more than 5 people on the left side of the Chamber. [[Laughter, excitement in GERB. Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Also, one of the great consumers of European funds is not represented by any Member of the National Assembly. I mean, here's a very loud group, and I'm paying attention to that fact. Historically, the day is because, honourable colleagues, Mr. Donchev and his team worked very hard in 2012 to have this Law. He was hitched. I've been following things. Mr. Donchev at one of the meetings of the Committee on EU Funds was threatened by Mrs. Zinaida Zlatanova that if she submitted this Law for examination, she would take appropriate measures to stop it. In this regard, I would like to express my satisfaction, honourable Members, that we are finally adopting a law to absorb, notice, which will directly or indirectly give an easier way to absorb about 15 billion. Euro. Correct me, Mr. Donchev, if I am not accurate, and about 9 billion of them will be under the operational programmes and under the Rural Development Programme. In this regard, I would now like to say to you that I am not far from thinking between first and second readings to prepare something, to make a proposal in order for the Law to become better working. I have expressed my doubts about the governance structure proposed in the Law. Please note: there are three bodies that are intended to manage this 15 billion. The Council of Ministers, Deputy Prime Minister or Minister of EU Funds and the Minister of Finance. In the Commission I asked Mr. Tomislav Donchev: Mr. Donchev, imagine if an unoriented lady, such as Zinaida Zlatanova, whose greatest dignity is that she knows English, stands in your place. She doesn't know what this priority is, what it is, what it is, what it is. Then what are we doing? I am telling you quite seriously that this is something we should think about, because someone else in Mr. Donchev's place would immediately create some super ministry to lead the EU funds. It provides for a central committee to assist the Deputy Prime Minister. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I also have a remark in the part where the functions of the Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister of EU Funds or the Minister of Finance are determined. I have seen that there is no obligation in the duties of the Deputy Prime Minister to conduct a national responsible policy in the absorption of EU funds. This is written, however, in the duties of the Finance Minister. We need to think here because we really need to place such an obligation on one possible Mrs. Zlatanova if she comes. I hope he doesn't come! [[Relations from the National Representative Manol Genov from BSP LB.]] I have a few more remarks I'd like to make to you. They relate to the fact that, for the first time, a breakthrough is being made in such an important document and the state in the face of its services, its governing bodies will be able to be sanctioned for an inconclusive attitude. My fellow Members, I must say that at the end of this year, unfortunately, we will witness the failure of hundreds of millions of euros from EU funds because there was no such Law! Now from the central departments, correct me, if not, waiting for the municipalities to bring in their papers, waiting for the municipalities to do something. Finally, however, the municipalities will not be guilty and will say: "Give us money from the state budget, because it has passed October 15th, but we could not submit our documents and they could not be verified. What do we do now?! It would be very bad if this continues to happen during the new period. I have my doubts about this. True, there are 27 members who say what will happen to those who take the money, if they decide to lie, to make some spins and so on. However, only four members speak of the responsibility of those who manage the EU funds, and it is large. I believe that, as the National Assembly, we can make the Law better and put the government in greater tensions than they are at the moment. Because, again, a lady like Zlatanova could show up here and start talking about how badly they worked before her. [[Reply from the National Representative Manol Genov: "E, come on. "]] Well, come on, 'cause we'd better get going, right? Yeah, right, it's better to leave. [[Laughter, raging in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u187	Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber, please! Don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u188	Now, you say "pants," I wear pants. That's right, what to do. [[Laughs. Laughter and excitement.]] That's right, Parliament! Thank you for your attention. I hope that between first and second reading we will help the Law to become a little better than it is right now. Mr. Donchev, congratulations on what you've done so far. [[Radio and applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u189	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Procedure? Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm taking procedure the way it is. Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you very much, let's stick to good manners when we're having discussions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u191	I'm joining the call.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u192	Let us not enter into analyses for the presence of parliamentary groups who are here and who are not here, but when we go in, let us look at our own parliamentary group, not the foreign groups! Finally, if you'd like us to count, if you'd like, I can request a roll call to find out what we're doing. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Mr. Chairman, I ask you very much: let us keep the good tone so that we can work, not make each other small, bigger, cleaner or dirty tricks and comments, Mr. Petrov! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u193	I join your call. Are there any other statements? National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, indeed, this bill must be spoken pragmatically. It is strange that, on such an important bill, which concerns the absorption of almost 30 billion. BGN, no debate. Congratulations! Really good job! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to draw your attention to some points in the Law, unfortunately dictated by cruel practice. The first point is the issue of control over the use of European funds, especially when it comes to the use of funds under projects under the Regional Development Programme. The Law provides for three control bodies, the Afkos Directorate (Protection of the European Union's financial interests), but there are no deadlines. By the way, as an investigative journalist, I've uncovered dozens. [[Laughter and lines]] Not to say hundreds of cases, but to some I've informed you personally. This was, for example, the case of spent funds in the village of Borier, where it is written on documents that it is an asphalt road of 1500 meters, and it is 800 meters. All of this, notice, has passed a check by audit authorities allegedly. It is very interesting how these audited bodies do not have a reference on natural indicators. Natural signs! You know what I mean. This was the case with the implementation of the programme in Burgas to improve cultural infrastructure, where, notice, there were no implementations of the project, but finally a financial correction of 135 thousand. lv. In fact, the question arises: who are we punishing with this financial correction? The intruder or, ultimately, the Bulgarian citizen, the Bulgarian taxpayer, who has to pay these so-called adjustments, which in most cases are crimes, because the costs of the project are verified. The project and the site have been put into operation. We no longer have financial corrections here, and we have a financial fraud or a crime. Usually the answers from these institutions, led by Afkos, as well as from OLAF, arrive three years later. I can tell you, I have bothered to make a reference, so far there is not a single convicted person, nor an official for abuse of European funds. Here the aim is.. and I congratulate you on that of these European funds to finally achieve an economic effect. It turns out that several billion levs and euros have entered during the expired period, and the economic effect is insignificant. The economic effect is insignificant! The question arises: where is the Financial Intelligence Service, for example, to monitor whether these cash flows are really starting to flow into the Bulgarian economy? At this time in the Law there is no.. I say it well-meaningly.. because, I understand the good intentions, and indeed this Law had to be passed much earlier. However, we must strive with such a law to achieve the ultimate effect, which is the most important and which, I believe, is the main objective of the Law and the government's activities. So I ask you to pay attention to these issues and really to a second vote if you need to add texts somewhere if you need to be refined, but control really must be much better and through it to achieve the ultimate goal. Otherwise, we have nothing to lie to each other, we will come back to stopping EU funds. Citizens are becoming more active, notice many violations, signal the relevant European institutes headed by OLAF, and stopping usually becomes one or two years later after they are activated. By the way, one of the main reasons for stopping the EU funds was precisely the municipality of Burgas. Exactly the municipality of Burgas was one of the main reasons and this is known by all enlightened people. [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u195	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Do you have any lines, fellow Members of the National Assembly? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a Bill for the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds, No 502-01-66, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2015. 90 MPs voted: 88, none, abstention 2. The bill was passed at first reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR REGISTERATIONS AND CONTROL OF THE EARTH AND THE GREEN TECHNOLOGY. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 22 July 2015 Mr. Hristov, would you like to introduce us to the report? The President of the Committee on Agriculture and Food Rumen Hristov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment No 502-01-61, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 July 2015. I will present to your attention a summary: A meeting on agriculture and food took place on 2 September In 2015, at which he discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment No 502-01-61, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 July 2015. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Dimitrov. The Law proposes the closure of the Control-Technical Inspection as a specialized administration of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. In this regard, all its functions shall be divided between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the respective Regional..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Minister for Agriculture and Food will be the competent authority that will approve the type of equipment and will issue type-approval certificates accordingly. The Minister or officials authorised by him will exercise control over the competence of the persons working with the equipment; for the existence of a type-approval certificate; for changes to the approval, respectively, for the existence of a certificate of amendment of the approved type and for the reporting of changes to the certificate of conformity with the approved type. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food will maintain the information database for registration, reporting and control of the equipment and the persons who have acquired competence to work with it. In addition, the Minister will be a competent authority for the exchange of information with the competent authorities of the other Member States. All other functions of the Control-Technical Inspectorate shall be transferred to the Regional. Delegated staff in the relevant directorates will carry out registration controls; on the technical condition and safety of the equipment; on its environmental impact; on the status of the material base in the forms of acquisition of work capacity; on the existence of a valid certificate of compliance with the approved type and on the compliance of the technique with the approved type. In addition, regional directorates will have the competence to impose forced administrative measures. The employment and service relations with the officers of the inspection shall be arranged, with a view to maintaining administrative capacity, the service relationship with the employees of the specialized administration shall not be terminated but shall be settled under the conditions and under the procedure of art. 87a of the Civil Service Act. The certificates, certificates and other documents issued are intended to retain their validity until the expiry of the period for which they have been issued. In relation to the changes made, the relevant amendments to the Road Traffic Act, the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property, the Law on Labour Inspection and the Law on support for farmers are also being made. After the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 13 votes..... 4 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u197	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Professor Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At the end of the working hours, I consider that you are all tired, but this Bill, which we are discussing, respectively, is extremely important not only for the people who are busy and for whom the structure is being closed, but also for the work of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food as a whole and the functions with which the Ministry is being burdened especially after the recent changes. Dear colleagues, within three months this is the third structure which is being closed as a structure in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The National Grain Service was shut down, liquidated. Seventy-six professional high schools were closed and liquidated by moving to the municipalities, and this is the third control-technical inspection, which is proposed to effectively cease its activities and to be transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food by performing part of the functions of the regional structures of the Ministry itself. Before I express to you my concerns regarding the proposed bill, I would like to tell you that I am already wondering the Ministry of Agriculture and Food what is going to happen to its management of the Agriculture Sector. What is offered for me is the return to the 1970s period, 1980, when the National Agricultural and Industrial Union acted. At that time, all functions were concentrated in the Ministry with regional directorates, regional representations that carried out the sector's management activities at regional level. As it goes, the Ministry, taking these functions, in my opinion, all steps in this direction will result from reporting another error, another crisis in the sector and neglecting the control functions, which are extremely important when it comes to the fact that they are listed in European regulations and it is Bulgaria's duty to implement them through relevant executive agencies. The Ministry conducts policy in the relevant area and the executive activity, the control is carried out by executive agencies. In our opinion, our firm opinion is that the control-technical inspection is necessary, has its functions, as described by European regulations, and performs its control functions well. First of all, the reasons of the Bill state that the district services will improve the services that relate to farmers. I highly doubt this for the simple reason that the main functions of the Control-Technical Inspection are not to serve and provide services to farmers, but to implement European regulations, for which there are corresponding rules and procedures. Secondly, the control-technical inspection is the recognised competent authority before the European Commission for the type-approval of tractors and inventory. The termination of the existence of a Control-Technical Inspection means automatically that our country will be in a penal procedure, because there is not even a theoretical possibility when they liquidate one structure, the next day the European Commission will approve the new one proposed by the government or by the executive. At the very least, that the procedure for such approval takes almost six months and, in order to approve this new structure, it is necessary, in addition to a change in legislation, to have a capacity relating to personnel working, written procedures and only then to move to the approval of the new structure to be the competent authority for the approval of compliance. I read very carefully in the stenogram the explanations that were made during the discussion in the Committee on Agriculture and Food. I'm sorry, however, there is not a single representative from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food at any level of either expert or political.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u199	They're here! They're here!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u200	They're just not in the room, but, anyway, as a result of the careful reading of the stenography, it's still a bit of a puzzle for me that there's absolutely nothing to say with so many words. It was explained how this bill was agreed with different agencies, structures and all are okay, that is to say we have no problems with it by liquidating one structure, we create a new one the next day. But I have no answer to the question: why has the Ministry of Economy not supported this bill? The written opinion of the Ministry of Economy says that the country is threatened by a criminal procedure, as regards the competent authority, which to the European Commission should accordingly be responsible for the compliance of agricultural equipment. For me, this is an ambiguity how the Ministry with a light hand decides that it can cope with the most elementary change in the Law precisely with this procedure. Furthermore, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has not bothered to inform or ask the European Commission in writing what steps it should take in the option when you liquidate a structure and want to transfer functions into a new one. Such correspondence is missing. According to the shorthand, the representatives of the Ministry did not answer the question whether you had a conversation with the European Commission at all. Indeed, I believe that this reckless step will cost us extremely much trouble, and the efforts will be much more than the executive can imagine in terms of restoring control functions. Both the Commission's report and the reasons state that a successor to the activities of the Control-Technical Inspection will be the regional structures of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and the specialized administration will be maintained accordingly. However, the careful reading of the Bill shows that the actual activities of KTI are not liquidated but will continue to be carried out by the district governments. From now on, the transfer of assets, assets and liabilities means that they go to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, where we should be in the option of art. 123 of the Labour Code, which means that the employment relations of employees in the Control-Technical Inspection should be maintained, but in practice this does not happen in the Bill. The work relationships of the employees in the Control-Technical Inspection shall be terminated under art. 328 of the Labour Code, which means that the Ministry of Agriculture will assess a small part to leave in the district services, which will perform their functions, this is another topic, as there are neither rules nor procedures nor the way in which this will happen, but the majority of those employed in this specialized structure in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food will be accordingly terminated their employment relations. In conclusion, I would like to say, as I see that you are bored, but believe me, after a year this structure will have to be restored due to default. The history of the Control-Technical Inspection shows that it has been closed and 1990. The following year. The opening is because it is a specialized administration that must be responsible for the control of agricultural equipment and as such it exists in executive agencies, which is the best way to perform the functions. We will not vote and support the proposed changes, and I really hope that when laws are introduced, very accurate analysis will be made of the consequences and who will bear the responsibility, because the responsibility is not only for the Bulgarian farmers, but also for the European farmers in terms of what technique there is in Bulgaria and who will guarantee its compliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u201	Thank you, my dear. Prof. Bachvarova. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment, No 502-01-61, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 July 2015. Please vote. Vote 77 MPs: 68 against 9, no abstentions. The bill was passed in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u202	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the long delayed ratifications. LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT FOR THE CHANGE OF THE AGREEMENTS FOR THE RESTRUCTURING, ADVISION AND CONTINUING THE ACTION OF THE AGREEMENT FOR THE USE OF WITHOUT ARGUMENTAL AID FOR THE Health Committee Report. Here you are, the President of the Commission,... the People's Representative Daniela Daritkova. There are two more reports. I will ask the rapporteurs in a summary to present them to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament1 I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill for ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement amending, supplementing and continuing the Agreement on Grants under the Programme "Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS in Bulgaria" between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria At its meeting held on 10 September 2015, the Committee on Health discussed the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement amending, supplementing and continuing the Agreement on Grants under the Programme of the European Union Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS in Bulgaria on 6 August 2015 between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 502-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Health "Dr. Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister, and Dr. Tonka Verleva, Head of Department. The bill was presented on behalf of the importer by Dr. Tonka Verleva. At a meeting held on 6 August 2015, the Council of Ministers approved a draft Agreement amending the Agreement amending, supplementing and continuing the Agreement on Grants under the Programme "Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS in Bulgaria" between the Global Fund for Combating AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic. The Agreement amending the Agreement on the amendment, supplement and continuation of the Agreement on the grant of grants under the Programme "Prevention and control of HIV/AIDS in Bulgaria" between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria was signed on 23 March 2015 in implementation of a decision of the Council of Ministers. Under the VIG-202-001 Programme, HIV/AIDS prevention and control (HIV) Ministry of Health and the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria have signed several agreements. The global fund extends the duration of the programme by one year from the beginning of 2015, with the amount approved to continue the activities for the abovementioned year being 2 million. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 500 euros. The necessary funds from domestic financing, as well as the costs of taxes, duties, charges for supplies of goods and services, will be provided within the established budgets of the Ministry of Health for the relevant year. The implementation of the program is extremely important for Bulgaria because the grant from the Global Fund will continue to complement the efforts at national level in the prevention and control of the disease. The expected objectives following the continuation of funding under the programme are the provision of voluntary counseling and research services for HIV; the provision of specific prevention services on the ground; the provision of health education aimed at developing social skills for children in institutions. For the entry into force of the Agreement, it is necessary to ratify it under art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the discussion and discussion held unanimously with 15 votes for the Health Committee, the National Assembly proposes to support the Agreement amending the Agreement on amendment, supplement and continuation of the Agreement on Grants under the Programme "Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS in Bulgaria" between the Global Fund for Combating AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 502-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 06.08.2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u204	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. A report by the Committee on Legal Affairs will probably present the President of the Commission Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. [[Noise and lines.]] You have a report, Mr. Kirilov. I'm sorry, you don't know, but I have it in the file. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I apologize for the misconception. I would like to present your attention in a summary. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill for ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement amending the Agreement amending, supplementing and extending the Agreement on Grants under the Programme of the European Union for the Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS in Bulgaria and between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 502-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015 At its meeting held on 2 September 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a bill of ratification. Representatives from the Ministry of Health attended the meeting. The bill was presented by Dr. Tonka Verleva. The Agreement extended the duration of the Programme "Prevention and control of HIV/AIDS in Bulgaria" by one year without requiring additional funding. The grant to implement the programme is mainly implemented prevention activities among the most risky groups in the country. Through the grant from the Global Fund, efforts will continue at national level in the prevention and control of the disease. The discussion was attended by the MPs Emil Dimitrov and Dessislava Atanasova, who expressed their support for the bill. After the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Draft for the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement on Amendment, Supplement and the extension of the Agreement on Grants under the Programme "Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS in Bulgaria" between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 502-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u206	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. For the report of the Foreign Policy Committee, the People's Representative Jemma Grozdanova has the floor of the President of the Foreign Policy Committee. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u207	Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement amending, supplementing and extending the Agreement on Grants under the Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS Programme in Bulgaria between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 502-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015. At a regular meeting held on 2 September 2015, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined the above-mentioned Law on ratification. The motives for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Persenski. The Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria extends the duration of the programme by one year from the beginning of 2015 under a procedure under which no additional funding is required. The amount approved for the continuation of the activities for 2015 amounts to 2 million. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 500 euros. It is extremely important to make efforts for a stable transition of the international donor's funding to the Bulgarian government and other donors. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 17 votes for abstentions and non-restraints proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, at the first vote, a bill for the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement amending the Agreement on Amendment, Supplement and the continuation of the Agreement on Grants under the Programme "Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS in Bulgaria" between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 502-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Honourable Members, the opinion of the importer is not available. We're in debate mode. Statements? I won't. Honourable Members, voting regime. We are voting for a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement amending, supplementing and continuing the Agreement on Grants under the Programme "Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS in Bulgaria" between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria, importing the Council of Ministers, from 6 August 2015. Voting regime, fellow Members. They voted 83 MPs: 77, against 2, abstention 4. The bill has been passed. Mrs. Daritkova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u209	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of art. 77, ) (a.k.a. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask that the bill be subject to a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u210	A reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote on the proposal made. They voted 83 MPs: 75, against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u211	A draft for the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement amending, supplementing and continuing the Agreement on Grants under the Programme of the European Union for the Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS in Bulgaria and between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 502-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u212	Statements? I won't. Second reading voting mode of the read-in Bill for ratification of the Agreement. Colleagues, vote. Mrs. Daritkova, you didn't read the only member. The title law, the only member, ratified, read all of it and then we vote. Cancel the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u213	I'm the only one. The National Assembly ratified the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement amending, supplementing and continuing the Agreement on Grants under the Programme "Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS in Bulgaria" between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 502-02-26.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u214	You read the only member, thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. Voting mode! For the transcript, everything needs to be accurate. Vote 87 MPs: 80, no objection, abstention 7. The bill was passed at second reading. Moving on to the next bill: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE ANAEX FOR THE CHANGE OF THE MORANDUM FOR COOPERATION AND SUPPORT WITH REGARD TO THE SECRETARIES OF THE POLICE COOPERATION CONVENTION IN South-East Europe, AS REFERRED TO IN Article 12 OCTOBER 2012 IN MATRAHAZIA, HUNGARY. There is a report from the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Committee on Foreign Policy. General Atanasov, please submit the report to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Annex amending the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support with regard to the Secretariat of the Convention on Police Cooperation in South East Europe, signed on 12 October 2012 in Sofia Matrahaza, Hungary, No 502-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2015. At its meeting held on 10 June 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Annex to amend the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support with regard to the Secretariat of the Convention on Police Cooperation in South East Europe, signed on 12 October 2012 in Matrahaza, Hungary, No 502-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2015. The meeting was attended by a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs "Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov, who presented the bill. The South East European Police Cooperation Convention was signed in May 2004 and aims to strengthen cooperation between the Contracting Parties with a view to countering threats to public security and public order, as well as the prevention and detection of criminal acts. Bulgaria ratified the Convention by law of 2008. The Memorandum of Understanding, Cooperation and Support for the Secretariat of the Convention on Police Cooperation was signed in Sofia during 2010 and ratified by law in 2011. The purpose of the Memorandum is to define the role and tasks of the Secretariat of the Convention, the cooperation between the Contracting Parties and the Secretariat, the support of the Contracting Parties for the activities of the Secretariat, as well as certain organisational and operational issues relating to the activities of the Secretariat. The Secretariat itself shall act as a technical expert body empowered to assist the Contracting Parties in the implementation and application of the provisions of the Convention. Institutionally associated with the Geneva Centre for Democratic Control of Armed Forces and located in gr. Ljubljana, Republic of Slovenia. According to the Memorandum, the Secretariat shall be supported financially by the Contracting Parties and international partners, and for an initial period of two years the Parties agreed each to make an annual contribution of 10 thousand. EUR per year to help cover the operational costs of the Secretariat. According to the Memorandum Amendment Annex, signed on 12 October 2012 in Hungary, the contribution of 10 thousand. EUR once every two years becomes annual. Until now, the Ministry of Interior has contributed all due contributions, and this year is also provided for under a budget. And since the Annex provides for a financial commitment to the state, it is subject to ratification by the National Assembly. As a result of the discussion, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to support the Draft Law on the ratification of the Annex to amend the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support with regard to the Secretariat of the Convention on Police Cooperation in South East Europe, signed on 12 October 2012 in Matrahaza, Hungary, No 502-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2015. The opinion of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee is adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u216	Thank you, General Atanasov. The Foreign Policy Committee report will present Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u217	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Foreign Policy on the cited Bill The Southeast European Police Co-operation Convention was signed in Vienna on 5 May 2006 by Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Moldova, Romania, Serbia and Montenegro. The Convention aims to strengthen cooperation between the Contracting Parties with a view to countering threats to public security and/or public policy, as well as with regard to prevention, detection and police investigation of criminal offences. The Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support with regard to the Secretariat of the Convention on Police Cooperation in South East Europe was signed in Sofia on 21 May 2010 and ratified by the Republic of Bulgaria by law. The purpose of the Memorandum is to define the role and tasks of the Secretariat of the Convention, the cooperation between the Contracting Parties and the Secretariat, the support of the Contracting Parties for the activities of the Secretariat, as well as the organisational and operational capabilities of the Secretariat. According to T. 8 of the Memorandum The Secretariat shall be supported financially by the Contracting Parties and international partners, and for an initial period of two years the Contracting Parties agree to make contributions of EUR 10 000 per year to support the operational costs of the Secretariat. So far, the Ministry of Interior has made all the annual contributions due. Expenditure related to the implementation of the Annex will be provided by the approved budget of the Ministry of Interior for the relevant year. As the Memorandum has been ratified by Law of the National Assembly, the Annex for its amendment is subject to ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. At a regular meeting held on 14 May 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Policy shall propose to the National Assembly by 13 votes in favour of the Council, without prejudice to and without abstention, on the basis of art. 85, para. 3 of the Constitution to accept the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u218	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Statements? I won't. Honourable Members, voting regime. We are voting for a bill for ratification of the Annex to amend the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support with regard to the Secretariat of the Convention on Police Cooperation in South East Europe, signed on 12 October 2012 in Matrahaza, Hungary, No 502-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2015. Vote 78 MPs: 73, none, abstention 5. The bill was passed at first reading. You're welcome, General. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please put to the vote the proposal to examine the bill at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u220	A reverse opinion? I won't. Voting regime, fellow Members. Vote 77 MPs: 71, against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Annex to amend The Memorandum of Understanding of Cooperation and support with regard to the Secretariat of the Convention on police cooperation in Southeast Europe, signed on 12 October 2012 in Matrahaza, Hungary A single member. The Annex to the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support as regards the Secretariat of the South East European Police Cooperation Convention signed on 12 October 2012 in Matrahaza, Hungary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-07.u222	Statements? I won't. My fellow Members, I am voting at second reading on the newly read Law on the ratification of the Anexa amending the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support with regard to the Secretariat of the South East European Police Cooperation Convention signed on 12 October 2012 in Matrahaza, Hungary. Voting regime, honourable Members. Vote 80 MPs: 72, none, abstention 8. The ratification bill was adopted at second reading. With this, honourable Members, we have exhausted the items on the agenda. Tomorrow, a regular session on the voting agenda. We start with the first item on Thursday. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
