ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear Members of the National Assembly, I offer to your attention a draft program for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 18 to 20 March 2015. 1. Changes in the compositions of permanent committees and delegation of the National Assembly. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act. Importers - Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. Adopted on 11 March 2015 in the first vote. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act. Importers - Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. Adopted on 27 February 2015 in the first vote. 4. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chair and members of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Energy Commission and the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer of the Energy Commission. 5. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Devices. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. Importer - The Council of Ministers. 7. First vote on a bill amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Adopted on 18 February 2015 in the first vote. 9. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Adopted on 6 March 2015 in the first vote. 10. First vote on Draft Laws amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees. The representatives of the group of representatives on 31 October 2014 and Tuncher Kardzhaliev on 7 November 2014 were representatives of Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 31 October 2014 and Tuncher Kardzhaliev on 7 November 2014. 11. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importers supplied by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 13 February 2015, a second draft law supplied by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 17 February 2015. 12. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Civil Procedure Code. Importers: The Council of Ministers supposes First Law, Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of Members of the National Assembly suppose a second bill, Danail Kirilov and a group of Members of the National Assembly and Maya Manolova and a group of Members of the National Assembly. The numbering first, second, third and fourth is according to the time of submission of the bills to the National Assembly. 13. First vote on a bill to repeal the Law on Private Judicial Contractors. Importers - Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, and Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Judicial Contractors. Importers "Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. 14. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Honourable MPs, on 19 March 2015, Thursday, at 10:00 p.m. during the plenary session the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rosen Plevneliev will address the National Assembly on the occasion of the completed month of political consultations. Please vote on the proposed Programme Project. Vote 157 MPs: for 145, not against, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 11 March to 17 March 2015. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill for the management and functioning of the national security protection system. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Bill for State Agency "Research". Importers svetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and to the Committee on Legal Affairs. It's a military intelligence bill. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Committee on Legal Affairs. It's a bill for the National Security Service. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft decision to complete the composition of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Importer "Kyril Tsochev." A bill to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importers - Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on Compensation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Consortium IBERDROLA INGENIERIA Y CONSTRUCTION S. A. U and BELGOPROCESS NV. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Energy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft amending and supplementing the Independent Financial Audit Act. Importers Valentin Nikolov Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Draft Law on the ratification of the Garrison Maintenance Agreement (GSA) between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Ministry of Defence, and the High Chief Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe (SHAPE) on the basic maintenance of the CIS module with capacity to deploy (DCM), the 2nd NATO Contact Battalion (2NSB). Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Foreign Policy. A bill to amend and supplement the Agricultural Landing Act. Importers - Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Importers "Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping. Importer of the Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. Due to the late time of the? yesterday at the end of the day, this bill has not yet been allocated. There has been a letter on the Annual Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on the progress of programmes co-financed by European Union funds and the countries of the European Economic Area in the period 2007-2013 and the launch of the new programming period 2014-2020. The President of the Commission, Mr. Tanchev, informs me that at his regular meeting held on 11 March this year, the Commission has adopted its Annual Report on EU Funds drawn up in accordance with art. 3, para. 1, t. 3 of the Commission's internal rules. The report shall reflect the status on the management of EU funds as of 31 December 2014. The report has been sent for information which is also available electronically in Section "Documents" on the Commission's website. Asks me to inform, which I am doing right now, the MPs of the opportunity to get acquainted with the report in the event of any interest of all Members of the National Assembly. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Prime Minister informs the National Assembly that Decision No 167 of the Council of Ministers of 2015 authorised the dispatch of up to 21 servicemen from the National Mobile Information Module of NATO with their personal weapons and equipment from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate in the NATO mission for preparation, advice and assistance, decisive support in Afghanistan from 1 July 2015 to 30 January 2016. The notification has been made available to the Defence Commission. The National Assembly has received: Report of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for 2014 containing information on the level of implementation of the policies and budgetary programmes carried out. Report on the implementation of the programming budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Investment Design. Report on the implementation of the programming budget as of 31 December 2014 of the Ministry of Transport, Investment Technology and Communications. The reports are made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Between 13 and 18 March 2015 two materials from the National Statistical Institute were received to the National Assembly, containing results of statistical research on consumer price indices for February and final data for January 2015 and the monitoring of the labour force in 2014. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Before moving on to our weekly programme, an oath will be taken by a Member of the National Assembly in relation to Decision No 1467-NS of 13 March 2015 of the Central Election Commission. Since there is a complex replacement by the MPs who are declared elected and then go and take an oath as members of the Council of Ministers, I read the whole Decision, as the reasons on which Mrs. Stefani Mihneva Mihailova is a MP are changed, and also should be sworn by colleague Georg Danylov Georgiev as a MP are changed. ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1467-NS of 13 March 2015 on the declaration of elected MP in 24. election district Sofia at the place of Veselin Borislavov Vuchkov In a letter, in a letter. No NS-02-13 of 12 March 2015 of the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 12 March of the same year, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the powers of the MP Veselin Borislavov Vuchkov, elected from 24. election district Sofia, erected from the list of the political party GERB in the Forty-third National Assembly. The Central Election Commission pursuant to art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code should declare as MP the next candidate in the respective candidate list. By Decision No 1359-NS of 10 November 2014 the CEC was declared a Member of Parliament in the 24th election district of Sofia Georg Danielov Georgiev under number seven in the candidate list of PP GERB on the basis of art. 302, para. 2 of the Election Code, i.e. until the return of the elected Minister of State Veselin Borislavov Vuchkov, number three in the same list. Georg Danielov Georgiev's mandate as MP for substitution ended by voting on the resignation of Veselin Borislavov Vuchkov as Minister of the National Assembly. For these reasons Georg Danielov Georgiev retains his capacity as a candidate. At the same time, by decision of the CEC No 1356-NS of 10 November 2014 he was declared MP Stefani Mihneva Mihailova No 6 in the list of GERB on the basis of art. 302, para. 2 of the Election Code, i.e. until the return of the elected Minister for Minister Rumyana Gencheva Bachvarova number one on the list. In the so described factual situation, the Central Election Commission accepts that the national representative Stefani Mihneva Mihailova is the next candidate on the list to replace the vacant permanent term of Veselin Borislavov Vuchkov. This decision is based on the fact that its quality as a candidate is maintained as long as it is possible, under the order defined by the Election Code, to hold a permanent term, even though it is currently a MP under the terms of art. 168, para. 2 sentence 2 of the Constitution, respectively art. 302, para. 2 of the Election Code. The other basis is also Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova's place in the candidate list number six, because the advantage arising from the place also creates the right to acquire a mandate on a stronger basis. The legal position of the replacement, while being such, shall not be different from that of a Member of the National Assembly elected in general elections and shall therefore be subject to the full status of the Member of the National Assembly provided for in the Election Code. The difference consists only in the basis on which the mandate arises, which is why preference must be given to the more stable and with a view to transforming a single mandate. In particular, where the same candidate finds himself both in the position and as a substitute, under the conditions of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Second sentence of the Constitution and of the candidate for the seat of a Member of Parliament with early termination of powers, he should take up the vacant parliamentary term. Since Stephanie Mihailova has already been declared a Member of the National Assembly, the CEC should amend the grounds on which it has been declared a Member of the National Assembly, namely Art. 302, para. 1 of the Code. In this sense is Decision No 8 of 6 May 1993 on Constitutional Case No 5/93 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Central Election Commission for the above considerations and on the basis of art. 302, para. 2 of the Election Code and in relation to art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Second sentence of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria accepts that Georg Danylov Georgiev should take over the replacement of the term of office of Rumyana Gencheva Bachvarova for the time during which he served as Minister. On the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1 and Art. 1 247, t. Article 6 in conjunction with Article 6 302, para. 1 and 2 of the Election Code The Central Election Commission has decided: 1. Announcement on the grounds of art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code for Member of the National Assembly from 24. Election area Sofia, Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova, EGN respectively, consecutive No 6 of the list of the Political Party GERB in the 40th and third National Assembly at the place of Veselin Borislavov Vuchkov. 2. Announcement on the grounds of art. 302, para. 2 of the Election Code for Member of the National Assembly from 24. Election Region of Sofia, Georg Daniylov Georgiev, EGN respectively, consecutive No 7 of the list of the Political Party GERB in the 40th National Assembly for the time during which Rumyana Gencheva Bachvarova performs the functions of Minister. Colleagues, with this complicated decision of the CEC actually changes the basis. Ms. Mihailova is in a permanent term, and in replacing Mrs. Bachvarova's place while she is a member of the executive, she enters these rights Mr. Georg Georgiev, which is why I ask the Quaestors, invite Mr. Georgiev to take an oath. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u3	Congratulations! [[Applause.]] Moving on to point one: CHANGES IN THE COMPOSITION OF STANDING COMMITMENTS AND DELEGATIONS OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. There are two work projects for decisions that relate to the oath of Mr. Georg Georgiev. He was a member of two of the Standing Committees, but in view of his loss of capacity as a Member of the National Assembly and the renewal of this quality, as of today, we must adopt timely decisions again in order to assume membership in the relevant committees. "Project" DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Foreign Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Georg Danielov Georgiev as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. We vote. They voted 142 MPs: 140, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The second draft decision is to complete the composition of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Georg Danielov Georgiev as a member of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Statements? I won't. We are voting on the draft decision. They voted 125 MPs: for 123, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. On 11 March 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 11 March 2015 to 25 "Project" DECISION to complete the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Borislav Mihailov Borisov as the replacement representative of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This is from the quota of the ABB Parliamentary Group. Are there any speeches? I won't. Please vote. Vote 127 MPs: for 126, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR CORPORATE SUB-ROADING. Importers are Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The report on the second vote of the Committee on Budget and Finance is presented. Mrs. Stoyanova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u4	The Commission notes that the Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the measure with the internal market does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on Corporate Income Tax is amended and supplemented by the Law on Corporate Income Tax. ............................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u5	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law. Vote 128 MPs: for 127, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u6	Under § 1, an offer was received by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 1 and propose the following wording: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 182 the following "1." In para. 1, t. 3 the words "in difficulties' shall be replaced by "in difficulties'. 2. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The tax relief constituting State aid to farmers shall not apply to: 1. firms in difficulty; 2. taxable persons representing large enterprises; 3. Irrigation investments. 3. The creation of para. 6: The tax reliefs representing State aid for regional development and for farmers do not apply to taxable persons who have not implemented a decision of the European Commission to recover unlawful and incompatible State aid received and have not fully recovered the aid.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u7	Paragraph 1 statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 1 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 134 MPs: 132, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u8	Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova for § 2. The Commission supports the proposal The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 2 and shall propose the following wording: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 189b in para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 after the word "Activity" is added. 2. point 4 is amended as follows: "4." the deferred tax must not exceed 50 per cent of the current value of the assets under point (c). 1 set at the date of granting the aid; the interest rate for the purpose of determining the present value of the assets under point 1. 1 is the reference rate set by the European Commission at 31 December of the year of transmission. 3. New t. is being created. 5 and 6: It's five o'clock. the current value of all assets under item 1. 1 fixed at the date of granting the aid shall not exceed a threshold of the left-hand equivalent of EUR 500 000; the interest rate for the purpose of determining the present value of the assets under point (c). 1 is the reference rate set by the European Commission at 31 December of the year of transmission. 6. the defined in c. 5 threshold cannot be circumvented by artificial separation of assets under point 5. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 4. Point 7 is repealed. 5. Previously on "T." 5 and 6 become ct, respectively. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u9	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 2 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u10	Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova for § 3. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 3 and shall propose the following wording: .................................................. Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions shall make the following amendments: 1. Point 30 is amended as follows: 30. For the purposes of Art. 1 (1) (a) and (b) and (c) of the second subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with points (b) and (c) of Article 21 (2) of that Regulation shall be estimated at EUR 150000. 182, para. 1, t. This is within the meaning of the Guidelines on State aid for rescuing and restructuring non-financial undertakings in difficulty (OJ C 249/1 of 31 July 2014.), and for the purposes of art. 182, para. This is within the meaning of Commission Regulation (EU) No 702/2014 of 25 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid in the agricultural and forestry sectors and in rural areas compatible with the internal market in application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and repealing Commission Regulation (EU) No 1857/2006 (OJ L 193/1 of 1 July 2014.) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. 2. point 74 is amended as follows: '74. Large enterprises are undertakings which do not meet the criteria set out in Annex I to Commission Regulation (EU) No 702/2014 of 25 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid in the agricultural and forestry sectors and rural areas compatible with the internal market in application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and repealing Commission Regulation (EU) No 1857/2006.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u11	Statements? I won't. We vote § 3. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u12	The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ Paragraph 17 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. ...) is amended as follows: The tax relief referred to in Article 1 (1) shall be granted in accordance with the following conditions: 189b shall apply after receipt of the final aid identification number by the European Commission pursuant to Commission Regulation (EU) No 702/2014 of 25 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid in the agricultural and forestry sectors and rural areas compatible with the internal market in application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and repealing Commission Regulation (EU) No 1857/2006. Provided that the receipt by the European Commission is received by 31 March 2015, the tax relief may be applied for 2014. Transfer of advance contributions to corporate tax by farmers shall not be allowed until the date of receipt of the receipt by the European Commission with the final identification number of the aid. (2) The tax relief under art. 189b is a subsequent fiscal scheme within the meaning of the regulation under para. 1 since the activity is already covered by the previous scheme in the form of tax relief and therefore investment in assets under art. 189b must have started before the receipt by the European Commission with the aid identification number, but after 31 December This appropriation is
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u13	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the new § 4 on the Commission report. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u14	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer on the name of the division and proposes to amend it as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u15	We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u16	The Commission proposes to reject paragraphs 4 and 5 as they are reflected in their systematic place as para. 1 and para. 2 to the new § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u17	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 4 by importer reproduced in the new one, which we have already voted on on on the Commission's report with the same numbering paragraph. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u18	And § 5 must be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u19	I put them both to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u20	I think you only put one of them through.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u21	It's my fault. You reported them enbloc. We are voting on the Commission's next proposal to dismiss § 5. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u22	Paragraph 6. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 5, and shall propose the following wording: .................................................................................. In the Law on Taxes on Income of Individuals (prom., SG No. 95, 2006; amended, No. 52, 64 and 113 of 2007; 28, 43 and 106 of 2008; 25, 32, 35, 41, 82, 95 and 99 of 2009; 16, 49, 94 and 100 of 2010; 19, 31, 35, 51 and 99 of 2011; 40, 81 and 94 of 2012; 23, 66,100 and 109 of 2013; 1, 53, 98, 105 and 107 of 2014; 12 from 2015) the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48, para. 7 is amended as follows: The transfer of the tax under para. 6 representing State aid to farmers shall not apply to: 1. a person who is an undertaking in difficulty; 2. a person who is a large enterprise; 3. a natural person engaged in business under art. 29a; 4. a person who has not implemented a decision of the European Commission to recover unlawful and incompatible State aid received and has not fully recovered the aid; 5. Irrigation investments. 2. Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: (a) paragraph 60 is amended as follows: It's 60. For the purposes of Art. 1 (1) (a) and (b) and (c) of the second subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with points (b) and (c) of Article 21 (2) of that Regulation shall be estimated at EUR 150000. 48, para. 7 is this within the meaning of Commission Regulation (EU) No 702/2014 of 25 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid in the agricultural and forestry sectors and in rural areas compatible with the internal market in application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and repealing Commission Regulation (EU) No 1857/2006 (OB, L 193/1 of 1 July) This appropriation is (b) To be created t. 61: "61." Large enterprises are undertakings which do not meet the criteria set out in Annex I to Commission Regulation (EU) No 702/2014 of 25 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid in the agricultural and forestry sectors and rural areas compatible with the internal market in application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and repealing Commission Regulation (EU) No 1857/2006. 3. Paragraph 13 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals (prom., SG No. 100 of 2013, amended, SG No. 105 from 2014) is amended as follows: The tax relief referred to in Article 1 (1) shall be granted in accordance with the following conditions: 48, para. 6 may be used until 31 December 2020 only after receipt of the final aid identification number by the European Commission pursuant to Commission Regulation (EU) No 702/2014 of 25 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid in the agricultural and forestry sectors and rural areas compatible with the internal market in application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and repealing Commission Regulation (EU) No 1857/2006. Provided that the receipt by the European Commission is received by 31 March 2015, the tax relief may be applied for 2014. Transfer of advance contributions to tax on the annual tax base under art. 28 farmers shall not be allowed until the date of receipt by the European Commission of the final aid identification number. (2) The tax relief under art. 48, para. 6 is a subsequent fiscal scheme within the meaning of the regulation under para. 1 since the activity is already covered by a previous scheme in the form of tax relief and therefore investment in assets under art. 48, para. 6 to have started and before receipt by the European Commission with the final aid identification number but after 31 December 2013
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u23	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 5 on the report and in the version of the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u24	Paragraph 7. The Commission proposes to reject § 7 as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 5, p. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u25	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u26	Paragraph 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which It's going to be §6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u27	We vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The next item of our weekly programme: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BANKING NON-CONSTRUCTION. A report on the second vote of the Committee on Budget and Finance has come in. We're listening to Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u28	In addition, the Bank of Bankruptcy Act, No 454-01-47, submitted by Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 19 November 2014, adopted on the first vote on 27 February 2015, draft for a second vote. The Law on Bankruptcy (prom., SG No. 92 of 2002, amended, No. No. 67 of 2003 36, 2004, No. No. 31 and 105 of 2005, No. 30, 34, 59 and 80 of 2006, No. No. 53 and 59 of 2007, No. No. 67 of 2008, No. 105 of 2011 and No. The Commission therefore concludes that the The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u29	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law. Vote 94 MPs: 92, none, abstention 2. The text of the importer for the name of the Law has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u30	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of new § 1 The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create new § 1 ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the following 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: Before issuing a decision on the request of the Central Bank for the opening of insolvency proceedings, the court shall: 1. at the request of the Central Bank or the Fund may: (a) admit the measures under art. 13, para. 1, t. 5; (b) order the suspension of judicial and arbitration cases against the assets of the bank; (c) adopt other measures prescribed by the law to secure the existing assets of the bank; 2. upon request by the Fund shall appoint a temporary trade union proposed by the Fund when the Quaestors have been appointed by the Central Bank before the decision to withdraw the licence for carrying out the banking activity. 2. In para. The second sentence is created: The Court is obliged to appoint proposals from the temporary trade union within the term referred to in the first sentence when it has given written consent to this and meets the requirements of art. 25. 3. A new para is being created. 6 and 7: With the appointment of a temporary trade union, the powers of the Quaestors shall be suspended. (7) The order of the court for the appointment of a temporary trade union, as well as the name and address of the persons appointed as a temporary trade union, shall be entered in the trade register. The trade repository shall also record changes in the circumstances referred to in the first sentence. The definition is also sent to the Central Bank. 4. Previously on AMC's... 6 and 7 become respectively. Eight and nine. § 2. In Chapter 2, Section I is created art. 12a: supplied trade union Art. 12a. (1) The temporary trade union appointed by the court shall carry out its functions until the appointment of a trade union under art. 26. The Fund shall determine the current remuneration of the temporary trade union according to art. 30, para. 7, which is paid monthly at the bank's expense. The temporary trade union shall be insured according to art. 663a of the Commercial Law. The relationship between the temporary trade union and the Fund shall be governed by a contract. (2) The temporary trade union shall have the following powers: 1. represents the bank with a revoked licence; 2. manage the current cases of the bank; 3. protects, fills and manages the property of the bank; 4. receive under inventory, store and keep the commercial books and the commercial correspondence of the bank; 5. search and specify the property of the bank; 6. under the conditions laid down in the law, makes demands for the termination, cancellation or destruction of transactions to which the bank is a party; 7. participate in proceedings in the cases in which the bank is a party and brings cases on its behalf; 8. collects the bank's cash claims; 9. by the permission of the fund shall dispose of the bank's cash, including the amounts in the bank accounts to which the bank is the owner, if necessary in relation to the management and retention of the bank's assets or other costs; 10. request suspension of execution in cases of actions and transactions committed in violation of the prohibitions under art. 3, para. 2 of this Law or under art. 116, para. 2, p. 2-4 of the Credit Institutions Act; 11. Make claims under Article 11. 59, para. Art. 3 or 5, Art. 60 and 60a of this law and under art. 135 of the Law on obligations and contracts and applications for collateral in relation to them, such as those referred to in art. 60, para. 1 and 2 deadlines shall be calculated in relation to the date of the placing of the bank under special supervision under the conditions and in accordance with Chapter 11, Section VIII of the Credit Institutions Act, including the imposed measure under art. 116, para. 2, p. 2 of the same law; 12. with the consent or on a proposal of the Fund's Management Board, entrusts persons with the necessary international experience in investigating bank defaults to carry out follow-up actions and recommend to the temporary trade union actions to preserve and return the assets of the Bank of assets with which the Bank has ordered in violation of the law, good banking practices and/or where the latter significantly exceeds what it received, and in the case of loans granted in the event of insufficient or missing collateral or related parties where such transactions or transactions have led to a deterioration of its financial situation. (3) The temporary trade union shall be dismissed by the court on a proposal from the Fund at any time under the conditions of art. 29, para. 1. Article 12, para. 2 shall apply accordingly. (4) The provisions of art. 31, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 32 - 37 and Art. 41, para. 1, t. 1-3, 5 and 6, para. 2, p. 1-5 and para. 3-6 shall also apply to the provisional trade union, respectively. (5) All employees of the bank, state bodies and organisations shall be obliged to assist the temporary trade union in the exercise of its powers. (6) The temporary trade union shall send to the Fund weekly reports of its activities describing all its actions in the exercise of its powers under para. 2, except information protected by law. The Fund publishes the reports on its website. The accounts shall also be sent to the Minister of Finance. § 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 3 after the word § 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. 1 sentences are created second and third:...................................................................................................................... The list by sentence shall first be published on the website of the Central Bank. § 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29, para. 1, t. 7 shall be added after the word "Funda" to the proposal of the Minister of Finance when "Funda" is added. § 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new t. is created. 17: Seventeen. in agreement with or on a proposal from the Management Board of the Fund, instructs persons with the necessary international experience in investigating bank defaults to carry out follow-up actions and recommend to the trade union actions to preserve and return the assets of the Bank of assets by which the Bank has ordered itself in breach of the law, good banking practices and/or where the latter significantly exceeds what is received, and in the case of loans granted in the event of insufficient or missing collateral or of related parties, where such transactions or transactions have led to a deterioration of its financial situation; the trade union may entrust the actions referred to in the first sentence and the person under art. 12a, para. 2, p. 12, as defined by the temporary offer; 2. Previously on "T." 17 becomes t. 18. § 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 3 a sentence third is created: "At the request of creditors, the trade union may also provide other information related to its activity.' 2. The creation of para. 6: The Syndicate shall send to the Fund weekly reports of its activities describing all its actions in the exercise of its powers under art. 31, para. 1, except for information protected by law. The Fund publishes the reports on its website. The accounts shall also be sent to the Minister of Finance
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u31	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u32	Mr. Chairman, please note two technical errors that we should now make in this Chamber. The first mistake is § 2, para. 6.................................................................................. In order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, it is necessary to ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are effective, proportionate and dissuasive. 6 gets the following edit: The Interim Trader shall send to the Fund annual reports on its activities describing all its actions in the exercise of its powers under para. 2. The Fund shall publish the accounts on its website, with the exception of information protected by law. The accounts shall also be sent to the Minister of Finance. The same technical error was made in § 7, paragraph 7. 2, para. 6. There after the words................................................................................................ 31, para. A point should be set. The words "with the exception of the information protected by law" should be added after the words "the."... publishes the accounts on its website.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u33	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I also want to make two clean editorial proposals. The first concerns § 2, para. 6. Mr. Chairman, this is on page 1. 6. The sentence: The... publishes the reports on its website......................................................................................... Why is this editing necessary? If there is no deadline, it is possible, as we have seen in previous cases, to abuse the will of the National Assembly and to misinterpret it. It is therefore necessary to explicitly add the word "instantly" because the text concerning publicity and transparency supported by all parliamentary groups without one is extremely correct and important and must be implemented immediately. The same version, Mr. Chairman, I propose in § 7, the same is logic. We're on page one now. Paragraph 7, paragraph 7 is replaced by the following: 6, once again there is a sentence...... publishes the accounts on its website..................................................................................... This sentence should be added immediately. The text is published immediately on the website. The motives are the same. If there is no time limit, there is a risk that this information will be published with delay, and thus the aim of the legislator, which is for instant transparency and accountability in the work of the Deposit Guarantee Fund, would not be obtained. I am convinced that colleagues will support these purely editorial proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u35	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you are mistaken. You mean that we alone have not supported the text on transparency. On the contrary, in the Commission and my vote, and in the Reformation bloc, it was for your proposals for transparency. I spoke then, Mr. Kirilov was on the committee, Chairman Menda Stoyanova. We're about expanding transparency. Then I told you that in my opinion the best option is to receive the accounts in the National Assembly and not to send them to the Minister of Finance, because he is an executive body, but he is elected by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u37	Are you proposing or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u38	No, we voted on it in the Commission, but it wasn't accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u39	How could it not be accepted?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u40	Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Dimitrov, would you like to use the back? No. Any other speeches? Mr. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to point out that the BSP left Bulgaria (BSP) will in principle support this bill. I would like to point out that, in fact, all the proposals that were made in the direction of transparency, greater publicity and so on are an initiative that we are happy to welcome the initiative of BSP left Bulgaria; we are happy to welcome the understanding of colleagues from the other parliamentary groups. At the same time, we must realise that we are adopting essentially an extraordinary Law, which is trying to combat and the circumstances in a bank that has reached such a state for unexplained reasons. We must not lie to ourselves that this Law will solve all problems. It is not the problem with the appointment of a temporary trade union, but the problem is the appointment of a trade union at all. Therefore, on behalf of our parliamentary group, I make the agreement that with this Law we will only give a small contribution to the clarification processes in this bank to start without deluding ourselves that they will lead to some real result. Rather, we expect an avalanche of lawsuits to be unleashed, as intervention is too late, which will only delay certain processes of return of property to some extent. But let's do this experience, too, so we support the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u42	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My line to colleague Georgiev is actually quite well-meaning. I will just remind you that the amendments voted on today serve as the basis of the bill tabled by the Reformation Block at the end of last year, which passed at first reading. Its main objective was transparency. Since the end of last year, things have obviously changed a lot, and much more serious measures are needed. My appeal to you, Mr. Georgiev, and to all colleagues at all is: do not call these amendments an extraordinary law, because with this topic is very speculated and this is not an extraordinary Law. Here are not created obligations with a back date, and it is not feasible, of natural and legal persons. An extraordinary law means, with a reverse date, to say: for example, if you have more than one real estate, your state confiscates it, and there is no such thing as this. On the contrary, it is said that welded pending proceedings are being completed by the amended order, which is quite correct. I think that this topic should be very careful and avoid speculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! I think last Wednesday was the prime minister who said they made all attempts to get into the Bank and find out exactly what was going on. In this regard, requests were also made to the court to introduce the institution of the interim trade union and the court ruled that this could not happen. There are tens, hundreds of thousands of citizens who have invested in this Bank, and just because they keep their money there doesn't make them criminals. They can keep them there or in any of the other 29 banks. They keep them there because they believe that the Bank's supervision and all the other institutions are guarding their money and they are standing in a row in which they will not be stolen, but will be there. Is it that everything that happened last year is outside of us? I personally have no bearing on this Bank, but it has happened. At some point, the depositors will ask us the question, "We can't go to the Bank and check it out." We can't go to investigate to know what happened, to issue sentences or to claim responsibility. But we want our money or at least retribution for them. Everything that has been done so far has not led to complete clarity of what has happened. At the same time, we see that there are processes and phenomena that people do not approve of. We will be asked a question: what have you done to save our money or to repay some retribution? And we only have one answer to everything! This measure, which we are currently doing, is the only thing that we could do as MPs to help the process and change the Law in such a form that these people can enter, some processes and phenomena can quickly be terminated and others can be revealed. Maybe this isn't the best measure. Maybe it's not the best. Maybe we'll be blamed. [[the President signals that time has run out]] That we only made it now, not before. However, it is the only possible anyway, and that is why we have united around this opinion, signed the proposal, and we are about to vote on it in order to implement it. When asked, we must answer: we have done everything we can, including this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u47	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Georgiev! My line is about time. The weather was summer in June, July. Then the right measures had to be taken. So it's not too late. It's too late for that moment, it's too late for what we put up as action in the time interval. However, it is undoubtedly necessary, so I welcome the consensus that has been reached. I also stress the fact that for the first time in the last ten years, otherwise there has been bank bankruptcy and further back in time, we are in the hypothesis of applying this Law. It is certainly necessary to reflect procedural discrepancies in order for it to act. I take this opportunity to thank you for your constructive work within the working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Georgiev, douche bag? No. Any other speeches? Mrs. Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u49	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! For several months CCB has been under special supervision and managed by Quaestors. The problems that arise with the situation at the Bank, we believe, are two. The first is with a complete lack of transparency and information about exactly what is happening in KTB in a period in which it is placed under special supervision. The second problem is the total lack of responsibility for what is happening there. In the last few days, different numbers have been heard that have devalued the Bank's assets. It's about 800 million that the Prime Minister's articulate with. According to other experts, the amount is smaller or higher. It is said that as a result of the captures carried out the Bank's assets are reduced by its assets changing ownership several times. But information about exactly what's going on and whose responsibility there isn't. What the government washes their hands with, and it has its basis in the Law, is that the Quaestors are appointed by BNB, so they answer only to the Law of their actions. This is what requires the adoption of the changes, namely the appointment of individuals to manage the Bank in the case of temporary Syndicates to enjoy higher trust, given the procedures for their appointment and demand for responsibility, on the one hand; and on the other, through legal changes ensuring the publicity of absolutely all their actions so that the processes at the CCB at this stage are known to the Bulgarian society. Therefore, legislative changes in the appointment of temporary syndics are resorted to. You know that they will be proposed by the Fund and in practice the court will be bound by these proposals and action relating to their appointment as long as, of course, they meet all the legal requirements. What is facing us as a problem is: should both the opposition and the Bulgarian citizens have a higher confidence in the Fund's assessment of which individuals should have the enormous powers of temporary Syndicates with regard to CCB, what mechanisms should be to ensure the publicity and transparency of their activities, and how should their activities be subject to certain control mechanisms? Therefore, our proposals for which I thank you for having been adopted by both the working group and the other parliamentary groups are related precisely to the publication of weekly reports to inform the Syndicates of all the actions taken to be announced on the Fund's website and the opportunities of a representative of the executive besides being informed, to receive these reports, but also to take action in cases where the Syndicates also do not do their job. That is, if we have any suspicions at the moment about how the Quaestors were doing their job, I believe that with these legal changes we are obliged to provide control over how the Syndicates will do their job, because there are no prerequisites for trusting the two temporary Syndicates more than the Quaestors. Therefore, including on my suggestion, this project in § 5 gives the Minister of Finance, Mr. Vladislav Goranov the opportunity to propose a change of temporary syndics in cases where they do not fulfil their legal powers and work against the interests of the Bank and at the bankruptcy table. This is not a proposal that relates to my particular confidence in the finance minister, but to the possibility of seeking parliamentary control over this, including how the executive is doing its job with regard to the Bank's insolvency proceedings. Please explain this proposal of mine because it may seem a little strange why it is I who propose that Vladislav Goranov should have power over the supply of temporary syndics, but this process where no one is informed what is happening in the Bank and no one is responsible should really be terminated, so we will support this and all other proposals made by the majority.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u50	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Manolova, on the subject of transparency, if we have to be as honest as possible and if we really need to know and refer to whether the Syndicates will be better than the Quaestors, it should be the National Assembly, respectively, to be the body that elects the Syndicates. As you agree, at the moment the National Assembly is located perhaps more than 90% of the representation of the people who voted in the last parliamentary elections, and in view of this particular control, the most logical and the most transparent would be this way. The granting of powers to the Minister of Finance, who is an executive body elected by the National Assembly, is somehow skipping the National Assembly itself. Another is whether we as MPs realize to what extent what is happening at KTB is true or not true and how much we can explain it. It is for this reason that we can have very long debates about what the Quaestors have done and what they have not done, but in view of those who have spoken before, this debate has taken quite a long time. I announced it during a Commission meeting, you weren't there. You were at a meeting at the Ministry of Finance, where, yes, you insisted on greater transparency. I also said it during the Commission's meeting: greater transparency, but it is not in these texts at the moment. If we think it's two Syndicates, if you say it's two. I don't know if there's one, two, five, six, ten, twenty. How many would these syndics be I learned from a statement. If someone has understood it from the texts, let him correct me and show me where it is. But if you think transparency is to understand each other, beyond all, and to state from the statement of some part of the ruling majority how much the syndics will be, it is not transparency. It's just replacing some models with others, and colleagues from the right who were yelling who? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u52	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Any other lines? I won't. Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u53	Honourable Members, the subject of transparency and information about what is happening in CCB at this stage is indeed extremely important and these changes allow precisely for such transparency. It is through the publicity of all the actions that the Syndicates will carry out, as they, according to the proposals, will have to disclose their actions weekly on the Fund's website. In fact, the biggest creditor of CCB is the Bulgarian state.. this means all Bulgarian taxpayers who reached for a billion and a half for now to save what is left of the deposits of Bulgarian citizens, so the largest creditor has the right to know and to be informed about all processes that are happening at CCB. What's the problem with the appointment of the two Syndicates? That they are offered by the Fund. I remind those who do not know the legislation and are not obliged all MPs to be in an hour with it that the composition of the Fund is determined as follows: the President is elected by the Council of Ministers, the Vice-President is appointed by the Bulgarian National Bank, one of the three members is appointed by the commercial banks and the other two members are appointed by the President and the Vice-President, that is to say, the executive authority has a dominant role in determining the composition of the Fund. But since the Fund, as well as BNBanka, would eventually hide behind the collective decision-making, so it would be good for the government representative, who has a crucial role in structuring the Fund, to assume his responsibility, not personally, also on behalf of the government, so it is good for the minister of finance to be able to propose a change of syndics in cases where they do not do their job in good faith and, according to the law, to be supported in plenary. This is not an expression of any excessive trust in a certain person, in this case the Minister of Finance, but hiding behind collective responsibility, as would be the case behind the Fund's decisions, is not good, and we have been convinced of everything that has happened at KTB in recent months. I believe that the proposals are good, that sufficient opportunity is provided for the creditors of the Bank to inform themselves of all the processes that are taking place in it and for the entire Bulgarian society by ensuring the publicity of every action of the temporary Syndicate. In addition, we have proposed that the list of insolvency syndicates be made public because until now it has been kept secret by BNB, so that their appointment can be made in front of the Bulgarian society.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u54	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. Any other speeches? National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, as I have said in the Commission, I will repeat it to you, and we will abstain from the texts, as in the conduct of the working groups we have participated in one, namely myself, on Thursday, in the Ministry of Finance. At the time, I expressed some considerations about the texts. Then the lawyers examined them more thoroughly. A few things come up. The first thing I said, and in view of the debate we were having just now, is for the transparency and appointment of the so-called institution..................................... Mrs. Manolova before me explained the procedure for appointment of the management body of the Fund. In fact, in view of transparency, transparency we give it to the Council of Ministers and to the Ministry of Finance. Those who attended the meeting with the finance minister can correct me if I'm wrong. There the Prime Minister said he was okay with it and the Syndicates were appointed by the National Assembly. In this regard, in view of transparency and, above all, civil control, the best form would be for the Syndicates or the interim trade union to be appointed by the National Assembly. The other thing we talked about with the lawyers, and from the lawyers who submitted the texts, I see that Mr. Slavov and Mr. Kirilov are listening to the debate, it is § 2, para. 2, p. 11, which is in the Bankruptcy Act. It is described under Section III "Fulfilment of insolvency'. There we have the most fundamental considerations, as the temporary trade union should function in such conditions, but we, colleagues, do not have a mass of insolvency. We have a procedure that has been brought to court, and the court has no decision. I mean, we don't have a solution for bankruptcy. How would the temporary trade union manage something that we currently do not have a three-member ruling, if I am not mistaken, and then a five-member panel should rule?! Further, in § 6, in the newly created item. 17, it is written: In the case of loans granted or in the case of insufficient and missing collateral. For those of you who are not financiers, I can ask them to ask the financiers from your parliamentary groups to explain to you what a lack of collateral means. If you go to withdraw credit, you have a credit file that is drawn up. If one document is missing from the credit file, this can be considered as a lack of collateral. Mr. Chobanov, who was the finance minister, can fix me. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, if I'm wrong, she can fix me and say she's not. So how are you going to recover the missing collateral, given that in the audit reports the last item that was audited or the 3.1 billion. BGN, some of them are claimed to be missing collateral?! The other thing our lawyers say is that there's a problem with deadlines. How can we introduce reverse legislation?! I understand the political will. I approve and say that it is nice and desirable to always have such political will when we stand up for our national interests, although a little late. I call on you, once you accept these changes in this way in the legislation, with a broad political consensus sought, so that there may not be any parliamentary group that will ask the Constitutional Court, are these texts constitutional or not?............................ so that we can proceed to a number of things that have been lost back in time in the Bulgarian economy and which have been profitable as enterprises, but we have distributed them lightly. As I told you, there are a number of problems related to these texts. I hope you'll come out and tell me if I'm right or wrong. Wherever I can, though not a lawyer, I'll give you an answer on what we've been debating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u56	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a speech, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that there should be a little more clarity for colleagues as I see that some colleagues have not been able to understand at all what this working group should have done. If the court had done its job, honourable Members, today we would not be commenting at all on these amendments to the Banking Authority Act. That's the first one. In other words, in failing to complete the work of the court due to certain circumstances, a legal hole arose in the legislation, if I may say so, which required the unification of the political forces in order to save the property of the CCB and to protect the public interest. Simply put,.. to protect several billion, which we lent to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. It is clear that the Attack Party does not care where several billion go. Clearly, they're always against it, whether they have to save billions of levs or not...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u58	Mr. Bayraktarov, let's not go back to the cucumber, but focus on the bill we are discussing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u59	That's my opinion on the text. Let's respect each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u60	I don't see what Attack Party has to do with the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u61	Mr. Chairman, I have a feeling that when you say Attack Party, everyone should be quiet. Come on, let's respect each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u62	But if you keep this up, you'll be quiet. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u63	Was that a threat?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u64	No, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u65	Don't warn me. I would advise you to learn your rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u66	I don't take advice from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u67	Okay. Dear colleagues, a working group of lawyers has united their efforts to achieve the best texts. Including Mrs. Manolova, she made some good proposals to have real control. I believe that it is no longer necessary to pay so much attention to the populist talk of the Attack Party.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov. I will also call on you to stick to the bill as you have done so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u69	Of course, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, you have not understood the essence of my speech. No, we're not against maintaining public interest. My speech was aimed at inaccuracies in the texts that are being offered to us. For me, always the public interest, the interest of the nation was at the forefront. I always thought it was the Constitution that kept statehood and nation in Bulgaria. It is for this reason that I am sorry, but there is no way to support texts that are contrary to the basic law in the country. Please, I call on you in this regard to really talk about the texts. If you could just step out and say something in my speech. You can do it in the form of a duplicate, if it's against what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u70	Any other lines? I won't. Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Alexandrov, I would agree with your line if you had indicated at least one discrepancy or one contradiction in the proposed texts in the law. Moreover, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova read them text by text, word by word, only I did not hear you comment on a specific text. Moreover, you commented on some legal absurdities that were the result of your thinking, which I do not even want to comment on. But this, as I said, is the behavior of your political power.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u72	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Statements? Mr. Philip Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, the case with CCB is a precedent in our modern legal system. Indeed this case has its genesis and it begins its beginning before the appointment of the quaestura and the withdrawal of the license from the Bulgarian National Bank. This change is the last legislation through which the Bulgarian Parliament, the National Assembly, seeks to preserve the property that is currently in KTB and what was during the appointment of the Quaestura. How perfect is this text, this proposal in the Bankruptcy Act will show time. However, when all other tools have been exhausted so far, it can be seen what the BNB has done there, how much it has controlled, how much it has managed to prevent these processes, how much the Bill, which we will vote on today and we will support, will carry out the action for which it was created to prevent the drain of KTB and keep the property in this bank. We support such a bill precisely because we are against the draining of KTB. We'll support him in the hall. I hope that all parliamentary groups will support it, because before the Bulgarian citizens, you know that the Fund is essentially the largest creditor in CCB, the Bulgarian Parliament must react adequately and according to its powers. This is precisely the bill that we are going to vote on today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Martin Dimitrov in § 2, para. 6 to be added immediately after the fund published. Please vote. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. An identical proposal is made by the national representative Martin Dimitrov and for § 7, item 7. 2, para. 6 to be added the word immediately after the fund published Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 77, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We vote on the proposals of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova in § 2, para. 6 to displace certain expressions. After the vote, I will read the proposals she presented from the stands. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: 92, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the proposal in § 7, paragraph 7. 2, para. 6 supposed by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made by the parliamentary tribune. 88 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Before I submit the texts in paragraphs 1 to 7, I will read to you once again what kind of acquired § 2, para. 6 after the proposals of the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Menda Stoyanova, which we have just accepted: The Interim Trader shall send to the Fund annual reports on its activities describing all its actions in the exercise of its powers under para. 2. The Fund shall publish the reports on its website without delay except for information protected by law. The accounts shall also be sent to the Minister of Finance. Paragraph 7, t. 2...... is created The Syndicate shall send to the Fund weekly reports of its activities describing all its actions in the exercise of its powers under art. 31, para. 1. The Fund shall immediately publish the reports on the website with the exception of information protected by law. The accounts shall also be sent to the Minister of Finance. We are going to vote on paragraphs 1 to 7 including those created on a proposal from the Commission, together with the proposals made by the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Menda Stoyanova. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: 88, none, abstention 4. Paragraphs 1 to 7 including those established on a proposal from the Commission have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u75	Paragraph 1 of the importing proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 the following 1. In para. 1, t. 13 the words "insolvency court' shall be replaced by "insolvency court'; the words "art' shall be replaced by "insolvency court'. 59, para. Art. 3 and 5 and art. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2). 59, para. Art. 3 or 5, Art. 60 and Article 60 (a) and (b) 2. In para. 3 words................................................................................. 1, t. 1, 2, 11, 12, 14, 15 and 17 1, t. 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 17. 3. In para. 7 words for every three months shall be replaced by at least once a month and a sentence shall be created second: The report together with the minutes of the meeting shall be sent immediately for information to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u76	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of the Commission in its version under § 1, which shall become § 8. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal for § 8 in its report, which was § 1 by importer, is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u77	Under Paragraph 2, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of the paragraph which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The second sentence is created: "The book is also conducted electronically and is available on the fund's website.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u78	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's text on the version of § 2 by importer, which in the Commission's report shall become § 9. Please vote. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. Paragraph 9 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u79	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 3 and shall propose the following version of the paragraph which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52, para. 4 A sentence 2 is created: The documents are sent for information to the National Assembly within three days of their receipt.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u80	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 10 on the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's version of § 3 by importer, which in the Commission's report becomes § 10, is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u81	There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of § 11. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 11: "11." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: 2 At the request of the insolvency practitioner or the fund, the court may accept collateral for claims aimed at filling in the insolvency table. The claim shall be admissible where the request is supported by sufficient evidence on the basis of which it can be reasonably assumed that the claim is justified. 2. So far, the Al. Two's fine. ) (a.k.a. 3 and in it after the words "al." 1s is added and 2.s is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u82	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 11 together with its content on a report. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The proposed § 11 together with its relevant content on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u83	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 3 words shall be deleted. 2. In para. 5 the words of the manager shall be replaced by the manager. 3. In para. 7 the
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u84	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the version of § 4 by importer, which in the Commission report becomes § 12. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 12 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u85	There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of § 13. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the MP Petar Slavov to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the word "Might" is replaced by "Besides" in the cases envisaged by the law, can "might" be replaced. 2. In para. 5 after the words "supplied by" the temporary offer or by "supplier" shall be added. Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 13, together with the text to it on the Commission report. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal to create § 13, together with the corresponding text on a report, has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u86	There is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of § 14. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 60a: "Return claims for property received" Art. 60a. (1) The insolvency practitioner, the temporary trade union or the fund may bring claims before the insolvency court for the return of assets received originating in the bank against any third party where: 1. the third party has not performed a counter-preservation or the same is at a significantly lower value than the one received, or 2. the third party received shall take the form of a cash and/or non-cash contribution to its capital. (2) By action under para. 1 no prior state fee shall be collected. If the claim is respected, the next state fee shall be collected by the condemned party, and if the claim is rejected, the state fee shall be collected from the insolvency table.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u87	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 14 together with the corresponding text on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to create § 14, together with its corresponding text on a report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u88	There is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of § 15. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Petar Slavov to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. 1 after the words the requests under art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 60a and under art. 135 of the Debts and Contracts Act
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u89	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 15, together with its content on the Commission's report. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u90	They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u91	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106, para. 2 A sentence 2 is created:.... sends the report to the trade union for information to the National Assembly within three days of its
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u92	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 16 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u93	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of § 17. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 17: Seventeen. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 6: It's six. The bank's origin is any initial provision by the bank of cash and/or property rights to its debtor, including the collateral provided, which in the same or changed form have become part of the patrimony of each third party, irrespective of the number of interim transfers and their legal form.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u94	Statements? I won't. We vote § 17. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u95	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u96	We vote. Vote 99 MPs: for 98, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u97	Paragraph 6. In the Law on Guarantee of Deposits in Banks (Obn., SG No. ...), in art. 9, para. 2, p. 4 the words "two members" shall be replaced by "one member." The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 6, which becomes § 18: .............................................................................. In the Deposit Guarantee Act in the Banks (Obn., SG No. ...) in art. 9, para. A third sentence shall be created: the members of the Board of Directors with an expired term of office shall continue to exercise their powers until new members have been appointed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u98	Statements? Mrs. Manolova. [[Replications between rapporteur Menda Stoyanova and MP Maya Manolova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u99	Honourable Members, Madam President! I just found out from Mrs. Stoyanova what are the plans of GERB, I suppose the reformers, on these two texts, but it is good to take them public. It is about the fact that, with regard to the temporary Syndicates, we started with an offer from the Prime Minister almost to be determined by the National Assembly. We have heard proposals that the Deposit Guarantee Fund should also be structured differently, such as the National Assembly having its vote on this. We went through more modest proposals of the Reformation bloc, namely one of the five members not to be determined by the representative of the Council of Ministers and the Bulgarian National Bank in the Fund, but to be determined by the National Assembly. We now see that in these two paragraphs, the proposals of the Reforming Block are not supported, i.e. the Fund remains to be structured in the way this has been happening so far, namely: the government, the Vice-President, BNB, the Commercial Banks, one member, the other two members by the government and BNB. Yes, it would be good, because the Fund's word in the case of CCB will be extremely serious, and also its responsibility, above all, to guarantee the billion and a half that the State has given to the Fund as a loan and then it must be traced how it will be secured back, so it would be good to have more trust in the Fund, and that would be achieved through another system of forming its composition. If the reformers have given up their proposal, it is good to state it. If you have a deal, I say it in the positive sense of this word, the ruling majority, to amend the Law next week, it would also be good to become public known by the parliamentary platform.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u100	The line is Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u101	Mrs. Manolova, I understand your plea that you want the National Assembly to become the main director of the Republic and partly support it. If, ladies and gentlemen, today we adopt this text, next week, when in this House we will look at a second reading the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Guarantee of Deposits in Banks, we will have to repeal this text. Whether it is in the new law or not, it is also the decision of the people's representation. It's pointless for a week to have this text here. Tomorrow Thursday is the deadline between first and second readings for proposals under the Deposit Guarantee Act in banks, so that all parliamentary groups who believe they should make amendments to this new law, in one direction or another, including on the subject of whether some of the representatives of the Fund should be elected by the National Assembly, have the opportunity to do so today and tomorrow. Otherwise, we'll just be doing a legal absurdity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u102	Second line, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear Mrs. Manolova! Let me remind you that the Deposit Guarantee Fund is a guarantee fund that is formed with money from commercial banks. It is not some independent body, institute or regulator and in this sense I do not see the role of the National Assembly to elect members of this body. It is very clear that it is structured by the commercial banks, the BNB and the executive, which controls this process, as the Fund is attached to the budget when it is short of the funds. It borrows from the state budget or the budget guarantees its loans. There is no place in a guarantee fund for the National Assembly to do so. If anyone interferes with the CCB that this Fund is some kind of regulatory authority. If we do this, we will also need for other guarantee funds that exist in other sectors to choose people in the National Assembly. For the budget, your argument that budget money is involved there, the minister of finance, the government has a role to play. We control the Prime Minister and the ministers. We will also be opposed to the next proposal in the Law which enters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u104	Mr. Dimitrov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u105	Madam President, dear Mrs. Manolova! Mr. Tsonev, please do not take Mrs. Manolova's attention, as we will not agree. I would like to involve Mrs. Manolova's full attention on this matter indeed. If that's possible! [[Radio.]] Mrs. Manolova, we haven't given up. On the contrary, we will submit this text to the Deposit Guarantee Act. I do not agree with Mr. Tsonev, who says that when the Council of Ministers proposed, this was not an intervention in a private structure, and when Parliament proposed, it was an intervention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u106	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u107	This is an indefensible thesis of the colleague. For this reason, we will demand that Parliament have one representative with the following logic, Mrs. Manolova. When Parliament elects its representative to the Deposit Guarantee Fund, it will be able to invite it to all budget and other committees to answer questions. He will be selected in a competitive public procedure. Mrs. Manolova, I specifically address you with the following question. I expect you to back us up! Not to be like the measuring instruments here in the Chamber, you supported us, and your colleagues came to the Budget Commission, had met with the Oil and Gas Association and said: "Yes, in the Chamber we will support, and here at the Commission, we will no longer support the Oil and Gas Association. And they couldn't express any serious motives. I mean, I'm counting on it, which is why I've also committed your attention not to make it so that tomorrow, when we bring it in, BSP still finds a reason and reason not to support us. I explained the logic, it's very serious. There is no reason for parliament, given that there is such a large loan given by the State, not having a representative to verify who is responsible and who answers many questions of all parliamentary groups to the Commission. I hope this time, unlike the measuring instruments, the position of the BSP will remain what you have stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u108	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. That was the third line. Although Mr. Kirilov made a request for a reply, but led by the understanding that MPs from different parliamentary groups should be given the opportunity, after Mrs. Stoyanova from our group took the first line, there was no way when the group of the DPS and the Reformist bloc expressed their desire to allow a second reply from our group. Mr. Kirilov, with an apology I saw you, I will give you a chance to speak. A hole, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u109	Honourable Members, Madam President! I'm starting backwards for the lines. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I am not in the habit of turning away from my word and from commitments made, unlike you, to which I can remind that on the very important topic of pension funds, you were first very strongly opposed, then you have become.................................................................... But let's not go back to the past like you tried to do before. [[Reply of MP Martin Dimitrov.]] Moreover, I was the man who tried to inspire Mr. Slavov's courage to expand his proposal and propose that at least two members of the Fund be elected by the National Assembly. Even if you ask me, it is normal when the National Assembly has a role to play in the election of such an important body, to propose not just an ordinary member, but why not the President? So you can really think about it here. On the other hand, I understand that the subject seems rather theoretical, given that in both cases the decision will be taken by the ruling majority. Whether Boyko Borisov will appoint the composition of the Fund through the Council of Ministers or through the parliamentary majority, there is no particular practical importance and some special difference. But since I am a parliamentarians, I still have faith in Parliament's capabilities, regardless of the final vote, at least to examine under the magnifying glass the applications and really make them high requirements for both professionalism and integrity in this situation. I agree with you that there really must be a role here for the National Assembly, because for all those who follow this Law above, I will say that the Fund has extremely large powers in banking insolvency. He will determine the two syndics to which we currently give huge powers in the management of the bank's assets and in the defence of the bankruptcy table, in bringing cancellation claims. So the persons who will determine these two figures and control them really need to be looked under a magnifying glass and it is better to select some of them from the National Assembly. I also accept to a large extent Mr. Tsonev's arguments, but since the Bankruptcy and the activities of the Fund in this particular hypothesis are really very important both for the budget and for the interests of the Bulgarian taxpayers, there is, in my opinion, no violation of the principle of the National Assembly to have its role in the structuring of this extremely important body. So I will support you, honourable gentlemen Slavov and Dimitrov, as long as you have the courage to make adequate proposals to expand the role of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u110	To speak, Mr. Kirilov. Prior to this personal explanation, Mr. Slavov, you were honored several times by Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u111	Thank you, Madam President. I apologize, my colleagues, for the first time I thought I'd keep quiet, but there were a lot of references. I'll just say briefly, Mrs. Manolova, I don't think I'm a fearsome person, but thank you for trying to encourage me anyway. But I am a really thoughtful person and I wonder if the measure of having a second person to choose from the National Assembly is not really BSP's request to offer a person there? If so, say it straight, or even easier to make a proposal, a formal deadline is running in which you can do it. Then things will be clear. That's what I'm starting to think.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u112	We're gonna party the Fund, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u113	To speak, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u114	Madam President, honourable Members! My speech will be brief, because there should have been a point of reply and it is in the following supplementary context so that there is no doubt in my colleagues because they will vote: the court appoints temporary Syndicates. I'll say it again if I have to do it twice more to be sure and sure of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u115	On a proposal from the Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u116	Yes, on a proposal from the Fund. I will not comment on the norm that we have already adopted because we have accepted it. But the temporary trade union is controlled by the bankruptcy court, so I am so emphatically stressing this fact. The entire proceedings are controlled by the court. Yes, we have imposed a method of offering temporary syndics, which, however, has a logical explanation. It relates to the fact that the Fund is the largest creditor of bankruptcy. It is appropriate for the person and entity to determine the instruments for the collection of the specific debt. But I stress again, all the actions of the interim trade union are controlled by the bankruptcy court. [[Reply of National Representative Maya Manolova.]] How is that not true? All 18 powers...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u117	Please don't go into direct dialogues with each other!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u118	...are controlled by the court. For there to be no tension, I would say that perhaps the dispute and the key to it is not exactly how the composition of the Fund will be determined. Unlike the previous speakers, I am somewhat skeptical that in the National Assembly we make good personnel selection, but since there is this parliamentary spirit, after it is assumed that the National Assembly is almost by the most transparent procedure choose, okay, let some of the members of the Fund and the National Assembly be elected. But somehow we're basically infecting the debate with the prejudice of some manipulation, for it's going to be done maybe a secret squad there at the Fund. It's not like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u119	- What's the line? First line, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u120	Honourable Members, Madam President! The subject is indeed extremely important because the Fund has huge powers in terms of bank bankruptcy. Unlike commercial insolvency, there is not even the figure of the general assembly of creditors in banking insolvency. In this particular hypothesis, the Fund and through it the Bulgarian State is the largest creditor. We're not just making a law for a Corporate Commercial Bank, are we? Tomorrow, there may be other hypotheses in which there are other non-small creditors. Is it fair for all the powers here to be focused on one of the bank's creditors? I also draw your attention to the fact that this is the only case in which the court acts almost in bound jurisdiction. The fund is offering, and the court is obliged to appoint. The court cannot replace the provisional syndics, whatever action they are carrying out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u121	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u122	Only on a proposal from the Fund, on my proposal and on a proposal from the Finance Minister. Therefore, the powers that the Fund has are enormous. I therefore think that it is normal for its members to be elected under the conditions of publicity, transparency and greater responsibility. I did not think, since we were gathered representatives from all the parliamentary groups, that when the Reformation bloc proposed that the National Assembly define one of the members, it meant itself. I thought their appetites for power positions still had some measure. [[Noise and lines from RB.]] Moreover, of course, the parliamentary majority decides. I told you: whether Boyko Borisov will determine it through the government or through the parliamentary majority, it practically doesn't matter. However, if we support the enormous powers of an institution such as the Fund, it is normal to want some control over it, and not tomorrow to wash your hands, as is now the case with the Quaestors: the BNB has appointed them, we do not know what it is doing, we are not responsible, no one is responsible. [[Noise and lines from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u123	Second line? A hole, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u124	I really wanted to hold back on that back. That's not true! It is true that the court is bound to the proposal, but it is not true that the court cannot judge. The court shall assess both the fulfilment of the requirements of the trade union and whether its consent is valid. It shall verify in full the selection and designation of the trade union. With regard to the Fund, I also specify the following. The fund is not a creditor. The fund is the compensatory creditor. Creditors on the bankruptcy table, and here the bank will have enough. The fund is the creditor who paid. I don't want to repeat the arguments Mr. Tsonev put forward here, but the Fund has borrowed the funds from the state budget. The Fund is the flexible executive instrument that bears the responsibility to compensate for the damage and the consequences of the Bank's bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u125	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u126	Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner in which the sitting is conducted. Just a few minutes ago, I was sharply replicated here for my statement by Mr. Glauchev. At the same time, such a statement by Mrs. Manolova was passed with silence, although I am on the principle of developing a thesis. I cannot, however, understand which Rules of Procedure the National Assembly is working on........................is the one on which the leader sets the second according to his thinking and is living in the role of a clairvoyant when he has to decide whether or not a Member of the National Assembly is speaking in substance. I ask you very much to strictly respect the Rules of Procedure and not to interrupt the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u127	What kind of provision do you think I've broken?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u128	Explain to Mr. Glauchev which provision I violated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u129	Why do you want procedure with me?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u130	Because you're the chairman right now, and I'm doing the procedure. [[Switching of lines between President Tsetska Tsacheva, rapporteur Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and MP Dimitar Bajraktarov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u131	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Procedure. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u132	Madam President, I will not do procedure in the manner of conduct, because Mr. Bayraktarov uses this procedure. I propose that we put an end to the debate on this text, as they have already emerged from the substance of the particular text. I think the text said everything. Please put to the vote an end to the debate on this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u133	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedure of Mrs. Stoyanova to end the debates on this text. They voted 105 MPs: 92 against 7, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Debates have been suspended. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal not to support the text of the importer for § 6 by importer and the version of § 18 as reported on the Commission report. We vote § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u134	You should first put the importer's proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u135	Do you have the report before you, Mrs. Manolova? [[Relations from the National Representative Maya Manolova.]] I put to the vote a proposal in the Commission's report in the way it is reported here. [[Relations from the National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Am I to understand that you would essentially like to have a separate vote on the Commission's proposal that the text of the importer is not supported and then put to the vote § 18? There was a proposal from Mrs. Manolova for a separate vote. I'm putting this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u136	Now what are we voting on?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u137	Cancel the vote that was going on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u138	We are voting on Mrs. Manolova's proposal. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u139	Mrs Manolova wants to vote separately on the Commission's proposal that the version of § 6 is not supported and is then voted separately on § 18. We vote. Vote 87 MPs: 16, against 63, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I again put to the vote the Commission's proposal in failure to support the wording on § 6 and the version of § 18. They voted 111 MPs: for 83, against 24, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Revoting Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u140	Honourable Members, Madam President! I would like a re-vote procedure because, as seen from the screen, even the importers of the proposal, are voting against it, against their own proposal, which is rejected by the Commission. That is why I want them to be given the opportunity to at least support their own proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u141	It's a re-vote. Vote 107 MPs: 69 against 28, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u142	Here, they took a note, Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u143	Paragraph 7 by importer. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 7 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u144	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Voted 103 MPs: 78, against 21, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u145	Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 19: "Seriously, I'm In the Law for withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property (prom., SG No. ...), in § 1 of the Additional provision, of which 2 point (b) shall be added at the end of this period, or shall exercise control within the meaning of Paragraph 1 point. 4 of the Additional Provisions of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u146	Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u147	Honourable Members, Madam President! This is one of the texts that we will not support. As far as I can see, this is Mr. Yordan Tsonev's proposal, which this time is helpfully done by Mr. Danail Kirilov. We are strongly opposed to such legislative technique, where amendments are made by changes between first and second readings and in third laws, even more unrelated to the subject of legal regulation. We even stated that in the interest of collecting any deviant property from the bankruptcy table of KTB, we would support similar texts to return assets and assets to the Bank. But making changes to the Law on Civil confiscation by extending its scope through the Law on Bankruptcy is really more than unacceptable! Moreover, we explained that, in connection with a visit of various European institutions and other bodies, the Commission itself is currently working on proposals that will propose to the people's representation to be imported, discussed and possibly accepted. I do not understand the reason why there is an extraordinary need to make changes to the Civil confiscation law. I recall that this is a Law which, in quite controversial hypotheses, allows different persons to take away property that goes to the state treasury. If we assume that in this case it is about diverted assets, assets of KTB, why not return them to the Bank's bankruptcy table if that is your goal? If your goal is different, why are you doing it at second reading through this Law without enough debate, without enough explanation, without sufficient legal expertise? It is obvious that all such proposals sent to the Constitutional Court have the same fate, because no changes can be made to the laws of one reading, and in this case I do not understand why it is necessary. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova explained in the previous text that the reformers have given up their proposals for amendments to the Fund because there are upcoming changes in this Law, which will be made in the normal order of two readings. Why, honourable reformers and honourable Mrs. Stoyanova, are you changing the principle in the next text? There will be changes to the Civil confiscation law. Why don't you leave this proposal to be discussed in the normal order in the Civil confiscation law, and do it between first and second readings in the Bankruptcy Act? Why the double approach?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u148	It's not a double.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u149	What is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u150	There's a new law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u151	The reformers have just given up their proposals and voted against them because, you see, the Law will change separately in the coming weeks. Well, I'm telling you, and you know very well that there are going to be changes to the Civil confiscation law. Why in an extraordinary way do you make these changes through the Bankruptcy Act? And why isn't Mr. Tsonev bringing them in and Mr. Danail Kirilov brings them in?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u152	First line, Mr. Kirilov. Second line, Mr. Bayraktarov. Third Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u153	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I very much hoped that you would keep this constructive spirit in which we discussed the changes and problems in the work group Adhok on this occasion. So I need to remind you of what you know. [[BSP LB.]] Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. I appreciate your trust.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u154	Mr. Kirilov! [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u155	I repeat parts of the debate, Mrs. Manolova, as we obviously did not accept the approach Mr. Yordan Tsonev proposed. Philip Popov also recalled several times a moment ago. If you remember, I suggested that we align the standards of control in commercial companies. Since it has not become clear whether or not it has been adopted, I have made this proposal explicitly and you see that we refer to the Tax Insurance Procedure Code to § 1. That is to say, we are uniformizing the definition of legal norms. Why? Because this is undoubtedly about cases of illegal property acquisition! That's what this is about, Mrs. Manolova! Some of the hypotheses will undoubtedly also refer to the application of this Law! I have told you that an amendment to the Law on embezzlement of illegally acquired property is imminent, and I believe that in about two weeks, such a change will be proposed accordingly. But that doesn't mean we don't have to do our job on this bill!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u156	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Manolova, I would agree with your arguments, which you have developed thoroughly, but if I had not participated in the meeting to be precise, at the last meeting of the Committee on Corruption. At this meeting there was also a representative of your political power. The protocol is classified for a reason. I would advise you to get acquainted with this protocol. I'm sure you'll change your mind. Your fellow Member, who was present, may introduce you, because what has been delivered to this Commission, makes me strongly support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u158	Third line, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u159	I mean, Mrs. Manolova was wrong. There's a difference in approach. First of all, there may be, there may be, there may be, there may be, there may be no changes. They haven't been imported yet. So I see nothing wrong exactly in the context of the KTB case, here in this Law, to make this change. However, when we talk about the Deposit Guarantee Fund Act, I will say that there is a new law, Mrs. Manolova, which cancels everything from the old law. Respectfully, it would also cancel those texts that we would eventually accept if we had accepted them. This Law is in parliament, between first and second readings. We'll be watching next week at the Commission. Things are totally different. Please don't manipulate the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u160	A hole, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u161	Dear colleagues, Madam President, Dear Mr. Bajraktarov and Mrs. Stoyanova! I would like to point out to you that the change we make does not apply to KTB. This isn't about KTB! It refers to absolutely all cases of civil confiscation. There are enough controversial hypotheses there, and our parliamentary group was originally against this Law because it gives huge powers, including abuse of which persons to fall under the blows of this law. When extending the scope of the Law, when the basic concepts applicable in the Law on Civil confiscation are extended, it is normal to become two readings when changes are made to the Law itself. You see, you didn't understand either, Mrs. Stoyanova didn't realize that we're not making this change for KTB. [[Reply of MP Stanislav Ivanov.]] Since she didn't understand, and she understands most of all about it, I guess the gym doesn't understand what it's all about either.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u162	There's someone who doesn't understand, but it's not Mrs. Stoyanova. Please, Mrs. Manolova! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u163	I don't know who the misunderstood one is, but in the end, we make changes to another law at one reading. I hope, dear Mrs. Tsacheva, at least you have understood that we are making a single reading change to the Civil confiscation law. [[crowd cheering]] For unlimited number of persons, for unlimited number of cases. So the specific hypothesis CTB in this text is irrelevant. And I do not understand why a change in such a law, which increases restrictions, is being made on the move, and not when this law will be opened in ten days in Parliament and will be discussed?! Excuse me, Mrs. Stoyanova, but you're misleading us about something else. However, you are making a change to the Deposit Guarantee Act in banks. You just did. Assuming that with a new law on the Fund the old Law will be repealed, then what is the point of this text?! That is, you do not make some proposals because there will be a new law, other proposals you make, even though there will be a new law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u164	In the break, you'll come clean.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u165	Yeah, I think it's important. All who are interested in the texts that we accept may have the opportunity to get acquainted with them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u166	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote § 19 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: 68 against 12, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u167	Proposal of the National Representative Petar Slavov to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of § 20. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 20: .................................................................................. The Credit Institutions Act shall make the following additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. 6 is created t. 10: ..10. The Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund in the case of 60a of the Bankruptcy Act and in the case of third parties, where they are subject to a cancellation claim. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 151, para. 3 sentence 3: The Court shall rule on the appeal within one month of the initiation of the first instance or cassation proceedings concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u168	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Quite briefly, colleagues, in order not to follow a new devastating criticism of extraordinary amendments to another law. I want to tell you that if we do not make this amendment with regard to banking secrecy, which we are currently doing in the Credit Institutions Act, then art. 60a, which we have introduced, will most likely not be working, because in the chain, when tracking where the property went, it probably went through other banks as well. In order for this to become clear, the court must disclose the banking secret in these transactions, and this will be done at the request of Mrs. Stoyanova, the Fund. I think this is a correct and very necessary proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u170	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to establish § 20 in the version of the Commission on the report. Vote 82 MPs: 68 against 6, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u171	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of § 21. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 21 and 22. .................................................................. This law also applies to pending cases initiated at the request of the Bulgarian National Bank under art. 37, para. 2 of the Law on Credit Institutions or in dispute with individual administrative acts of the Bulgarian National Bank under art. 36 of the Credit Institutions Act. § 22. The law has been in force since the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u172	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote paragraphs 21 and 22 on the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The proposal has been adopted, and with this the report at second reading. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. We'll continue at 12:10. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u173	Colleagues, the meeting continues with the next item of our weekly programme: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROCUREMENT OF CANDIDATES FOR A PRESIDENT AND MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION FOR ENERGY AND WATER REGULATION, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND RECOGNITION OF CANDIDATES IN THE ENERGY COMMISSION, AND THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. The report of the Energy Commission and the draft decision will present to us the President of the Commission Mr. Dobrev. We're listening, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u174	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chair and members of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Energy Commission and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 12 March 2015, the Energy Commission discussed the rules of procedure for holding a public procedure under art. 89 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of President and Members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. According to § 39 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act (SG, No. 17 from 2015) within one month of its entry into force, the National Assembly shall elect the President and the other members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. After the discussion, the Committee on Energy of 16 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that the following be considered and adopted by the National Assembly: Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chair and members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Energy Commission, and in the selection procedure by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chair and members of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Energy and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly I. Offering candidates for president and members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and submitting their documents. 1. Proposals for a Chair and members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall be made by Members of Parliament or by parliamentary groups. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Energy Committee through the President of the National Assembly within 7 days of the adoption of the Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. Proposals for a Chair and members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall be accompanied by written reasons which justify the good professional reputation of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) written consent of the applicant according to the template of the application to the decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher education with an educational and qualification degree of Master; (d) a criminal record; (e) documents certifying that the applicant proposed for: (aa) President shall comply with the requirement of professional experience under art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 point (e) in relation to § 1, point (e) 59 or 59a of the Additional Provisions of the Energy Act; (bb) a member with experience in the field of energy shall meet the requirement of professional experience under art. 12, para. 1, t. Paragraph 2 (a) and (b) of this Article shall apply mutatis mutandis from the date of entry into force of this Agreement and from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 59 of the Additional Provisions of the Energy Act; (c) a member with internship in the field of water supply and sewerage shall comply with the requirement of professional internship under art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 point (b) in relation to § 1, point (b) 59a of the additional provisions of the Energy Act; (d) a member of the Board of Directors shall comply with the requirement of professional experience under art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 (c) of the Energy Act; (e) a member who is an economist shall meet the requirement for professional internship under art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 (b) of the Energy Act. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The submitted proposal together with the documents attached to it shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly without delay, but not later than 5 days before the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposal and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Energy on the proposed candidates, including questions to be put to them no later than three days before the hearing of the candidates. 4. The mass media may send to the Commission on energy issues to the candidates to be assigned to it. 5. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Aleksandar I " No 1, Energy Commission, or by e-mail: komisia_energetika@parliament.bg. The opinions and questions are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. It's a hearing of the candidates. 1. Before hearing the proposed candidates, the Energy Commission shall verify the documents submitted and whether the applicant complies with the relevant requirements for the post for which it is proposed. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Energy Committee, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidates shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals in alphabetical order to the names of the candidates for Chairman and to the members within three minutes of a candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Candidates for the Chair shall present their concept of the Commission's energy and water regulation activities as a regulatory authority within 15 minutes of a candidate. Candidates for members shall present their concept of the Commission's energy and water regulation activities as a regulatory authority within 5 minutes of a candidate. 5. The Energy Committee shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates for the Chair and to the candidates for members in alphabetical order of the first names of the candidates within two minutes of the Member of the National Assembly for a candidate. Upon completion of the questions asked to the candidate concerned by all Members of the National Assembly, the applicant shall be responsible within 10 minutes. 6. The Chairman of the Energy Commission shall set out the questions of the persons referred to in Article in summary. 89, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received. 7. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 8. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 89, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing in which the candidates are represented. If several candidates for a position have been heard, the Energy Commission shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates, to which a list of candidates participating in the hearing shall be attached, alphabetically arranged for their own names and shall submit it to the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for the relevant position in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. IV. Election of President and Members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission by the National Assembly 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Energy Committee. 3. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 4. The National Assembly shall elect separately the Chair of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and four members with experience in the field of energy, two members with experience in the field of water supply and sewerage, one lawyer and one economist. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 7. Where none of the candidates for the position concerned receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for the position concerned shall take part. 8. If none of the candidates for the respective position receive the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. Annex to the Decision The delegation of power The undersigned (personal data) declare that I agree to be proposed for the post Declaration by the customs
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u175	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Are there any speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Veliv. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the plenary. There's a vote coming up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I exchanged a few words with President Dobrev before beginning the meeting, in the break, and it seems to me that here, these requirements, which are for a lawyer and an economist member are too general. Only legal internship for a lawyer and only internship in the field of economics for an economist member. You know that the initial proposal, which was supported, to have an increase in the composition, which is for the water, so that there are four specialists in the water sector, as there are four specialists in the energy sector, was not quite accepted, which means that the composition of the water system has only 2 specialists to the requirements so far. In this sense, I would ask, if possible, at the very least, even if it wasn't written in, but President Dobrev, if he wishes, to take an attitude, but nevertheless these lawyers and economists to have any relationship, some internship or to be preferred by us when, under equal conditions, when one of the candidates... Or to invite such candidates who definitely have internship in the water sector, as even if they attend meetings where the energy sector is, there will be 4 specialists in the field of energy and the economist and the lawyer will complement with their common legal or economic knowledge, but especially for the water company it seems to me that as complementary somehow it would be nice to have an internship in the water sector. I do not propose specific changes in order not to delay the adoption of the rules under service, but I would like to recommend at least one recommendation to the Commission and plenary that we prefer such lawyers and economists who have proven contributions to legislation or with some economic analyses and others who have participated in the water sector. I know these guys, I'm not gonna offer them, but I think we should do something.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u177	For the first line there is the word Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u178	Madam President, honourable Members! The first thing I want to remind you is that we are adopting rules right now, and we are not dealing with things that have already passed. Legally, whether it was okay or not is another thing. I also had then a proposal for a wider composition with more plumbing inside, but, unfortunately, it did not pass. So let's focus on the rules, and the second thing that is, there is no way in a committee that deals with energy issues and with water services and economists to be closely targeted only in the water sector. So, please, very much, let us go in order if we have any comments on the procedures for raising and validating, and so on, that the dispute be held around them and not on things that have long gone by. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u179	Second line? I won't. Would you like to use a hole, Mr. Veliv?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u180	Madam President, colleague Ermenkov! I think the understatement of the water sector continues with this line. I therefore believe that, in good faith, both the committee and the plenary could at least, in a sense, compensate for what was not done when the amendments to the Energy Act were adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u181	But only if it's within the law, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u182	Within the law!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u183	Any other MPs? I won't. Debates closed. I put to the vote the draft Decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for president and members of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Energy Commission, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Voting mode. Vote 82 MPs: 80, no objection, 2 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR MEDICAL ARTICLES. This bill is allocated to the Health Commission, which offers us a first-vote report. Mrs. Daritkova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I offer your attention. ♪ I can't believe First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Medical Devices Act, No 502-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2015. At its regular meeting held on 12 February 2015, the Health Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Medical Devices Act, No 502-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January. This Decision shall The meeting was attended by: Minister of Health Dr. Petar Moskov, Mrs. Mary Peycheva, Director of the Department of Legal and Normal Quality Insurance and Quality Management in the Executive Agency of the Medicines Agency, Mr. Yulian Yakimov, Chief Legal Consultant, Department of Medicine and Medical Products in the National Health Insurance Fund, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health, of patient and non-governmental organizations. The bill was presented by the Minister of Health. He briefed the members of the Commission on the objectives of the proposed legislative changes aimed at ensuring the implementation of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 920/2013 laying down and monitoring of notified bodies pursuant to Council Directive 90/385/EEC on active implantable medical devices and Council Directive 93/42/EEC on medical devices of 24 September 2013. (OJ L 253, 25 September 2013)). The draft provides for the transfer of the activity of assessment, designation, notification and monitoring of notified bodies for medical devices by the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision to the Drug Executive Agency (IAL). The reasons of the Bill state that the regulation of a procedure for assessing candidates for notified bodies at European Union level, without centralising that activity, guarantees dialogue between Member States and is based on a joint assessment by the national authority and the Commission by representatives of two other Member States and a representative of the European Commission. The draft provides that the Drug Executive Agency, which is a competent body for medical devices, will also perform the function of the.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 1 point (e) of Implementing Regulation (EU) No 920/2013, taking into account the specifics of the sector. The coordination of the designation and monitoring activities of notified bodies and market surveillance activities and the safety monitoring of medical devices within a single structure shall aim to facilitate the performance of the tasks of the designating authority. As that authority has the necessary information (incident reports, market surveillance reports on malfunctions of devices placed on the market, and others) leading to a possible failure to comply with the obligations of the notified body or a deviation from good practice, this information enables it to react promptly and quickly. The proposed bill ensures a uniform interpretation of the criteria for the designation of notified bodies by reference to Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 920/2013. The proposed legal changes shall introduce a requirement for applicants for notified bodies to use a uniform application form for all Member States and accompanying documentation in the template The bill establishes a legal regulation of the regularity of the annual planned inspections of notified bodies and their subcontractors, once every 12 months, for notified bodies with more than 100 customers and 18 months for other notified bodies. The proposed legislative changes do not introduce new regulatory regimes and fees for economic entities and do not create an additional regulatory burden for business. The conformity assessment authorisations for in vitro diagnostic medical devices will be issued in accordance with the national procedure in force described in the Medical Devices Act, as Implementing Regulation (EU) No 920/2013 is not applicable to them. In the course of the discussion Mrs. Mary Peycheva, Director of the Department of Legal and Normal Quality Insurance and Management at the Drug Executive Agency, expressed support for the draft on behalf of the Drug Executive Agency. It added that the legal regulation of the Drug Executive Agency as a designating authority under Implementing Regulation (EU) No 920/2013 would allow the Agency to perform all the functions and tasks relating to medical devices in order to achieve public health protection. In the written opinions of the National Health Insurance Fund, the Bulgarian Medical Association, the Bulgarian Dental Union, the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, the Bulgarian Medical Devices Trade Association is expressed support for the bill. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out, the National Assembly proposed to adopt the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Medical Devices Act No 502-01-10 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u185	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. I open the debates, honourable Members of the National Assembly. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Medical Devices Act, No 502-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2015. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The bill was adopted unanimously in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u186	Colleagues, we're going through. to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR HEALTH DISCLOSURE. The Minister of Health will be coming to the Chamber any minute now. Reports have been received from the committees to which the bill has been allocated. The Committee on Health is the lead. There is also a report from the accompanying Committee on Budget and Finance. For the first vote, the report of the Committee on Health will be presented to us by Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, No 502-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2015. At its regular meeting on 19 February 2015, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, No 502-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2015. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Health Dr. Petar Moskov, Deputy Minister of Health: Dr. Vanyo Sharkov, Dr. Boyko Penkov, Dr. Adam Persenski, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health, of patient and non-governmental organizations. The bill and its motives were presented by the Minister of Health. He briefed the MPs on the main proposals in it, explaining that the proposed legislative changes implemented part of the Council of Ministers approved on February 18th this year the concept of health goals 2020- which formulated Bulgaria's national long-term priorities in the field of protecting citizens' health as a factor for sustainable growth. First of all, the Minister of Health pointed out that the Bill provides for the restoration of the contractual start in determining valuation and payment methodologies for the volumes and prices of medical activities, the conditions and arrangements for monitoring the implementation of the contracts of medical aid contractors and penalties for non-compliance. These relations will be part of the National Framework Treaty on medical activities, respectively by the National Framework for dental activities. The bill provides for the recovery of arbitration committees, which will deal with the objections of the checked persons in the case of violations of the National Framework Treaty. Legal regulation is established for carrying out joint checks for compliance with the rules of good medical practice, good pharmaceutical practice, established medical standards, the Health Insurance Act and the National Framework Treaty. Joint checks will be carried out by the regional health insurance funds, the Medical Audit Executive Agency, the regional health inspections and the word organizations of doctors, dentists, nurses, midwives and associated medical professionals and master pharmacists, on a preliminary annual plan validated as provided for in the Bill. The aim of joint inspections is more effective control over the activities of medical aid contractors. The bill provides for the regulation of a legal obligation for the National Health Insurance Fund to carry out a study of the patient's satisfaction with the health services paid by the National Health Insurance Fund, as well as of legal grounds for termination of a contract with a medical contractor, in respect of which a systematic breach of quality requirements is found. A split of the package of medical services, paid with funds from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, is proposed as a basic and additional one. The medical activities included in the two packages will continue to be regulated by a regulation of the Minister of Health. A change in the number of the Cashier's Supervisory Board is envisaged, increasing with two representatives of the state, as well as a change in the terminology of the law regarding medical activities As part of the measures to improve the collection of health insurance revenues and increase the revenue of the National Health Insurance Fund, measures are proposed to increase citizens' personal responsibility in terms of the solidarity model. The Minister of Health noted the increase foreseen by the Draft Law by 5 per cent annually from the beginning of 2016, the amount of the health insurance income on which the State contributes to the persons under art. 40, para. 3 of the Health Insurance Act, until the minimum social security income is reached for self-insuring persons determined by the State Social Security Act. Changes in drug policy are in the direction of: establishing a legal regulation for the introduction of centralised negotiations of various types of concessions of medicinal products between the National Health Insurance Fund and holders of marketing authorisations or their authorised representatives in order to optimize the costs of the register, establishing a mechanism for negotiating concessions in the case of inclusion of medicinal products in the Positive Drug List. In this regard, the Bill provides that medicinal products for which no concessions are agreed are not to be included in the Positive Drug List. The Minister of Health also noted the proposed legal regulation for introducing an assessment of health technologies for inclusion in the Positive Drug List of medicinal products with a new international non-proprietary name aimed at carrying out a careful, multidisciplinary analysis of effectiveness and safety and other indicators of innovative medicinal products. In order to create clear algorithms for drug treatment, the Bill provides, within three months of the entry into force of the Law, for medical science companies to present pharmacotherapeutic guidelines, including criteria for assessing the efficacy of the therapy applied, as well as recommendations for algorithms for treatment with medicinal products to be approved by the National Council on Prices and Reimbursing of Medicinal Products. The Commission's written and oral opinions from the agreed, patient, non-governmental organisations have expressed support and specific recommendations have been made for amendments to the bill. The Presidents of the Executive Boards of the Bulgarian Medical Union "Dr. Tsvetan Raichinov," and of the Bulgarian Dental Union "Dr. Borislav Milanov," united in their speeches by expressing support regarding the proposed restoration of the contractual beginning in the definition of methodologies for the valuation and payment of medical activities, volumes and prices of medical activities, control over the execution of contracts with medical aid contractors and penalties in case of failure. The Chairman of the Management Board of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union Prof. Ilko Getov and the Chairman of the Bulgarian Association of Health Professionals Ms. Milka Vasileva expressed a positive opinion on the possibility of carrying out joint checks by members of the word organizations and state control bodies and the participation of the word organizations in the arbitration committees. In the context of the discussion, MPs submitted their comments and addressed questions to the Minister of Health, some of which related to the introduction of a basic and additional package of medical activities, the need to regulate criteria for assessing patient satisfaction. In response, Dr. Moskov noted that the Ministry of Health supports the creation of clear rules and criteria for assessing patient satisfaction without allowing opportunities for personal subjectivism. In order to effectively spend the means of health, a regrouping of financial resources is proposed by introducing a basic package of health activities paid by the National Health Insurance Fund, aimed at preventing and treating basic diseases causing death and loss of work, aimed at ensuring better child and mother health care, and introducing an additional package of health activities to allow planning through the waiting list. The additional package will include diseases that are not the main causes of the bad health-demographic status of the nation. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results, the draft amending and supplementing the Capital Insurance Act, No 502-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. We will now hear the report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u189	♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, No 502-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2015. At a meeting held on 18 February 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Vanyo Sharkov, who presented the bill. The main changes are the following: The Bill returns the contractual start in determining the methodologies for the valuation and payment of medical activities, volumes and prices of medical activities, the conditions and arrangements for the control of the execution of contracts between the National Health Insurance Fund and the medical care contractors, as well as the penalties for failure to comply with the contracts. In this way, these relations will be negotiated in the National Framework Treaty between NHIF and the Bulgarian Medical and Dental Union, thus strengthening the participation of word organizations in determining the quality criteria for carrying out medical activities and tracking the outcome of the treatment. The list of diseases whose home treatment NHIF pays medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes is intended to be validated by its Supervisory Board. In order to form health policy, the Minister of Health will validate the criteria for listing diseases and the operational activity will be carried out by the NHIF. The arbitration committees shall be restored, which will review the opinions of the persons examined Legal regulation is established for carrying out joint checks for compliance with the rules of good medical practice, rules of good pharmaceutical practice, rules of good practice of the established medical standards of the Health Insurance Act and the National Framework Treaty. They will be carried out by the Regional Health Insurance Fund, the Executive Agency for Medical Audit, Regional Health Inspections and Word Organizations. The National Health Insurance Fund undertakes to carry out a study on the satisfaction of patients from the healthcare services it pays, providing for the termination of a contract with a medical aid contractor, which indicates systemic frustration by the patient, as well as the termination of the contract with a medical care contractor, which systematically violates the quality requirements of the medical care provided for in national framework contracts. The package of medical services that the NHIF pays is divided into basic and additional, which will be regulated by a regulation of the Minister of Health. An increase in the composition of the NHIF Supervisory Board is envisaged with two representatives of the State, which will create conditions for the optimal performance of its duties, given the increase in its functions. The main activities of the management bodies of the NHIF are the use of public resources and it is therefore appropriate for the State to commit to more responsibilities in the management of the NHIF. It is planned to begin a gradual increase in the amount of the insurance income on which the State will contribute the health insurance contributions of the persons under art. 40, para. 3 of the Health Insurance Act by five per cent a year from the beginning of 2016 until the minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons determined by the State Social Security Budget Act is reached. As part of the measures to improve the collection of health insurance revenues and increase the revenue of the NHIF budget, in addition to increasing contributions from the state, additional measures are proposed to increase the responsibility of citizens, to participate with their personal contribution in the solidarity model. A centralised negotiation of various types of concessions of medicinal products between NHIFs and marketing authorisation holders or their authorised representatives shall be introduced with a view to reducing her expenses. A procedure for maintaining the reimbursement status of medicinal products for a period of three years shall be established. After the discussion, a vote was held, which ended with the following results:.................... 11 Members of Parliament,................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, No 502-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Now we should have heard the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u191	He's on his way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u192	Mrs. Daritkova informed me that Mr. Moskov is on his way. The debate is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in it to apply for this. Mr. Raynov goes first. You have the floor, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I think that the two reports marked the changes in the Health Insurance Act very thoroughly. I'm just gonna go with some of them. Among them are the proposals such as the return of the negotiations of prices and volumes between the NHIF and the word organizations, the return of the arbitration committees. I focus on the word "drop-off" because these were things that were in effect until 2010. However, in 2010 some of the people present canceled them again. I didn't bother to get the reasons they canceled. I'm gonna go with one of those things. Just a few days ago, we elected a new manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, which is strongly against the return of the negotiations on prices and volumes between the NHIF and the word organizations. Unlike you, I know why it is against.. because Dr. Glinka Komitov participated in the negotiation process in other years and saw how sometimes the negotiation process was stuck and it was impossible to sign a framework contract. Here again, I don't see what happens if it doesn't come to a framework contract. [[Income Minister Petar Moskov.]] I don't see the backup option that would interfere with blocking the health system. The next proposal in the Health Insurance Act we see something that borders on cynicism by 5% increase in the amount of the insurance income on which the state imports the insurance for the persons under art. 40, para. 3 of the Health Insurance Act 2016 while essentially maintaining the privileged position until 2025. So far the state was a debtor, had a commitment to pay money, now we legally say that it will not pay. It again remains in debt to the National Health Insurance Fund and to the health care system. I will not dwell on the nationalized 2 billion. lv. You know, in 2010 again, the burden on the health system falls on ordinary citizens, on these nearly 2 million working citizens, and the state stands aside and has no legal concerns about what it will pay and what it will not pay. Since the burden falls on the citizens again, we see how after the grace period we try to oblige the persons with suspended social security rights to recover them only 15 years back by 2000. This violates the Institute for the limitation of public liabilities. And one more thing: the state thus abdicates the responsibility it has for not collecting these contributions against the violation of the legal rights and interests of its citizens. We come to the most important health package. According to the current Act, the main package of health activities is currently guaranteed by the National Health Insurance Fund. What's available here? The new proposal is to split the basic package of health activities guaranteed by the NHIF budget into basic and additional packages with the regulation of the possibility of paying an additional package and by persons engaged in voluntary insurance. This is essentially the general change of the health insurance model established in the Republic of Bulgaria. We are therefore changing the public contract between citizens paying contributions and the National Health Insurance Fund, which must offer them services against these contributions. Simply put, people paying contributions don't know what they're going to get against them right now. In the bill amending the existing Health Insurance Act, the concept is not broken in full and the legal consequences that will result from the same are not clarified. The reasons for the bill also do not clarify the purpose of the proposed change, as well as in failure to comply with art. 28 of the Law on Laws does not show the financial resources needed to implement the new regulation, and most importantly the expected results of the application of the Law. There is uncertainty about the volume of activities guaranteed in the NHIF budget. Will it guarantee only the basic or the basic and additional packages? In case it will cover both packages, how will the institution's obligation to pay the activities of the supplementary package relate to the obligation of insurance companies to the same package? If one person is provided in the NHIF and additionally, who will take what here there is no answer. In the event that guaranteeing an additional package is an alternative option, the following questions shall be raised. Will the mandatory health insurance individuals have different provision options in the NHIF for the main or the main and additional packages only? Will the legal effects on the amount of the compulsory health insurance contribution be the same in the provision of the NHIF only for the basic or will they be different when it is provided for a basic and additional package? How will it affect and what will be the consequences of dividing the package with regard to medicinal products, medical devices, dietary foods paid in full or in part by the NHIF? As you can see, this change raises much more questions than it offers solutions. I've spoken to some of my colleagues, including the government, who have a positive mood, and I'm delighted that you see, we're cutting off the extra health insurance. I remind my fellow Members who have not been to the 40th Parliament that there has been no additional health insurance for a long time. We remember what the motives were when health insurance was closed and everything went to the insurance segment in the market. You mean questions, questions, questions. We come to the next question about the transfer of responsibility for the list of diseases for which the Ministry pays the Cassata treatment. In principle, the state through the Minister of Health should define the framework, philosophy and policy, depending on the state strategy and priorities for the development of health care, as well as the definition of the notorious socially significant diseases in the country, and the NHIF, as a financing institution, should implement the legislation and control the spending of public funds. With this he fully agreed and confirmed it here the newly elected governor of the NHIF. In accordance with art. 14, para. 1 of the Law on Drugs in Human Medicine Drug policy is part of the state health policy in the Republic of Bulgaria and is implemented by the Minister of Health. At the same time, the list of diseases the NHIF pays for is part of the country's drug policy. It is on this basis that the Minister is the authority to determine the list cited in the regulation. Therefore, the texts proposed in the Draft Law, by which the Minister of Health is deprived of a substantial power, one of the few powers in the field of drug policy, while the same thing is unduly transferred to the responsibilities of the National Health Insurance Fund, on the Supervision of the National Health Insurance Fund. Accordingly, the supervision of the NHIF is the management body of the institution whose main function is to spend the funds from health insurance contributions, health insurance payments. Period. By law, the NHIF provides for the implementation of health policy. Under no circumstances is she allowed to create a new health policy! On that basis, the proposal for the transfer of powers to determine the list in question of supervision of the Cashier does not meet its competence and functions. The next thing is an increase in the supervisory quota with two more of the state, with which the supervision of the Casa reaches eleven people, of which six of the state and five of the other organizations. The decisions in supervision of the Cashier shall be taken by a simple majority. Here comes the question: what imposes this thing, provided that the President of Oversight is Deputy Minister of Finance, there are two of the ministers of the Minister's deputies in Oversight and two other people are offered. supposed two other Deputy Ministers of Health who should enter there? Once again we go to the option: in this situation is it not easier for the supervision of the Casa to become a directorate of the Ministry of Health? As we have fixed budgets, from now on things become much simpler for management and for administrative control. My fellow Members, these are just some of the problems I would not like to waste your time on with a detailed explanation of all the other problems that are bet on in this Bill. Finally, I conclude with the fact that the widely advertised changes to the Health Insurance Act will in no case improve the access of Bulgarian citizens to health services. None of the major health issues are solved! And something very important. While the society has now been divided only in social aspect of the poor and rich (including I am tempted to quote today an agency, which is rather right, even they say that 700 000 citizens live below the poverty line), with this bill we are already creating new dividing lines in Bulgarian society in health! Until now, we've shared them in health insurance and health insurance uninsured. We are now creating a new plank of the insured, the conscientious who pay each month the health contribution, we are dividing them by those who have access to the health services now and immediately, and others who are already in the waiting list and will wait, will wait, will wait. Perhaps you can tell us what they'll be waiting for. As long as you don't happen to be on that list, colleague. Finally, I am tempted once again to remind the Minister that he is a minister of all Bulgarian citizens and should defend their interests and not act as president of a word organization. There are other controls there. For these reasons, BSP left Bulgaria and Bulgaria will not support the Bill, although, as a matter of fact, there are several rational things that we would support. But in general, because it is a first reading, we do not support the philosophy of this Bill, which once again divides society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u194	Thank you, Dr. Raynov. Replices, honourable colleagues? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Next statement? Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will not be analyzing the entire bill, and I would like to comment to you two points from it. The first one is...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u196	If you don't mind, I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u197	I apologize. The first accent is based on dividing the packages into basic and additional. The introduction of this separation has financial considerations for this, and the considerations are to focus on socially significant diseases and those that determine the underlying mortality. Something I'm widely supportive of. Secondly, the creation of a second pillar of funding is proposed through, I stress, personal contributions, including through private health insurance companies. Honourable Members, this is important for the regulation of additional payments, avoiding the additional payments that exist at the moment, directly from the patient, of cash payments such that they should be regulated further with health insurance contributions. And next, this is the path on which the monopoly of a single Health Insurance Fund will be removed, which will cover all treatment and consumables, including costly medical supplies. The second focus I would like to share with you the quality control, patient satisfaction and effectiveness of the treatment. A very important condition in the overall process of the effectiveness of the treatment, which is implemented with a public resource. In a way, this and now is achieved through the algorithm of clinical pathways, but this is not enough. I approve of the thesis, the opinion, the idea of inclusion of the word organizations in this control. The Bulgarian Medical Union, the Pharmaceutical Union, the Union of Health Care Professionals, midwives, sisters, in the group of these examiners will be the Chief Representative of the Ministry in the Regions and the Chief Controller on behalf of the Ministry, of the Medical Audit. I stress that here are the experts, here are the qualified people who can do an additional analysis of the quality and results of the treatment. Lastly, I would like to say that these are marked basic intentions and very important to all of us will be the regulations that we are about to see and which will bring further clarity in the way of applying the ideas enshrined in this Bill. That's how I see it. My colleagues from GERB's Parliamentary Group will support the Bill at first reading. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u198	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Ivanov, I see you're raising your hand, but before you there are others who signed up. I will try to alternate the speeches from the parliamentary groups. That's why I'm giving Mr. Veliv the floor now. Then Mr. Ademov, Mr. Gokov, Mrs. Cerovska and Mr. Ivanov. [[Reply.]] And I'm gonna put you on that list. I need time to record a lot of people who want to. Mr. Veliv, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! In accordance with art. 143 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly declare private interest within the meaning of the Law on Conflict of Interest. Then I will speak on the spirit of the Law, which we must adopt today, which is correct, but with the awareness that we must make a ZID to act in practice as well. What has already been said by colleague Emil Raynov gives me reason to emphasise the issue of compulsory concessions, which is highlighted as a means of predictability and cost reduction of the Casa, to do so in a way that does not violate the interests of the patient, but rather to protect them. What gives me reason for such a judgment? If we assume that there is a single medicine for a disease, it will probably be a rarer disease that is created by a pharmaceutical company after long studies, as you know, it has gone through the relevant clinical studies, it has gone through the approval of an EMA, or FDA, EMA for us is probably the important one, it is registered in the country, respectively, but it does not achieve an agreed discount between the company manufacturer and the holder of the authorisation or, respectively, a representative from here, if no discount is achieved, as the company, for example, cannot afford more than 3%, and the NHIF, for example, wants 10 or 20%, then this medicine, even if it is only for the given disease, will not be included in the Positive Drug List and consequently the patients will have to pay themselves, or come to some adverse consequences. It could also possibly be excluded from the Positive Drug List if, for any reason, including an assessment of health technology, it is concluded that this drug is not effective enough, although in most cases, manufacturers use lately molecular genetic methods to ensure that the drug is shown. In this regard, we see in § 11, paragraphs 6, 7 and 8, that the criteria for compulsory centralised negotiation of concessions are laid down in a sub-legal regulation. In order to avoid speculation that there could be undue influence on the market and to limit competition, of course, but also the access of patients to drug authorisation by the European Agency in particular, is it not more correct to sign the criteria relating to such a general change in the Law, as it would be appropriate, or at least to comply with the Decree implementing the Law on Legislative Acts. 45, para. 1, The draft implementing act of the Law shall be drawn up together with the Bill and shall be adopted from the date of entry and so on? At the very least, I would ask the Minister as an importer to say here, before us, what are these criteria for mandatory centralised bargaining of concessions, to make sure that there will be no subjective element and so that such a set-up can not be attacked by our opposition opponents as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u200	Thank you, Assoc. Gorgeous. - What's the line? I don't see anyone willing. We continue with the speech Mr. Hasan Ademov, please come to the stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I begin with great regret that with this bill, Mr. Minister, you have missed the opportunity to seek a non-party consensus between the parliamentary represented political forces. Why am I saying this? Because I am convinced that, both I and my fellow Members in the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, that such unpopular measures in health, social security and assistance are always sustainable only if supported by the majority of the parliamentary groups. Again, I'm very sorry that you missed the opportunity to seek consensus. As far as I understand from my colleagues in the ruling coalition, their opinion has not been sought before the introduction of the bill in plenary, but this is a problem that you must solve within the coalition. However, Mr. Minister, before I proceed to the main part of my speech, I would like to try to formulate two issues that I think are very important. The first question is: why was the Health Insurance Bill submitted to the Council of Ministers and subsequently to the National Assembly without agreeing with the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation? It was necessary to examine the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation at the insistence of employers and trade unions after the Law was voted on in the Committee on Health. Dear Minister, you are a representative of right-wing political power, of democratic political power, and democracy implies compliance with rules and procedures. These are procedures and rules, written in laws. My request is that you be so kind as to adhere to the legal texts, to the procedures and rules, because this is actually the core of democracy, and respect for the rules and procedures for which you have repeatedly insisted and rightly insist. Next, and this is the second question: you have repeatedly stated that this is one of the important laws, the fundamental laws that will change the health insurance system, will optimize the costs in the system, will introduce order and rules. It turns out, however, that either what you are saying is not true, which I doubt or is not explained in the other position,................... the Insurance Act was submitted to the National Assembly on 2 February 2015........ on 19 February 2015 was adopted to the Committee on Health and only after nearly a month it enters the Chamber. If you had insisted before the National Assembly's leadership that this was a Law that should have been passed in very short time, things would have looked different. Because in this case there is the doubt that there is some problem, there are some contradictions that you want to resolve in this period, but this, I repeat, is your problem. Of course, we in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms cannot fail to support obvious intentions to improve control by introducing joint control. There we have some notes of the kind of participants in this joint control. For example, regional health inspections on mine have no business there. The quality check is in the jurisdiction, under all the rules of art, of the word organizations, and the medical audit is the one who can verify the quality in terms of compliance with standards, as recorded in the Health Act. And what's more, Minister, in terms of arbitration. There must also be changes in the composition of those involved in the arbitration itself in order for it to be effective. With regard to the so-called...... of the contractual beginning.................................................................................................. Yes, we all applaud, we all applaud the restoration of the contractual beginning, only remember those who were then in the National Assembly, why was the mechanism of volumes and prices introduced to be determined by the Council of Ministers, provided that no negotiation was reached? Now you are in a wonderful relationship, in good relations with the Medical Union, signing the Framework Treaty, but if there comes a time when at the end of the year they refuse to sign the Framework Treaty, who will determine the volumes and prices? I mean, the defense mechanism is missing. I'm not saying the Council of Ministers should do this. I'm saying there should be maximum effort to reach agreement, negotiate, but the defense mechanism is gone. All of a sudden, it's blocking the mechanism, it's not gonna be able to operate the system, and then we're gonna have to do what we did that year again, and I don't remember who it was anymore. And another clarification. In our opinion, the term "reform" is used too frivolously. I am extremely pretentious about the content of this word, called the reform. If we ethymologically refer to the content of the word "reform," we will understand that it is a new form, a new design. However, in no case are we talking about parametric changes of the model, none of the parameters are changing. Some measures are proposed that, in your opinion, will lead to optimization of the system. What is being proposed now is, in my opinion, measures, not reform. I would like to say a few more words, honourable Members, on the subject of the new structure of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund. I understand that you're above these things as a three-party management of the National Health Insurance Fund. You are above such things as Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation. You are above such things as the participation of the non-governmental sector in the management of public funds. But, Minister, who gives you the right-wing right-party right-wing right-wing right-wing authority? You offer two additional people from the state quota, given that your team has already exhausted the quota from your political cabinet. You can safely turn to the leader of your party, he can turn to Minister Lukarski on the tested scheme and finally take it away from the secretary, as said in such cases. However, the Reformation bloc will not be tempted to offer its own candidates to the Supervisory Board. And you know why. Because there is no payment for participation there, dear Minister! Next, I just want to tell you two numbers. On average the insured persons pay 46.40 BGN. Those who are the active part of the Bulgarian population, or annually BGN 557,29, and the state pays monthly BGN 20,22. or an annual BGN 242,66 Against this background, given that you are burdening the active part of the population, working people, you are suddenly proposing that the state, which pays nearly three times less than insured persons, be involved in the management of Oversight with two more people, take responsibility. We'll see what the responsibility will be at the end of the year. And something else, dear Minister. In this case, it is a drastic violation of solidarity. This is a devastating blow to solidarity because active Bulgarian citizens lose interest in providing them with compulsory health insurance. They lose confidence in the fact that the state pays less and participates with more people in Oversight. You understand what this is about. More than that. The representatives of your parliamentary group rightly speak very often of restoring justice. Dear Minister, in the proposal you are making, you are actually disturbing the sense of justice. What do I mean? They pay a small amount of people. They are not represented in the supervision of the Cashier. It is natural that they will have reason to lose confidence in the system. A few more words. Many things have been said about the basic and additional package. You will remain in history, Mr. Minister, as the minister who has officially introduced the extra payment and the waiting list. Very often you talk about criteria, you often use the expression: clear criteria, rules, procedures. Tell me, what are the clear criteria for entering the waiting list?! The main package was created with the presumption that the health insurance of all Bulgarian citizens should stand behind each patient. That's the point of a solidarity model. With this proposal to break up the basic package, you, although apparently pursuing health goals, because pursuing such goals is the right policy, breaking solidarity and creating an awful lot of questions. Who's gonna get on the waiting list? This will be determined by regulations. Who knows to date what this basic package will look like you're talking about? And can you tell us with just one sentence... whether this additional package is part of the compulsory health insurance or is it out of it? If he's out of it, who's gonna pay? They will pay the insured Bulgarian citizens, they will pay the insurance funds. But if we put in one hole of the basic package provided by the insurance legislation, where insurance risks are paid, and insurance companies who pay for damage, what will come out of this mechanism? What will be this vague European practice absurdity?! Therefore, Mr. Minister, my request is that you think seriously about what these packages should look like so that your proposals can be met. And one more thing. Where are the guarantees that those who enter the main package of the Socially Important Diseases, Children's and Mother's Health Care will be guaranteed funding in this budget of the Health Insurance Fund?! You're in the middle of a budget. You're going to increase the prices of clinical pathways? Where will you save financial resources? These are questions that are waiting for their answers and you know that these are not Adhok questions, are not questions about nagging, and in my opinion are at least serious questions. A few words regarding the measures to increase the collection rate, and that concludes. What you are proposing, Mr. Minister, is a devastating blow to the figure of the limitation of public debt. You know there's a D.O.K., you know there's a limitation period?! How does what you're suggesting happen? By the way, there is a very serious question here? You are about the majority of Bulgarian citizens being provided, or are you for something else? I firmly state that we are about the scope of the Bulgarian citizens to be greater. You, as a representative of right-wing political power, instead, offer these in my opinion exotic measures, and you had to propose something else. You should have had a serious conversation with the head of the National Revenue Agency. You should have had a serious conversation with the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, because nearly 100,000 are Bulgarian citizens who are permanently unemployed with registration over one year. Nearly 200,000 are the unemployed who are registered for over two years. I mean, about 350,000. It's the people who want to, but they can't be provided. This is a serious discussion. You should have talked to the head of the NRA about how to improve the collection rate. You should have talked to the head of the NRA about how 254 thousand Bulgarian citizens can provide information, but because of lack of trust they do not. All these questions await their answer, dear Minister. And they cannot be compensated for the behavior you have in public appearances. You don't need artistry, emotionality. You need to offer management solutions. Unfortunately, what you are proposing is not management decisions, but rather populism, which cannot be supported by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u202	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. You've got about three minutes left in the group before the extension. Dr. Moskov, you've been taking a lot of notes. I'll give you the floor if you want, and if you want to wait to hear more speeches. Minister Moskov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u203	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, thank you for the very valuable things that, on behalf of the Council of Ministers as an importer, I listen and take notes. Of course, there is therefore a parliamentary procedure between first and second reading for each of the very well-founded concerns or wishes to improve the texts in the law so that they can be cleared. In short, I will say a few things in general and then respond to some of the accumulated things. With the changes in the Health Insurance Act, we do basically the following things. First, we clear the sources of funding in the system. By configuring the basic and additional package and supplementing them from the emergency package, the commitments are clear: the country's commitments to the emergency package, the commitments of compulsory health insurance to the basic package and with a claim to the additional, and the ever-growing opportunity, I hope, voluntary health insurance will enter with a real reason for us to look for it, and it will offer us as citizens flexible packages. This is one of the pillars of clear sources of funding. It's clear what kind of funding he's in charge of. The second amendment, which in part in this Law begins and in the laws which currently bear their preparation, respectively, for medical institutions and for health, will be supplemented. This is the answer to the question why the money is being spent on these pre-arranged clearly fixed directions. In other words, the old idea, which I hope you all share, will start paying for the result and stop paying for the activity. This is related to, once again, a really clear regulation regulation regulation regulation, firstly, quality criteria, for which the Cashier, on behalf of me, as health insurance, evaluates the activities of the medical establishment and, secondly, clear criteria for patient satisfaction. I'm in a hurry to open the clamp and say we can't find the hot water. I didn't invent this, my team didn't invent it, it didn't invent the majority. Such quality and satisfaction criteria are clear, described in specific tables, available in each of the good European countries. The second group of problems that we are looking for a solution to through the amendments to the Law is the different approach to the way regulation and the way public funds pay the medicines. We foresee a number of texts.. this also has not frozen matter and can tolerate an improvement between first and second readings... which, first, guarantee that the medicines we pay through our health insurance contributions will only happen when there is their guaranteed effectiveness. The study of health technologies, which is a long and serious scientific process, is something very different from anything that the Bulgarian state has done so far and which makes every self-respecting European state to really prove the effectiveness in relation to the price of this drug and only after that to be subject to inclusion in public funds. If someone is arguing with this, it really means arguing with the whole European practice. Thirdly, we return and improve mechanisms that have been proven to be good in practice. Contrary to what some of you think of me, I am looking for discussions and consensus with both responsible organizations and the pharmaceutical industry and NGOs. That is, the contractual beginning, the arbitration, all these steps are really important in order for all participants, all the holders of opinions in this system to stand behind consensus, as happened, by the way, for the first time in many years, this year. For the first time, all the way was travelled and the word organizations stood not only behind the framework contract but behind the price methodology and behind the mechanisms recorded inside for compliance with budgetary control. I can't remember when this thing happened before that, and if you're honest, you're going to give it to this majority and this political will to do it. Specifically. First of all, I'd like to thank Mr. Raynov. He said I wrote it down, wrote a lot while the ladies and gentlemen spoke. He said: "What is proposed by the Council of Ministers is a general change of the insurance model. I very much ask that this be remembered by everyone who lives and continues to live with the point that the government does not propose changes and does not propose reforms. Because when this was found by the opposition, obviously it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u204	That's a hell of an argument!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u205	Excuse me? I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u206	Please don't replicate from where the Minister is!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u207	The basic and additional package and how this would damage patients' interests. This statement is either absolutely false, i.e. false, or means a misunderstanding of what is actually happening to Bulgarian patients now. I have no idea. Perhaps you really have no idea, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, how the treatment of Bulgarian citizens is carried out. It is currently not guaranteed, although in the Law you have recorded that the Cashier guarantees it. It's not free, even though you wrote it in the Law, it's free. You're saying that splitting a base and an extra package will make health care for the poor and rich. On the contrary, the introduction of a basic and additional package actually equalizes access, regardless of the social status of each Bulgarian health insurance citizen, to the possibility of quality and full treatment against mass, socially significant diseases, what is currently not a fact. It's not a fact! If you go to a Bulgarian hospital I do not know if you are going and where you are being treated you will see really waiting queues for important, life-threatening, socially significant diseases. With the formation of the base package in the valuation of its activities, the extension of its limits we will ensure for the health-insured Bulgarian citizens the possibility of adequate, full and free treatment for each group of these diseases that lead to poor social-demographic indicators. Everything else is either a misunderstanding of reality or really ugly. The waiting lists that I was going to be famous for introducing them to. Last week I had the opportunity to say that the waiting lists are part of the legal documents of the Republic of Bulgaria since 2005.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u208	Since 2007
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u209	Excuse me? 2005!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u210	Come on in 2006.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u211	Well, let it be 2006. It's basically about the same political period if we have to argue about it. Either way, they're part of it. Each Bulgarian hospital and now under the Access Regulation has the obligation to develop its criteria and mechanisms for forming the waiting list.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u212	They're not listed in the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u213	That is, you are denying that this is a fact of 2005. This is a legal act, you are an informed person, you will not argue about it. I mean, this thing has already been introduced. What we do with the formation of the base package, I say again: we remove the possibility against mass and socially significant diseases to form waiting lists as it is now. Do you know how many people are waiting for cancer? [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Do you know, Mrs. Manolova, how many people are waiting for cancer care right now? You don't know, do you?! I know! That's why we're gonna change that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u214	You're speculating.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u215	No, I don't speculate, I talk to facts. They speculate those who say that at the moment for Bulgarian citizens everything is free because that is what the Law says. Go out on the street and ask them if it's free. Once again, what we are doing is really ensuring that every Bulgarian citizen can have adequate and modern treatment without waiting. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Mrs. Manolova, I really can't answer everything you care about in this life, but I'll try. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u216	Colleagues, I ask you to understand that we adhere to certain procedures in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u217	Excuse me, Madam President. Maybe it's my fault. To the question: who pays the State's contribution was adequate? That was unfair. On the contrary, the requirement of enlargement on the basis of paying, of course, and through consequences for those who do not pay, is actually justice. Because to say that the state should continue to pay for someone much more means to reload the million or a million and a half Bulgarian citizens, Dr. Ademov, who, first, pay their insurance, second, pay their taxes and through their taxes the state finances certain social groups. That's not fair, is it?! Because the state doesn't find that money anywhere, the state takes it out of my taxes again. That is, the commitment of the state is clear. In this Law, for the first time a clear commitment has been signed to increase the State's commitment to health insurance contributions of persons who guarantee their health insurance status through the State, as described in the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u218	Then let the state do nothing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u219	Look, we can phantom this conversation, of course, but you know I'm right. When you say the Member, you mean people's taxes. And let's not make this speculation. So the purpose of this thing is to expand the total on the basis of payment. In this regard, based on the absolutely objective questions that Dr. Ademov asked. What we're doing right now. The NRA is in the process of developing an active register under EGN, which will actively inform every Bulgarian citizen on a monthly basis of a non-compliance with his name health insurance contribution. The aim of this reform in the way health insurance is to stop talking about 200, 400 or 600 thousand. We also had an argument with the NRA about what kind of literature is to call 200,000 discouraged and 200,000 permanently discouraged.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u220	It's a statistic.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u221	It's literature, Mr. Ademov, and you know it. Permanently discouraged and discouraged is not statistics, but an emotional state. Statistics mean the following: to make mechanisms and this is what we do, through which every Bulgarian citizen has the model, its channel through which he acquires his health insurance status. There are different groups, I will stop in detail because this is important and it is speculation from the point of view of the objectives of the law. There is a group of about 130,000 people who are young children who are between graduations, when they are health assured and start their student life pass several months in preparation, in exams. Within this framework, they lose their health insurance status. This group is not provided through their parents mainly due to lack of information. We've planned a massive information campaign in the schools so that it can stop. Then for every Bulgarian citizen, remember what huge amount of social indications essentially the state covers as insurance for the people. For every Bulgarian citizen who does not fall within the social networks of the state as health insurance, but believes that there is such status, we foresee and develop compilation of several - you were a social minister - and now the existing document of the social ministry with clear criteria for what it means socially weak, within it and every Bulgarian citizen who cannot, believes that he cannot pay his health insurance for social reasons, will make, actively, however, on his behalf in the local ASP a wish for an individual social survey, it will be conducted, and if it proves to be such a status, the state will make a commitment to provide it. It's a way for the socially weak to be able to get back inside the system, to be controlled.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u222	There's a procedure for that now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u223	No, now there is a procedure in which, in the event of suffering, Dr. Ademov, the social worker pays the particular result of the treatment. It's completely different.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u224	I'm talking about the social poll.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u225	Are you saying that the state is currently providing through an active inquiry procedure? No, right? I think so, too. But he's going to start doing it, and that's the solution for the socially weak. Otherwise, about the question of limitation and what the proposed project by the Council of Ministers provides in relation to how much, how and how the health insurance status of citizens is restored. There is sufficient legal justification made up of the lawyers of several ministries, on the basis of which we clearly say that there are precedents so far. First, it is clear in the Constitution that every Bulgarian citizen has the right to health care and treatment, as set out in a special law. A special law is precisely the law whose amendments you are examining today. In other words, the way this is happening does not contradict the Constitution because it is said that these relations are governed by this special law. There is a limitation period of 3 years in the Debt Act. In the DPK, which is special to the Law on Duty Law, there is a limitation period of 5 years. In that sense, another time limit may be provided for the special law of the WIPO. But we are not saying that the IRS or NRA will actively seek from you, Dr. Ademov, if this is your case, your criminal health contributions more than 5 years ago. We are simply saying that if, after 1 January 2016, you continue for any reason, that is to say, you did not apply for a social health status study and proof of social weakness, you did not recover socially required health contributions, given that you had the opportunity, we say that you should be so good if you want to enter a health care facility as health insurance, to pay your contributions back from the moment of the occurrence of health insurance obligations in the country, voluntarily. Be so kind. If not, seek your own way in life, because solidarity means the following. If you and I pay 15 years, we're either idiots or we want the same from everyone else. If you're contradicting this, you're making me doubt whether it makes sense to keep paying health insurance. It's beautiful to talk about how we load some people, only these people actually load us, the paying and the system, and give the system the inability to treat quality. The less money the system works, the more treatment is compromised accordingly. So I ask you not to send a bad signal from this House that this thing may continue, because when it comes out on the Ministry's website the law, I have listened to including present MPs, a clear signal to society: calmly, this will not happen, we know a legal way in which you will not be forced to pay health contributions. That's a bad signal for me. And please don't do that!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u226	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u227	Okay, people heard it that way, I assure you. In addition, we give a six-month minimum, in my opinion, it should change by the end of 2016, an opportunity for every citizen in the current, before the possible adoption of changes in the Law ways, i.e. with contributions up to 3 years back, if he has accidentally decided never to pay health contributions, to restore his health insurance rights. But if, after 1 January 2016, he enters this clause, let him be really good enough to be adequate to what you and I and each of you and every law-abiding Bulgarian citizen have done in the years. On the matter of supervision of the Cashier. It's strange that a very, very big noise has been made around this. The case is followed by the second distributor of public funds, from over 3 billion. Annually. You vote in this Chamber of Health policies, you think they are the right policies. You assumed they were like that. In order for these policies of yours to be implemented, by political responsibility in the Ministry, through administrative coordination in hospitals and through the Cashier's Financial Mechanism, you must have the guarantee that these policies are conducted and not conducted differently than those voted in the Parliamentary Republic, in Parliament health policies. To this end, an increased level of responsibility is required within the supervision of the Cashier. Because would you remind me of someone last year when several updates were made to the Casa's budget, any of the partners inside the Supervisory Board, were they responsible? Has anyone called for responsibility from a patient organization, or from a syndicate, or from an employers' organization for the double outburst last year on the Casa budget? No. You all went to the state and she paid for this thing. If the state is the one responsible, let it be able to carry out certain decisions, I say again, arising from the policy that you have voted on here in this House. The failure to change the management of the Cashier, which is somehow fixed as a very major problem in this law, is actually telling me the following. That you are satisfied with the way the Cashier is being managed at the moment. This means that you are satisfied with the lack of absolutely any transparency in the way money is spent. This means that you are pleased with the fact that this body is the Executive Board and operational management of the cassata allow each year to blam the basic law of the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u228	It's not like that. What you're saying is not the authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u229	Do you think that the powers of supervision are not to guarantee the Cashier's budget?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u230	They're signed in the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u231	The Cashier's supervision has nothing to do with the Cashier's budget, is that what you're telling me?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u232	The House's budget is linked to parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u233	Please don't enter into a debate with the Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u234	To the voted budget of the Cashier and its compliance are the management bodies of the cashier, right, Dr. Ademov? If you're satisfied with the way this has happened so far, I think you're one of the few. That's why change is needed there. We need a high degree of responsibility, we need the state to be able to ensure that a certain policy is conducted through the financial levers that the Cashier has. Much more can be said about the changes in the law between first and second readings. Here, and in the Commission, I have heard very reasonable things about clearing the arbitration process and supplementing certain clauses in the contractual beginning. I guess there's other things we could talk about. I really ask you at the philosophical level to support this law at first reading, because, as the opposition said, this creates a general change in the way of health insurance. Isn't that right, Dr. Raynov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u235	Thank you, Mr. Moskov. Colleagues, there are six other Members of Parliament to speak. [[Heckling]] We have less than 4 minutes, but we can still hear another speech on order to enable all parliamentary groups. Mr. Bayraktarov, you're up. Last statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u236	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I'll try to get into those four minutes. The people who spoke before me are mainly members of the Health Committee. Many of these debates were held precisely in this Commission and a large part of them were attended by you, Mr Minister, but I would still like to draw attention to some important points, because it is important to know. In fact, what were the debates about? They were not conducted, and you very rightly noted, Mr. Minister, as a final result quality of the health service or the purpose of healing the patient quickly and fully, most debates were about how some money was to be used. Something the Patriotic Front cannot approve in any way and will never agree. On numerous occasions in this Chamber of the Patriotic Front, we have stated that it is high time to put an end to this vicious practice of quality activities. In fact, what are the results today in the field of health, which has become an area of non-health. In the past 20 years Bulgaria has become the sickest nation in Europe. Moreover, we have become a country in the first place in sick children between the ages of 12 and 16. Just a few days ago, I was quoting the official statistics of the World Health Organization. I even wonder that doctors here were speaking in a philosophy that in no way a person engaged in this activity should not even comment. Mr. Ademov, I appreciate your opinion, but you said today that the insurance of all other Bulgarians is behind every Bulgarian. Believe me, I do not want my insurance to stand behind people who purposely, intentionally do not participate in this system. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] I am not convinced that there are such people who will support such an idea. Let us not tarnish and not continue this wicked practice of a solidarity model, which you see, brings at some point to a state when the Bulgarian society must collect money by donation to send another child to treatment abroad. This is bad practice, and it is through this law that measures are being sought to limit it. Moreover, I have heard many colleagues speaking here, but, after all of you, colleagues, again, I say to you, most of you doctors, are so concerned, I would ask you: where do you treat yourself? Where do you treat yourself?! I made a modest reference to myself and it turns out that a large part of this............the parents of the development of Bulgarian healthcare, by some chance always prefer to go to treatment abroad, which is indicative, dear Minister, that you are on the very right path that the quality of health has fallen below any level.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u237	Give an example.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u238	There's no way I'm going to set an example, because I'm going to break the law, and I'm going to have to take out...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u239	Which law?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u240	...facts of the health status of a person who is forbidden by law, otherwise I would very much like to point out. I'll stop there. I'll continue with my speech. Many people have spoken here about the control of spending money from the Health Insurance Fund. Again, I will repeat only three months ago the previous head of this Casa, in front of a large part of the MPs in the Budget Committee, in a straight text, said that the Casa and the management of the funds in this Casa was carried out without any control. I'm asking: is that what we need to stimulate? To continue 3 billion to be spent without control! [[Reply from DPS.]] No, of course not! However, I did not hear any argument in this direction except that you see, the state would take up nationalisation almost to the Health Insurance Fund. But this same country, every year, through the mechanisms for updating the Cashier's budget, imports 400 These 400.500 million do not come out of the pockets of the uninsured, but come out right out of the pockets of the insured, in other words the responsible citizens. Well, should we protect these responsible citizens? Or should we continue this irresponsible spending of money? Of course you shouldn't. Again, the Patriotic Front will support this bill. Naturally, we will make the effort and efforts to look at it once again, and if more pragmatic decisions are imposed, we will bring them between first and second readings, but the philosophy of this Bill is correct. I just want to finish. For years we have been talking about deficits both in the Health Insurance Fund and in the NSI. For the first time, however, a ministry is taking a real measure - so I will say - to increase the collection rate and to return a large part of the people to their health insurance rights. Today we are talking and there is an initiative to set up a temporary committee to establish the debt of a large part of hospitals, only nobody asks the question: but in fact how does every year a huge part of hospitals become more and more indebted? What's the main reason? She's clear! The main reason is that most of these activities are carried out on patients who are not insured, and we all have to pay. Of course, there are many other reasons. One of these reasons, I have repeatedly mentioned it, is the draining of the Health Insurance Fund, but it is here that this law proposes measures to stop draining. I know a lot of doctors don't like this term, but it's a fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u241	Give me an example.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u242	And he's one of the elements of distrust of the health insurance system. Again, we will support this Bill at first reading with the intention of carefully reviewing it, and if there are to be additional proposals between first and second readings, we will make them. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-18.u243	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Tomorrow we continue a regular plenary session, starting at 9.00 with colleagues who have expressed their desire to participate in the debate on this bill. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
