ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] According to the programme voted out yesterday, today we will consider as point one: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE ENERGY LAW. Importers are Dimitar Glauchev and a group of MPs. The Energy Commission report will present Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a draft law supplementing the Energy Act, No 554-01-120, submitted by Dimitar Glauchev, Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov, Valentin Nikolov and Martin Dimitrov on 23 June 2015. At its extraordinary meeting, held on 24 June 2015, the Energy Commission examined and discussed the bill for supplementing the Energy Act, submitted on 23 June 2015 by Dimitar Glauchev, Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov, Valentin Nikolov and Martin Dimitrov. The meeting of the Commission was attended by Mr. Zhecho Stankov, Deputy Minister of Energy and Assoc. Ivan Ivanov, Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. On the part of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Valentin Nikolov, expressing the reasons for the need to adopt it. The aim is to allow the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to extend the regulatory period ending on 30 June 2015 for the prices of companies in the sector of The need to extend the price period stems from the existence of new circumstances that the KEWRC should take into account when forming its final decision. Such circumstances are: the scope of the Regulation on the reduction of the burden associated with the cost of energy from renewable sources, as well as the coordination of the same with the European Commission; the government's stated intentions to reduce costs in state energy companies; the ongoing checks of the Agency for State Financial Inspection in companies producing electricity from renewable sources. The focus of the discussion was on the appropriateness of legal changes to extend the price period, as well as the duration of this extension. The Members of the National Assembly indicated estimates of the expected effect of the underlying motives to the Bill. A proposal for a longer period than the one-month period was made by the MPs from the Patriotic Front, which was not supported. Support with regard to the bill spoke the present representatives of the Ministry of Energy and the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. After the discussion was concluded and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Committee, with 12 votes for the Energy Act, No 554-01-120, submitted by Dimitar Glauchev, Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov, Valentin Nikolov and Martin Dimitrov on 23 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u3	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. We will now hear the Commission's report on monitoring the activities of the State Commission on Energy and Water Regulatory. We are listening to Mr. Iskren Veselinov, President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! At its extraordinary meeting held on 23 June 2015, the Monitoring Commission of the activities of the SEWRC examined the Draft Law for Supplement to the Energy Act, No 554-01-120, submitted by Dimitar Glauchev and a group of MPs on 23 June 2015. The meeting was attended by Zhecho Stankov, Deputy Minister of Energy, Elena Marinova, Director of the Department of Legal and Water Regulatory, and Vanya Vasileva. The draft was presented by one of the importers supplied by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, who explained the reasons for the proposal, stressing that the proposed bill aims to allow the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory to extend the regulatory period ending on 30 June 2015 for the prices of companies in the electricity sector. The adoption of such a bill stems from the need to enable the KEWRC to take into account in the formation of its final decision several relevant issues. Support regarding the bill was expressed by the present representatives of the Ministry of Energy and KEWRC. In the subsequent discussion took the MPs Iskren Veselinov, Valentin Nikolov, Tasco Ermenkov, Krasimir Yankov, Magdalena Tasheva, Mithat Metin, Jayhan Ibryamov, Volen Siderov, Ramadan Atali, Delyan Dobrev. The main focus of the discussion was on the appropriateness of legal changes to extend the regulatory period, as well as the duration of this extension. The speeches indicated estimates of the expected effect of an extension of the decision-making period by the KEWRC and the expected new circumstances to contribute to its adequacy. The possibilities discussed for refusal of legislative change of the period, as well as those for a longer period of one month of extension, were not supported in the discussion. In this regard, the Chairman of the Commission for Monitoring the Activities of the SEWRC said that a proposal will be made between first and second readings to extend the deadline by three months, as one month is extremely insufficient to obtain the expected results. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 13 votes for the draft, without the opposition and 3 votes for abstention. On the basis of the above, the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for Supplement to the Energy Act, No 554-01-120, submitted by Dimitar Glauchev and a group of MPs on 23 June 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u5	On behalf of the importer, the bill will be presented by Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! Yesterday, for more than three hours, we listened to the President and members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. They defended in a dignified way the pricing model that they apply to the new electricity prices of 1 July 2015. What we learned from them in a summary is that the model is fairer, as it distributes the burden from the energy sector with preferential prices of green energy, long-term contracts and highly efficient cogeneration, fairer between the regulated and free market. At the same time, about a week ago at a meeting in the Council of Ministers and the press conference, we were then assured by the government that they would take action in the direction of reducing spending in state energy, which would change the output data on the basis of which the KEWRC applied its model to determine new electricity prices. This commitment by the Council of Ministers, unfortunately, cannot be completed within the remaining week of the moment when they announced their intention. This provokes me and my colleagues to submit a proposal for an opportunity, and I stress that giving an opportunity rather than forcing the regulator to postpone the regulatory period by one month. Three things are expected to happen in this month. I suppose that the debate, if there is one today, will be mainly around this, whether a month is enough and what will happen in this month. Three things are expected to happen in this month. First of all, to finalise the regulation whereby, according to the European Commission's guidelines, certain sectors receive reductions of up to 85% of the green component in order to protect these sectors from excessive electricity prices, thereby creating a risk of bankruptcy. Secondly, the government has committed itself to reducing spending in state energy, administrative expenditure in state energy by 10% over the next three years. Thirdly, we have been assured that in the next ten days the Agency for State Financial Inspection will complete checks in the RES sector to determine whether excessive State aid is given there, whether there are over-profits there, whether the investment costs of these projects correspond to the estimated costs of the regulator. In this regard, we consider it appropriate to allow the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to postpone its decision, if it considers it to be necessary, once again, to emphasise that I stress that I should postpone my decision by one month in order to comply with these new circumstances, which will result in different output data and a different outcome, applying the same regulatory model. Presenting the Bill here, I would like to note that July 1st is next week on Wednesday. From July 1st, new prices must enter into force. If we really want to give the regulator the opportunity to postpone its decision by one month, this means that today we have to vote on two readings of this Bill. I say in advance that once the vote is passed at first reading and if the draft is approved at first reading, I will make a procedure for voting at second reading today in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u7	The debate is open. To make a statement, Mr. Iankov wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u8	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! We have heard the reasons for the proposed extraordinary bill, but the reasons clearly show that those who submit the amendments to the Law are trying to postpone the decision by one month. This is a kind of moratorium on electricity prices at the moment to mask the unfinished work by the executive. All three points in the motive are for unfinished business. I ask: how will this regulation, which is still under public discussion, enter into force within one month and within this month also be agreed with the European Commission? And why hasn't that ever happened before? Because if the deadline for co-ordination of the regulation in question with the European Commission is so short, why has the executive power in the face of the Ministry of Energy not cut the deadline for communication with the European Commission regarding letters sent to the European Commission by the State Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory on the issue of contracts with the power plants "Maritsa Iztok 1" and TPP "Maritsa Iztok 3" regarding correspondence on renewable energy sources? This correspondence is delayed, and the key to preserving the price of electricity and even reducing the price of electricity is precisely in these two issues the price of electricity of the two power stations - Maritsa Iztok 1 and Contur global - and the price of renewable energy sources! After the attempt to mask the unfinished work, after the attempt to transfer responsibility to the National Assembly at yesterday's hearing, this manipulation, which goes with informing the public, with the information about the salaries in the sector, with other publications in the media, became clear that the ruling majority and executive authorities made an attempt within a month to reassure the public, to reassure the Bulgarian citizens. However, it became clear that precisely the key to this problem is that the price of electricity increased is in these correspondence with the European Commission, the preferential price to the two plants of the mine-marish basin and the preferential price of renewable energy sources. That is, if there is the will to respond to the wishes of the Bulgarian citizens, to the request of the Bulgarian business to have an environment that allows competitiveness, to even have a reduction in the price of electricity and not just preservation, then in fact the National Electricity Company must buy this electricity at market prices. Only now we're giving a month's time to do his job and the Agency for State Financial Inspection. What exactly will happen after her findings? We'll have her reports, and then there's no follow-up. There is no signed by the regulator in the face of the then composition, in the face of the President of the Commission Svetla Todorova, who, by the way, you colleagues from GERB, again proposed this composition and voted it, there are no signed penal decrees on the findings that are on this same Agency for State Financial Inspection. And by receiving this report within 10 days, to issue acts establishing administrative violations and criminal decrees that may be appealed. Because, Minister, you were here yesterday at our request, you heard the Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission Ivan Ivanov What will help you, ladies and gentlemen ruling, this month, provided that at the moment under the legislation of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, with its decision, can keep this price and within three months do the analyses and have these actions that you are currently qualifying as reducing administrative costs in state energy and in three months to justify the new prices? Because even with your desire as an executive to reduce these administrative costs in the enterprises, the property of the state through the Bulgarian Energy Holding is the question why this has not been done so far? Do you think there are those reserves within 10% of what you declare? Because if there are, then I ask you: why have you not taken action so far to optimize these costs? And not at the last moment with extraordinary legislation trying to escape the responsibility that is your responsibility to those who are in charge, those who have chosen this government. We, as opposition, have the opportunity to ask questions and to seek answers, but these are the questions asked by Bulgarian citizens. You are currently subjecting our fellow citizens to some kind of stress test, you are announcing a serious increase in the price of electricity, you see that there is a reaction. So what? Within this month, which today the Bulgarian Parliament has to legitimise, you will be able to find reserves and reduce this price increase by some part in order to want the trust of the Bulgarian citizens that you have done everything possible and the price increase is not so great!? I'm sorry. Don't think people will believe such simple manipulation. This manipulation includes everyone's statements, only it is not serious, at least my impressions are that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria should try to pass on the other side, on the side of the protesters, provided that it is his responsibility. He has offered you the ministers in this cabinet, and you haven't done your job yet to try to pack within your statements that you need another 10, 15, 30 days to do your job that you haven't done. Madam Minister, we did not expect you to be the specialist in energy, who has the long experience in the sector, but at least as administrator this regulation and your delay at the moment is the motive of fellow MPs to request these changes. Why didn't you do your job as an administrator, as a person whose presentation was at least as a minister in this direction, and not as a specialist in the sector? Here, at the moment, the irresponsible attitude of you, as governors, shines your inaction, which is why we must adopt this extraordinary legislation. We from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. We state: the responsibility is yours for the chaos that occurs in the sector. That you will try this month to accuse everyone, but not to admit your mistakes, will not bring this responsibility down on you, as a government, personally as Minister of Energy, Madam Minister, and to all who are in this ruling majority that has broadcast the executive power. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u9	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I won't. Minister Petkova has the opportunity to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u10	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Iankov! I have listened carefully to your reproaches on energy, on the executive power, and I will allow myself to disagree with them for several reasons which I believe are absolutely justified. They're a notorious fact. First of all, perhaps I should start by saying that we, our government, and the Bulgarian Parliament, of course, were the ones who initiated the changes in the Energy Act, which were aimed entirely at shrinking the deficit in the sector. You all know that this deficit is currently 3 billion. Seven hundred million. lv. I guess you all know that he wasn't gained today, yesterday or last year, or in the last 2 years. It's been piled up for decades. Two billion and 300 million leva of this deficit are the two projects NPP "Belene" and "Tsankov Kamak". These are investment costs that have not been recovered and 1 billion. 400 million. lv. is the tariff deficit, which until now no one had allowed themselves to declare that it existed in the system. The tariff deficit is caused by the regulatory policy, led for years in the system. This policy led to NEK being placed in such a situation that it had to buy electricity at preferential, higher prices and sell it at lower prices. There is no way in this situation not to generate a deficit in the system. What we have done has not been idle since the first day we execute our mandate, we have taken the necessary action to reduce the deficit. We have adopted legislative changes that are quite brave and with the support of all parliamentary groups have become a fact and thanks to which I believe that a recovery process has started. The other measure that we have taken and for which you so very actively disagree with us is the re-negotiation of the treaties with the two US power plants and our accusation that there is no communication with the European Commission regarding the two criminal procedures. Mr. Iankov, I would like to put the question in the following way: who delayed communication with the European Commission when it was time for it to take place? It's 2007. The date on which Bulgaria joined the European Union and the date on which the Bulgarian government was then committed in 2007, under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, to give for notification all long-term contracts, something which has not been done anyway. At this time, you can see that this effectively hinders the whole process in relation to this procedure. The Ministry of Energy and previously colleagues from the Ministry of Economy and Energy have conducted such correspondence. You requested such correspondence and we provided you with a copy of what we have in practice. We've introduced you, and you've seen it. At present, there is no reply from the European Commission. As soon as there is such an answer, I am, of course, ready to come and report on what the European Commission has actually said. With regard to the Regulation on the reduction of the burden on industry, first of all, reminding that this measure became possible again thanks to the changes in the Energy Act in force since 6 March 2015. In it we transposed the European Commission's guidelines on reducing the burden on industry, which have been in force since July 2014. With the change in the Law, we transposed these guidelines. Under the Energy Act, which you all know, the period within which the Regulation is to be issued is six months from the date of entry into force of the Law. The deadline expires September. Realizing the importance of what needs to be done... [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] The issue is six months from the entry into force of the Law. That's what the law says. Of course, none of us have lived with the thought that this should happen on September 6, 2015. We are responsible people, we understand very well what this is about. Given the new price period and the changes made, the three ministries, which had and have the responsibility to draft the Ordinance, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Finance, mobilised their teams and the Ordinance became a fact. A large range of individuals, including employers' organisations, industry, were involved in its preparation as an observer, as colleagues from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We wanted to be as transparent and clear as possible in its preparation, as we wanted it to help industry and business. It must be drawn up in a way that will use absolutely all of them and be fully applicable within the meaning of it. The regulation has been prepared and is in public consultation. It shall expire on 29 June 2015. Meanwhile, we have been communicating with colleagues from the European Commission through colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, who are legally acting on State aid. You know that this Regulation provides practical State aid. We have done everything we need to make it happen as quickly as possible and come into force. We have the assurance from colleagues from the European Commission that they will work as quickly as possible in this direction, as the model transposed into the Ordinance is the Austrian and German models, which have already been notified once. I very much hope that the Ordinance will come to light as soon as possible. I believe that within one month, if the change in the Law is adopted and if the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission complies with it, the regulation will be as useful as possible. As for the checks of the Agency for State Financial Inspection and what we expect, we all expect to see what has actually happened in the sector for years. You know that no one has ever entered these energy enterprises for any reason before, and there is no information on that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u11	If you want, we'll provide you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u12	No one has entered or examined how investment costs are actually formed, since the preferential price and the rate of return are determined on their basis. I expect from the Agency for State Financial Inspection an objective picture of what is actually happening in this sector. I believe that the extension of the deadline will allow for greater clarity and update of the output data if, of course, the Commission wishes to comply with them and carry them into the financial model. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u13	Can I have a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u14	You ask a question, and when I answer a minister, he can't help but turn to you. To speak, Mr. Honest Veselinov. My request is that we do not return to the historical development of this industry, but concentrate on the debate on the specific legislation tabled.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u15	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! For us from the Patriotic Front, this item on the agenda is a serious sign of the loyalty of our people, and that the efforts we have made in the last year in the sector of First of all, it must be said that we come here precisely because of our reluctance to walk in the vicious circle where the energy deficit, in particular in NEC, is the basis for a constant increase in energy prices without real reforms being carried out. We have to admit that this National Assembly is the first to deal so intensively with energy issues. We should also recognise that there are already several thoughts quite good working solutions that the Minister spoke of just now. Our opinion is that this spirit of energy reform must be even more decisive and faster. I think about everyone is clear: the public reaction is due to the fact that a large part of our society has realised that in the field of energy we are paying for heavy political mistakes accumulated over the years, which are currently part of the basic information that formulates prices. These mistakes are not just one party's, on the contrary it is a shared responsibility of all those who have so far ruled. It is therefore a little hypocritical to appear as a Member of the National Assembly in the role of opposition and to advocate those, and at the same time, the government before which its political power was involved did not realise the same ones. I think that in this regard, we from the Patriotic Front are absolutely clean, because those with whom we left two years ago as separate parties, IMRO and NFSB, do not tolerate any change. They are related to the large ulcers of energy, without which we cannot talk about a normal competitive process in the field of energy, guaranteeing normal consumer prices and, accordingly, the business. In this spirit, the present proposal for us is a positive sign. In it, we see the possibility of a delay in raising prices to be an opportunity to boost reforms, to search for hidden reserves in the system, which, unfortunately, for one reason or another have not been realised so far. We continue to argue that Bulgaria's big problem is related to the long-term agreements with the 1 and 3, with the green energy, which form a huge part of the obligation to society, which is becoming more and more difficult for businesses and citizens. We doubt that this month will be enough to resolve in this direction, although yesterday during the hearing in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, we asked the resonant question. The Commission currently has the power to review the contracts and analyse them. They, even if we do not talk about the existence of State aid, in the sense that we are awaiting the decision of the European Commission in this direction, are in direct contradiction with European policies for a competitive energy market. This is something that we will not give up on insisting that the energy regulator will have to have these contracts reviewed and brought to market conditions. The same applies to large-scale checks that flow in the field of renewable energy sources. We have serious expectations of them. In fact, both we and the whole society have been waiting for simple justice in this area. We cannot, taking advantage of certain legislative decisions that have been vicious, in fact, secure the excessive profits of some energy companies at the expense of citizens. However, our doubts about the deadline as a sufficient one month will not prevent us from supporting the Bill. However, we reserve the right to initiate a new legislative initiative if the pace of the reform is not sufficient and we ask for a new postponement of the decisions for the price period, as it is absurd for us to play with the price of electricity without having received all the effects we expect from one we consider appropriate management. Finally, I would like to say that the Patriotic Front will support the current Bill at both first and second readings. It is absurd for us not to support the Bill because it means raising prices. I don't think anyone wants to raise prices right now. We continue to hold a meaningful, permanent and constructive debate on the subject. We will continue to ask the management and the KEWRC for the necessary active actions to erase those inherited from the past and imposing unfair contracts to consumers and we will make every effort to continue the debate on energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Veselinov, as a result of your speech it became clear that as a result of the enormous efforts of the government the result is a request for an increase in the price of electricity. If these are the efforts you have made and this is the effect that has been achieved, it seems that Bulgarian citizens will not appreciate this as something that you have done as immense efforts. With regard to the period with which you want to be extended for the first time, I will agree that the infirmity leads to something good for the Bulgarian people, because if, because you have not done your job now it is necessary to extend the deadline, we will support you in this and not because of your infirmity, but because of the Bulgarian citizen, who should not raise the price of electricity in this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u18	Second line? A hole, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u19	Dear Mrs. Ahmedova, the prices of electricity are not so because of current management weakness because of your leadership power, because you made these contracts. [[Applause from PF and GERB.]] You were handing out these concessions to a printing press for money in the energy sector. And that's why! I'll just mention it. The hydroengineer, Mr. Dogan! This is the legacy you created and the Bulgarian citizens pay for it. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u20	To make a speech there is Mr. Nikolov, after him Mr. Boychev "those who have so far stated a wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u21	Madam President, honourable colleagues, Madam Minister! Here, the Bill is already here for a one-month price moratorium or giving the government the opportunity to implement the measures that have already been mentioned and the reasons of the Law are clear, but I think that part of the problem and the imposition of this moratorium actually came from the criticism and from the opposition's opportunity, and not only to try to transfer responsibility to the current government, and especially to the Prime Minister. All like Pontius Pilate washed their hands in the water and said, "Let this sin not be written to us. We don't have anything in common. This sin is not to be written to us and especially to the 100-year-old party. Yeah, she's got a lot of experience, she can do that. [[BSP LB.]] Yeah, over 100 years old, to make things turn people's minds, so they had nothing to do with it. And really, when you think about it - 1990, Bulgarian energy can boast with many successes: NPP "Kozloduy" - six blocks, "Marishka" pool, "TPP" "Varna" and "Bobov dol" and "Brickel" and so on and so forth. Not to mention them. For 20 years, where did all these power plants go? Does GERB then rule?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u22	Colleagues, I have called on us not to go back to historical retrospect on the subject, but on specific proposals. So we're going to have a debate that I don't see what's going to lead us to.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u23	Madam President, in order to pass this law, it is based on the historical subject. It can't be formed now. This postponement of a month is based on the fact that we cannot afford the prices that are currently being imposed purely economically to be given. It can't happen without a flashback. And I'm not gonna make it that deep, but I want to say where the roots of all this stuff are. Because the TPP has stopped. The contract was signed for investments. The investments are gone. There's no punishment. Those who signed the contract without sanctions for the investor achieved that TPP Varna stopped working. From 1st to 4th block, the cheapest electricity is gone so that they can compensate for future investments, because future investments are always expensive. [[BSP LB.]] But where were you? And where were you?! All the heat plants are almost sold out and you say, "The One and the Three are expensive." Yes, they are expensive, but they produce electricity with relatively lower carbon monoxide and lower sulphur dioxins. And the couple we're comparing right now is the most polluting factor in Europe. Did we make those investments right? We didn't. And at some point all paid plants in Bulgaria produce low electricity. Yes, Kozloduy nuclear power plant, Maritsa East 2 is producing low current, but this gives rise to the moment that when new investments are made, these new investments are always more expensive because of the rate of return, the risk borne by the uncertain political environment and the change of views on the basis of the change of governments, carried higher interest rates and therefore every investment in Bulgaria was more expensive. Why isn't the investment in Germany expensive in England? Well, because there's relative electricity that's expensive to everyone. However, we cannot afford it, and at some point we are throwing ourselves into investments that are really awakening public discontent, such as Tsankov Stone, NPP Belene. That's right! Over 2 billion. And a half of them went to the National Electric Company for exactly the kind of investment they couldn't make back. They can't come back! It has 80 megawatts of production, and it is constantly, if it is produced, can never be restored the investment, but nevertheless we have made it. In order to get there, except to accumulate debts in connection with non-refundable investments, to make the tariff deficit increase. Yeah, we have the tariff deficit, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u24	Say something about the bill at the first vote. It's debatable if that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u25	That's what I'm talking about! The tariff deficit, which, unfortunately, we also have some blame for, but the most increased in 2013. In 2013, the SEWRC, when it had to liberalise the market of medium voltage, did not make it possible to equalise the fee obligation to the public to all, allowed those coming out of the regulated market to benefit from this big difference of 50 BGN. A little over 18 leva. Of course, the current in the regulated market has become large, so it from 60% is currently sitting at 49%. And these 49% remained really long-term contracts, cogeneration, TPP 1 and 3 and renewable sources respectively. It is this leak that will continue if it does not even this fee, only suddenly this fee becomes quite painful, and rightly, for business, because it has made its estimates long-term precisely to a fee of just over 18 BGN. So where are we now? What are we supposed to do? I hear some exotic ideas that we should put an export tax on it. Well, gentlemen, if it's now £64. on the international market electricity, this export fee will not raise it to 70 leva, it will still remain 64 leva. Who's gonna take that toll? Who's gonna pay for it? Well, it will be paid for by the NPP "Kozloduy" and the TPP "Maritsa East 2" because at the moment again to carry the energy is paid 9 BGN. Do you know how much it is for Romania? Zero leva! And at some point, TPP-2 will bear the entire economic burden of this and could go bankrupt. And we will buy Romanian electricity precisely because such decisions can be made here and now. And I can say it responsibly that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u26	There are no such proposals in this bill, Mr. Nikolov. There are no such proposals in this Bill, which is placed at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u27	But this bill allows precisely such exotic proposals to enter our Chamber, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u28	How will they get in? We only have an extension, there are no other concrete proposals. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u29	The extension of the deadline will enable this regulation to be able to enter into force, to be able to ease business, to be consistent with the European Commission, to enable ADFI to give the picture from which we can derive any dividends from the fact that many people have abused investment in renewables, but all other ideas must be given an analysis because they can lead to steps where citizens can pay the entire account in the end as always. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u30	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will concentrate my speech only on the submitted Bill and the reasons for it. What do we have to offer today? One Bill that is justified and justified for three reasons. The first, importers say they will reduce energy costs. The minister said she expects a 10% cut in costs in energy companies. I, Madam Minister, ask: what have you done so far?! I am aware that you do not make the personnel decisions to lead the large companies in energy, but still as Minister you are responsible and you are the principal. I would like to remind you that these same energy companies have given their estimates, whether they are their forecasts and these are the output data on which the model is made by the regulator. When did they think of it, and when did you think of reducing those costs? Why didn't you think of a month ago when they were supposed to give those estimates to the regulator? By the way, since there is a lot of speculation on this subject, I would ask you to say what is the estimate you are doing, what the volume of these administrative costs will be, so that we, by lowering 10%, will see what their impact on the model will be and hence directly on the price that we all care about. I've asked you such a question about the National Electricity Company. What are her administrative expenses? The second argument you point out to us is that you have entrusted checks to the Agency for State Financial Inspection. You have been the head of this agency and you well know its capacity and capabilities, but agree that we cannot take it seriously to make an extension of the regulatory price period without having any particular argument. You've had the chance to at least get the results of one check so far, show us what we're witnessing. Let's see how and how this can be done as a management action, what will this lead to?! If we encounter a discrepancy in investment costs, the basis of which is taken in the formation of these preferential prices, what will we do? Are we going to take away licenses, return with a reverse date, ask for reimbursement? The serious approach suggested that you have at least a few checks with concrete results put on the table, and on this basis to rely that they can be a basis for inserting as a forecast into a future model. It is good in the scope of the checks to put large companies in the energy sector, Madam Minister, as corruption practices and ineffective governance are their characteristics. Finally, the last argument you put with the proposal to support the Bill is, you see, that you are not ready with the regulation, the regulation, which should have enabled industrial producers to receive a relief in the price of a public debt under the guidelines of the European Commission, which enables them to preserve and protect the competitiveness of the Bulgarian producers. Firstly, I would like to remind you that even when we adopted the Energy Act, we expressed reservations and did not support the proposal to have this type of regulation. Our concerns were precisely in this direction to avoid turning this into a lobbying tool, to serve a certain small category of companies. By adopting the Law, you knew very clearly when the price model began. Every year it starts at the same time. We also asked these questions at the hearings of the Chairman of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory?? How does he make the model without being aware of the scope of the regulation? How and how you talk to each other is your job, but I would like to say that the proposal for a regulation was made by you and your fellow ministers. This proposal with the cumulative requirements that you put in covers no more than 30 industrial companies from Bulgaria, so it is not our fault that only 30 companies are within the scope of this regulation. It is entirely a result of your actions, and not now to find out from once that, you see, the business was dissatisfied. Mrs. Minister and Mrs. importers, in the last week you see each other every other day with the branch organizations, or at least this information is flooding us with the media all the time. If you had seen them before and discussed this regulation, we would not have fallen into the situation we are in right now, but my question how and how we balance the forthcoming price model without being aware of the scope and influence of the regulation on it remains hanging. In this Law, Madam Minister, another regulation must also be made. You don't have that regulation either. By the same logic you can ask for further delay of the price model, because there too, it is necessary to say how the control of thermal power plants and plant plants will be regulated and exercised. You don't have that regulation either. But who is to blame for not having this regulation and who is responsible for making it? So it's about failure. It is about your failure, and it must be very clearly said today, about the failure of negotiations with the so-called American power stations and the no result that has been achieved by them. I want to tell you that, despite all the attempts, you cannot escape the responsibility you bear, there is no way and you cannot hide the incompetence and the inability to deal with the problems in energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u32	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Are there any lines? I won't. Minister Petkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u33	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, I listened very carefully to what you said, and I will allow myself again to disagree with your motives. First of all, I'm going to start with your last thesis on failure. I think when we talk about failure, we need to be very precise. I define as a failure something else that happened in May 2014. This is a decision of the former State Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. This decision of 27 May 2014 made the following: the regulator then reduced the prices of the two US power plants by 20% to one and 30% to the other, respectively. On the basis of the decision this enables to come to a decrease in the price of electricity by 5%, but in the same decision the SEWRC obliges the National Electricity Company, notice, to continue buying from the two US power plants electricity at high prices. In three months, ladies and gentlemen, the deficit in the National Electricity Company only as a result of this price decision jumps by 300 million. You know what I mean? It's a failure to me. With the clear awareness that we are reducing the price, at the same time we are forcing the public supplier to buy energy at high prices. But no one talks today and doesn't think of this failure. We cannot talk about failure because we have reached an agreement with the two US power plants. The contracts with the AES are currently finalised and yesterday approved by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We're in the finals with Contour Global. Hopefully we'll have a development there in about ten days. With the payment of the debt to the two US power plants, which I am currently around 700 million, the reduction will enter into force and then NEK for the first time may not be at a loss of payment under these contracts. So I can't define an achievement, so to speak, as a failure. I absolutely disagree with you. With regard to the regulation, is it reflected in the price model? It is not reflected in the price model and this is precisely why it is the initiative to extend the deadline. We believe that if this deadline is extended, indeed, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will have the opportunity to reflect the price model. About the fact that we've been talking about business for the last few days. No, that's not true. Our dialogue with business hasn't been over. And I just had the opportunity to mention that this regulation was made with the assistance and participation of the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria (CRIB), the other employers' organizations. They all took part in the design of this model, precisely for this purpose to be aware of the main productions in it. With regard to the fact that you were not in agreement with the change in the Energy Act and the transposition of the European Commission's guidelines in practice, I can say that your concerns at that time and now are not justified, as the guidelines very clearly define the range of persons who can benefit from these preferences and we have no intention and there is no reason to circumvent in any way these strictly defined persons who can benefit from the reference of the regulation. What we will do, perhaps today we will have a meeting with the working group.. colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, of course, and employers' organizations, is to do the analysis and specify to what extent we could expand the scope and include a larger range of industry that has the right to benefit from this reduction. That's all I can say. With regard to the checks of the State Financial Inspection Agency (AFFI). I think they will be very useful because they will give us clarity about the actual situation in the sector. Of course, neither the State Financial Inspection Agency nor the executive have the power to price in any way. The law provides for them to be granted respectively to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which has the competence to analyse them and, if it considers, to take account of and take action within its competence in relation to the results that will be established and which I hope will become known very, very soon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u34	Thank you, Minister Petkova. There's a word from the people's representative Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, you know perfectly well the position of Ataka. During the parliament over the years, since the party was created, we have repeatedly submitted proposals here, to the National Assembly, for a moratorium not to raise the price of electricity and heat. These moratoriums have always been rejected by the plenary. Different majorities have changed, but these moratoriums have been rejected. Why? Well, because some say it's populism. What is populism to want to ease the situation of your people, not to jump in such a way? Because, imagine, wages don't follow prices, wages don't jump. Of course, we have to think about the people who sent us here and make sure that the price of electricity is stronger for them, so they can afford to use that current. At the time it was populism, you called it that. What happened now, why are we looking at this amendment in the Energy Act today? Well, because employers, the big business thing resented, said, "These prices are not good for us. Committees were triggered immediately, the prime minister went out even in opposition to himself, and we decided that we should reduce the price of electricity. Right! Bravo! That's right! At least keep the price, I'm sorry, not lower it, keep the price! That's right! We at Atakas, as I said, have repeatedly proposed moratoriums for six months, now we are talking about one month. As they say, one sixth of the demands of "Attack" today will clearly be met. Why not six months? Why not six? Let's really see what's going on in this sector and make it change. In a month's time, as colleagues have rightly raised the question, will we solve everything in a way that we can really solve this problem? No, that's not gonna happen. So in these years, we have offered you six months to think, analyze and really make a decision that will ultimately work for everyone. Yeah, I was talking about the business that you resented the high price of electricity. He, the business, will strike, will make protests, one hour a day will not work, but in the end it will still be the consumer who will take this strike, which is prepared with an increase in the price of electricity. The Bulgarian consumer again. Dear colleagues, how did this situation come about? It's all thanks to management over the years. Here yesterday, when we discussed this topic again, listening to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC), one of the colleagues suggested, when going out on the stand, to say if there is a conflict of interest, whether there is a conflict of interest, before a vote, after a vote and so on. I guarantee you, I'm telling you, from Ataka we have no conflict of interest. But over the years, this has happened, perhaps at the moment, in this House there are MPs who have interests in this sector in some way possess RES, perhaps with persons placed, with other mechanisms. Thanks to Mr. Barekov in this Chamber there is a parliamentary group, which, according to Mr. Barekov's words, belongs to an energy oligarch and we are here discussing the topic. But, come on, let's say, in this room there has always been, however much I do not wish, but such interests, in some way have been passed such laws, which do not work for the Bulgarian citizens, but for the relevant oligarchs. But what has the Bulgarian state done over the years, really, the sector of the European Union to work and to work for the ordinary person, to be able to afford to use electricity and heat? Yes, this is where the European Commission is quoted. Didn't they tell us that she was the one who wanted to close the 3rd and 4th block of the NPP? We shut them down. We closed them, then we wrote letters, Verheugen said what he said, the one he said, the one he said, and it turns out that such a requirement, an official document from any institution for the closure of the Third and IV block of the NPP, would not. There's no such document! But we closed them. We, I mean those who have ruled over the years. They've closed them! Now we're wondering where to find the means, ways to ease the situation. Over the years, also, the management of Ivan Kostov, then re-signed by other governments There's talk of billions. But that's how you shyly talk. Why? Because they were American. Because the American ambassador will pull someone's ears out. Let's pull them out, but let's do it this way, again I say that to change things for good in the sector of................... because we still have to comply with the United States of America, with the European Commission, with everyone. Let's do this once, to comply with us, with the Bulgarians, with the Bulgarian state. Here, in this National Assembly, to remind you, colleagues, there is a Commission that controls the work of the KEWRC. There is such a Commission. There is a Commission that examines what is happening in the sector........................................................................................... There's a commission like that. These two committees are in the hands of the Patriotic Front. If you please, colleagues, don't be such pimps! You control, you have real power, you are parliamentary committees that should do something to improve the situation, again I tell you. Colleagues, from the Attack Party, will support the change in this Law because, again, at least one sixth of our demands over the years for a moratorium is being implemented. But what will that lead to? We have to ask ourselves that question. When are we putting it off? - August month. - August month. People on vacation, the media are dealing with summer topics. Just so it will be increased right then, the summer when electricity consumption is less, then it will be this increase and feel, perhaps, winter, when local elections will have already passed. Is that what we're after, or are we really trying to fix this? My colleagues and I from the party will work to really change the situation in this sector and, imagine, not to keep the price of electricity. Let's start thinking about reducing that price! Let's lower that price! Can we direct our thinking in this direction to reduce this price? Until the pay rises noticeably, we have no right to think about increasing the price of electricity. That is why we will support this moratorium.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. There are no lines. Mr. Martin Dimitrov has the floor to speak, then Mr. Ermenkov. [[Heckling]] I'm trying to alternate the MPs. Two people have spoken from the left so far, so let us also give the stage to reformers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u37	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen! What is the point in this month and what we expect to happen in it is the key issue today. By the way, the energy issue has become a favorite for a number of people to be populists, but the truth is now the following. The sector is in an extremely difficult situation and in such a situation was left by the previous government. Excuse me, I understand that you've solved the NEK deficit problem and come here and start asking questions. But leaving NEK with 700 million tariff deficit and coming here to ask other people what they're doing and what they're offering seems ridiculous, honourable colleagues! Within this month we expect the following things. First of all, there should be not only promises of reducing administrative costs, but at the end of the month, Madam Minister, you should come here and report on how this has already happened, how it will happen at the beginning of next year, so that there is optimism in state energy. And immediately I tell you who is your strongest ally outside the parliament who will support you! Your strongest ally is Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, who said that the increase in the price of electricity is a lazy measure. This means that he will support everyone else so that lazy measures are not taken. So if you don't find anyone within the government to support you firmly to reduce spending in state energy, that's the person standing next to you. You've said three times in public that lazy measures don't support. So I am convinced that it will stand by you and you together by the end of July will be able to give concrete results to reduce spending in state energy. You heard yesterday about our colleagues from the Reformation bloc, we pulled data on thousands of people who received higher salaries from the prime minister and the president. We argue that there is room for a very serious reform and it can no longer be postponed. Whether it will be with a decree of the Council of Ministers, whether you want another formula, we are there for you and we will support such measures. It also turned out that colleague Delyan Dobrev, who, if he wanted, could make a reply on this subject, mentioned 2 million. lv. for watering the flowers of an energy company, and they turned out to be 3 million! I mean, he was right, but not completely. He's crying for reform here! This has been deliberately held by colleagues on the left for years and has never been reformed, and has not been deliberately reformed! We are giving you this month, Madam Minister, to address these issues and to get a result. Energy has never been checked on site in the way AFFI should do it to check all major enterprises as a start. Purposefully, no one has ever done such checks, and this is absolutely intentional and deliberate, so that there may be no real control. There is a lot of talk about energy and very little is controlled, only this can now be changed. Giving ADFI rights to go to each company, to see the real investments, to check them out, to talk mainly about private, and to see what profitability they really get not on documents, but in fact, is a huge opportunity. So, Minister, at the end of July we expect you to give us the first results, I hope, to ADFI and to see from them what is the picture, what can be done and how to improve the control of Bulgarian energy and to take measures to reduce costs. Next. It is really urgent and necessary for the Regulation to be notified and to give business thresholds and situations where the production companies that use electricity, the production companies that do not feel pressured to the wall, to be able to continue to work because we rely on them to get out of the economic crisis a fair model in which to get the consent, this is the notification by the European Commission so that this model can work. Hopefully we will succeed and you will succeed by the end of July, when you present the results to us, it will be one of them. And in the next place, my colleagues, I want to tell you something else. This month, which we are voting on, concerns the deficit. And do you know what the deficit would be if the current ruling majority only a few months ago did not vote to close the door for new renewable energy at preferential prices, which the previous majority found to have reached the necessary objectives of the European Commission, but did not close the door? Why? Because they never wanted to close it, for that reason. They never intended to. They've exchanged letters on this subject, they say. We wrote, they said, letters to each other, and that was the whole RES thing. We wrote letters. I asked them: why, colleagues, like us, did you not accept a legal change to say: who already wants the RES in the free market? Why didn't you? They say, "We really didn't do it, but we wrote letters." This is the answer we officially received from them. So, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, we really expect from you at the end of July within this month, which we will support, to get further upgrades on reforms, allowing better price decisions by the KEWRC and, if there is an increase in the price of electricity, it is minimal so that Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian businesses are calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u38	- What's the line? Mr. Slavcho Atanasov 1st Mr. Dobrev 2nd, 3rd Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u39	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Dimitrov! I listened to you with great attention, and I will tell you this. He's not just crying about reforms here, he's crying about a monstrous audit, an investigation, the economic police, the D.A.'s office, and those who've been stealing energy for years to go where they belong! Only in this way will the people believe that we are on a new path. That was my exact line. Reform is reform, but if there is no retribution, people just won't believe us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u40	For the second line, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u41	Mr. Dimitrov, you're right about the revisions. You mentioned the flowers. The contract really is $3 million, and in three years, it turns out. I've memorized that, the amount is large enough anyway. But this is not the only case where there are such inexplicable contracts and inexplicable amounts to society. I'll give you an example of the Mini Maritsa Iztok. The transport company was the same for 10 years in Mini Maritsa Iztok. At all competitions only one transport company and always it rides at prices above 3.00 BGN. At prices above BGN 3.00! At a market price of 1,70 transports. But that's how the auctions are made so that only this firm can participate. And I'll tell you how the terms say that the order is divided into lots by mines and not by destinations, which is logical. When you split up by mines, you can't participate in just one pit, because there are people from all the people in the fields and buses have to move half-empty or you have to win in all three mines. Thus, for 10 years and more, the same company drove at double prices. What did we do in 2012? We fought the contracts in question, we made a new procedure in which we had not three mines lots, but 11 "12 lotts by destinations." 42 companies participated in this procedure and the average price fell to 1.70. The difference of these 3,00 leva. up to BGN 1.70 was within 400,000. lv. a month! Four hundred thousand leva a month difference, which was paid for more for many years. And, unfortunately, do you know what happened? Last year, contracts with these 11 or 12 companies that drove the lotts were terminated with some letters from the unions or union members that the buses were unheated, so that the one-off was terminated. Then some procedure was made and the same companies were chosen, interesting at what prices. That's the same thing as the old ones who rode for 10 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u42	By 2011, we understood. Mrs. Ahmedova for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u43	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Dimitrov! I respect your efforts with which you are zealously defending how to do so that we extend another month to the fact that we should not raise the price of electricity. However, I have had one such question: from 7 November 2014, since this government started working, until 25 June 2015. In more than 7 months, it turns out that nothing has been done. Within these 7 months, how much did BGN reduce the salaries of these highly paid specialists or people you talked about? Did any flower watering contract break within the last seven months? I don't know, you're gonna answer in your ass. But I very much hope that with the support you would receive for the extension of this deadline, in one month there will be no increase in the price of electricity as a result of this month in which you will work hard so that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u44	A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u45	I'll start with my colleague Slavcho Atanasov. I totally agree with you. The point in judicial reform is to have judicial responsibility in energy as well. By the way, the judicial reform that we are doing and which we support is very important for Bulgarian energy, so to answer. It should be applied first and then to other industries. Mrs. Ahmedova, many flower contracts have been broken. One of the big flower contracts that we broke: During the cabinet mandate Oresharski were prepared a number of new huge RES for inclusion. If it wasn't for Parliament's decision to say that the door was closing because the European goals were met, you would see what the deficit would have become and the responsibility would have been yours. The other big flower contract that we broke is that we limited the power plants and plant plants to highly efficient production. Nobody dared to do this before, because there was a purposely huge amount of money flowing out there. We also limited the quotas that the KEWRC accepts to be able to sell these businesses. No one has ever done so before because there is a great hobby to talk about this topic, but when specific decisions are to be made, alas, the BSP colleagues are not able to make specific decisions. In positions, in the promises, as we have stated, writing letters yes, but in specific legislative decisions, this is not the power of the BSP and it has never been when spending is to be saved and the deficit of energy is not reduced. So we broke a lot of flower contracts. Such contracts that if this had not been done, the deficit of Bulgarian energy would be even greater at the moment. The problem is that's not enough. These are the first steps to be upgraded. Unfortunately, I can no longer think of many things that the legislature can do. We're now talking about executive action. For this reason and so much I called Minister Petkova and many hopes I put on her. The example that my colleague Dobrev gave you, ladies and gentlemen, is a key example. The transport for mini maritsa iztoksysysysysysysysysysysysysysysysysysysysysysysysysy, how a transparent procedure has a success and a decrease in the price almost twice. However, it turns out that during the Oresharski cabinet, so I understood colleague Dobrev, alas, this good practice did not appeal to the colleagues on the left and they stopped it. They've made this far-sighted decision to stop it. Probably, by the way, I'm pretty sure that with these capacities on the left, someone will be able to explain to us why they did it. It probably makes sense. And I think it's about letters again. They've received letters from different trade unions, and that's how I figured it out. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u46	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u47	So it's time for reforms and time for responsibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u48	Thank you. Mr. Ermenkov has the floor to speak. And the time to extend.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u49	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I will try to limit myself to the reasons for making this decision without entering into political exhibitionism by some of the colleagues who, knowing what they have done, continue to claim that they are innocent and dressed in white, almost with wings. Both American power stations and RES aren't on the left, they're on the right! But that's another topic. Here we go. A motive for extending the scope of the period is the scope of the burden reduction regulation relating to expenditure. Colleagues, this is not serious because it is written in this regulation that the reception should be within 6 months, every normal administration complies with price periods, with other laws and does everything possible to take and make a regulation which, by the way, is not as complicated to do as the minister said, we are simply transposing requirements that have already been made. But I ask you, since this regulation was introduced at the beginning of the 30 gigawatt border, what happened in the last week that they would fall to 2 gigawatts? I ask you, Madam Minister, why are you lying that this regulation has not entered the price model? She's in, Minister, she's in, but with 30 gigawatts. But when the big ones came and hit you with the bat on the head, you remembered that they could be not 30 but 20. As they say, when the upper one hits you, you looked at the lower one. The government's stated intentions to reduce spending in state-owned energy enterprises and large wages. Colleagues, you're lying! £3,200. It's not the salary, £3,200. is the average cost of the employer in the Fund of Work salary, which includes both insurance and pension insurance and health insurance! Of that 3,200 leva. £1,200. they go into these funds. Is the state ready to give up these receipts in its budget, I ask? In the National Health Insurance Fund, in the pension fund, because these are white contracts in state enterprises, they're not gray, they're all paid. £2,000. Take the average worker, 2000! And if you want to work in the direction of workers in Bulgaria to receive lower salaries, work very well in this direction, but I do not know whether the people will tolerate you in this regard! Instead of looking for standards to raise other people's salaries, we envied someone for working and receiving money! Bravo! Last: the current checks of the Agency for State Financial Inspection. Colleagues, what do you expect this month to happen from this agency? It, first of all, cannot do the comprehensive checks on all businesses, will come up with a dozen findings. Will these 10 be the findings that will affect the price model? In my opinion, you continue to try to transfer one responsibility to the National Assembly for work that you personally as a government have not done. Don't lie to me that you initiated the negotiations with the U.S. power stations! No, last year the previous, previous composition of the SEWRC with President Boyan Boev recommended that state-owned enterprises begin negotiations to renegotiate these conditions. You just continued them and froze them at November level. And I ask you, how do you expect there to be a quick notification of your regulation within this month, when for more than 6 months you have not moved a finger to speed up this correspondence with the European Commission? Why are you in a hurry in one case to reduce the threshold of eligible aid to businesses, and in the other case you are sitting in the offices and running to the European Commission to ask what is going on and why we do not have an answer? The other thing I would like to ask is: why are you currently trying to lie to people that the increase in the price of electricity is related to the No! These are off-balance sheet values. Yes, it is true, they form a deficit, but they have no connection to the price of electricity. More than that. We have asked you several times and asked you: contact the Minister of Finance. The assets of the Tsankov Kamak (Tsankov kamak) road and tunnel are already in the Road Infrastructure Agency (R &amp; D), although NEK paid for them. Take the 800 million that NEK has to get from the state because this is exclusive government property and you won't wonder where to get 800 million to pay the US power plants that eventually reduce the price of electricity and their availability. Otherwise, we will continue to talk, otherwise a month will run like this, in such debates, and at the end of this month we will come to the conclusion that we have made one decision, whether we are an opportunity for the Commission to continue its term. She's gonna wash her hands with this, and we're gonna be responsible for nothing happening this month. Electricity prices will still be raised, but they will explain to us that it is our fault that 100 million have accumulated this month. lv. NEC deficit. Colleagues, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, in its current legislation, has the opportunity not to accept price hikes and to say, given some uncertain circumstances, we do not raise prices, and after three months this same Commission, without changing the Law, without making extraordinary legislation, if new data and facts occur, to change its decision. We gave them that right. Therefore, we will not support something that is currently an attempt to wash the hands, an attempt at the Prime Minister's PR, who ultimately has not done his job as head of the state administration, has allowed things that cannot now be foreseen, to be resolved by this administration, and we will now go ahead and listen to what we are told: No! I don't think we're just toilet paper to mop up some of the dirty parts. Thank you. [[Loud noise and lines on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u50	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. The word for speech is Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u51	Madam President, honourable Members! There are two dirty secrets in Bulgarian energy, which are said to be little or little. These two dirty secrets are called the two U.S. TPPs and RESs. For the two US TPPs, we should thank the right-hand side of the Chamber when they managed in 2001, for the shocking inclusion of the RESs before the deadline set by the European Commission, we should thank the middle part of the Chamber, in the face of Party GERB. [[Noise and lines.]] Unfortunately, however, these two millstones I am talking about are due to these two political forces that are currently ruling. Therefore, we cannot expect these two millstones to be taken from the neck of the Bulgarian energy sector, since the government bears the primary responsibility for placing them. I would like to say something very important, honourable Members. The contracts with the two U.S. TPPs can be immediately broken after you are very well aware that yesterday was said during the debate, and today, as Mr. Chukolov and Mr. Ermenkov said just now that these two contracts, according to the letter we received back in October last year from the European Commission, can be interpreted as unlawful State aid and the inclusion of renewable energy sources as excessive state aid. But as Mr Ermenkov said earlier: where is the correspondence, Madam Minister, between the European Commission and you, between the European Commission and the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission? Why hasn't there been any progress? When we talk about the bad government in quotes, of Plamen Oresharski, let us not forget that it was in his management that the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, led by Biser Boev, wrote this letter to the European Commission, in which he asked for an interpretation of what the contracts with the two US thermal plants and renewable energy sources represent. In short, you of GERB Party and you of the Reformation bloc are afraid of something and it is called: the United States of America. You are afraid that if you decide to apply the European rules to say it directly, heretically sounds, but it is a fact that you will be overthrown, you will be granted a Maydan. This is the fear that makes you run away from radical reform in Bulgarian energy. When we talk about radical reform, I will give you two examples that say radical reforms can also be made by right-wing governments. Prime Minister Victor Orban's position in Hungary, what is it? In the last two years, it has managed to reduce the price of electricity for domestic consumers between 5 and 7%, and for companies up to 10%, because it has started to re-negotiate and buy back electricity distribution companies and electricity trading companies, and it is owned by French and British companies. Orban is not afraid to take ownership or, more precisely, if I have to be economically orderly, to apply redemption at the expense of the Hungarian State of their shares. What's stopping us from doing the same thing? What prevents us from repeating Albania's example, as I said yesterday in my speech, when we listened to the honourable Mr. Ivanov, head of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, buying back CEZ's shares, which happened between the Albanian state and the Czech electricity distribution company? What prevents us from doing the same?! Once again, the contract between CEZ and the Albanian state was worth 102 million. Euros. The Albanian State, following the arbitration agreement, more precisely the out-of-court agreement between the two entities, CEZ and the State, agreed to pay 104 million. euros, and in just a year and a half, two Albanian states will own state property, the electricity distribution company and will generate profits and already generate such profits. In short, let me finish. Your fear, the fear of the new great, the new great brother drives you, unfortunately, and the executives, and you the legislative authority in the face of the four parties that support this government, not to forget the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which is no longer a spare wheel, but a leading wheel in this coalition, because of your fear You sacrifice the interests of the Bulgarian consumers, liquidate the Bulgarian energy. After all, this is the answer to why we are the poorest and most humiliated country in the European Union, why no one respects us, why they view us as a vassal, whether it be a vassal in the eastern direction or a vassal in the western direction. Therefore, our national dignity is low, and the national self-esteem of the Bulgarian people is low. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Not only are we poor, but we are also humiliated. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u52	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Velchev.]] A line? Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u53	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Enchev, since you were an employee of State Security and you have a lot of information, did you accidentally miss to thank the left side of the building of BSP and DPS when you talked about the laws that were voted on for RES? I have to tell you that you probably know this, but I will remind the people in the Chamber, the MPs that 2009 we found a law drawn up by BSP and DPS for photovoltaic plants, in which, notice, there are many essential things. One is the purchase time of the current.. 25 years; secondly, the price. 790 leva per megawatt, and, thirdly, very important that the state does not have the right to change more than 5% per year the price. You, this thing, did you know if GERB hadn't changed it, that now the state would be bankrupt? If you don't know it, I know you know it, just don't save your patrons this truth from this tribune. Say everything honestly and clearly, not as a secret security agent. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u54	Mr. Nikolov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u55	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Enchev, you have obviously returned to the mother party and performed the same song, but I want to tell you because here is mentioned the SEWRC and Mr. Boev as a mantra, almost a saver of energy. First, a decision was reached in the SEWRC in 2012 to re-negotiate TPP Maritsa Iztok 1 and TPP Maritsa Iztok 3 in the SEWRC. Two thousand and twelve! Anyone who hasn't heard, understand 2012! [[Replying: We heard!]] On top of that, you're talking about Hungary. Hungary had a long time ago run out of the years that paid off the investment, had two or three years left, so they were able to buy them out. If we now go to buy them out, all the profits they have formed and the return will be imposed on the price they have made as an investment, Mr. Enchev, to tell you this. There is therefore a great difference between us and between Hungary. So I understand you're going back to where you came from, but... Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u56	Third line? Mr. Enchev, you have an opportunity for a back-up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u57	Dear colleagues to the right when you lack expert argumentation You immediately find the ghost of State Security. If we're going to talk about the ghost of State Security, let's not forget, Mr. Velchev, that you were the party secretary of the Bulgarian Communist Party. [[(shouts: "Ohoooo!") by BSP LB)]] And behind my back Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva was party secretary of the Municipal Council in Pleven. [[Strong noise and raging in GERB.]] When we talk about the past, don't forget your past. Let's stop with the subject of the past, as this is your Achilles' heel. When it comes to the RES, dear Mr. Velchev, you will not deny that in the last months of the management of Mr. Boyko Borisov during the first term, you were shocked to include these RESs and the deadline for their entry was 2020. When you speak of my patrons, Mr. Velchev, I am an independent MP, but I cannot spare the fact that the so-called patrons of my press conference two days ago, in which I participate, if I am not mistaken and Mr. Kutev, was delivered a list of the energy oligarchs, led by Tsvetelina Borislavova, who earn annually by the RES millions, millions of levs. My guess is that BSP colleagues will repeat this press conference they gave to Positano. Should I list the list of people - Valentin Zlatev, Tsvetelina Borislavova, people related to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. One of them, as far as I know, is responsible for the $1 million fee. lv. of the main energy expert in Bulgaria from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. All these people are your people, Mr. Velchev! They're not people on the left side of the room or at my mercy, so remember what you've done in the last months of your reign. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u58	Colleagues, I invite you to return the debate. Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u59	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this tribune cannot be used for slander, and I will tell you why. [[(Voices: ……]] Don't call me that, because you're the same slanderers as the former State Security. I've never been a party secretary, first thing. The second thing, I am excluded from this party in 1988, and you all know what follows and waits for the people who are excluded from this party. My father forgave him, he cried out: "Better partyless than expelled from the party. So now to reverse history here, from this tribune, from cops and snitches... [[The speaker addressed the Presidency.]] You're the people who shouldn't let this thing go! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]] To speak the word has Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Madam Minister, fellow journalists! You can see where the debate on an extremely serious and important topic has been reduced to trying to shift the main topic by inserting cop numbers, things that the Bulgarian people are not interested in at all. In fact, some people talking about the price of electricity in Hungary should say that it is twice and a half higher than the price in Bulgaria. That's missing, though. Some people talking about the price of electricity in Albania should say that much of the people in Albania do not have access to electricity at all, but this is also forgotten. It is no accident that we use an anecdote in Bulgaria that we warm up as an Albanian reotan for the simple reason that it cannot reach electricity to warm up this Albanian reotan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u61	Colleague, please, no such suggestion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u62	I'm just saying it like an anecdote, and I don't mean to insult anyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u63	The tolerant statements should only be within our institutions, not foreign ones like them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u64	I accept the remark, Madam President. Some people were talking about off-balance sheet assets, but I'll tell you the truth about some other off-balance sheet assets. I'm going to appeal to the Minister, as I made this information public exactly a year ago. How many of you do you know, honourable Members, that the huge cost of the so-called nuclear power plant is linked to the construction of a huge housing fund, provided it is clear that this plant will not work?! Notice, this housing fund was built in the period 2007 - 2009. The town of Belene is currently the largest settlement with luxuriously built dwellings that stand empty. Honourable Minister, as in this direction we are talking about around 600 "700" million. BGN, now they, to protect themselves, we citizens, pay huge millions to guard the desolate dwellings. Here's a moment. These housings at least begin to be sold in order to make some money and not destroy themselves. Second moment I will not dwell on the so-called huge gourd, but, dear Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u65	I propose on the grounds of the bill, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u66	Yeah. We will support this one-month period because we believe that in it we can in a very express manner carry out a verification of the RES that we repeatedly disclose. One RES cannot have received Act 16, which means it does not exist in legal peace, but sells electricity, accumulates huge costs and deficits. The second moment can't be a RES, Madam Minister, registered with a power of 5 megawatts, but can sell 15 megawatts. So how do these things happen?! There is no problem within a month to check this out. The third moment is that the RES cannot produce electricity at night. This is naturally only found in Bulgarian energy. It's not a problem for a month to check it out. How is it that at night, at moonlight, RES produces much more electricity than normal sunlight?! As Mrs. Tsacheva reminds me, we must have some new technology. There was one who had made a patent for 600 million to build wind parks somewhere high up the mountains. Turns out this guy was once DSS's locksmith, but that's another topic, not to start her, too. That is why we will support because we believe that there are things that, within a month, it is no problem precisely for the Minister of Energy to organise their express inspection and come up with serious results. As for all fairy tales, believe me, the Bulgarian people do not care who was a cop or who was a member of which party. The Bulgarian people are interested at last to have justice, to pay a price as it should be, because there is no way to hide that today's price represents, roughly speaking, 40% electricity, for the other 60% people ask the question: "What am I paying?Someone from the DPS security and the expensive Mercedes...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u67	You're off topic, Mr. Bayraktarov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u68	I apologize. Or some other oligarch, who now, in conflict of interest, comes out and tries to read us morals on the subject of.................................................................................. I hope that you will initiate an express check on these few points that I outlined, and on 30 July you will give a report on what is done and what is the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u69	- What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Bayraktarov, I agree with much of what you said, but there are things I cannot accept. Of course, the accumulated debts of 3. 4 billion.. is clear during which periods were accumulated and in which transactions. It is now possible to make certain savings as a result of certain reforms, but there are things that cannot happen. For example, what you're explaining about Belene, about this luxury residential complex that was built, the 600 million is spent there, and you are now advising the minister to take action to sell these homes. Do you know how that sounds? It's like selling stoves in Central Africa, you know, or selling refrigerators to one of the poles? This is ridiculous! There's money in the sand and there's no turning back. So that can't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u71	Second line? I won't. The hole is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Atanasov, by the way, I thank you for the line because I didn't allow myself to be so extreme. But you're absolutely right. I'll even say it's like selling refrigerators at the North Pole. But ask yourself, those who are now developing populism, what absurdities have they created on the back of the Bulgarian people? What nonsense! Now we have to pay these absurds and pay to guard them, which is more cruel. I'm not going to explain that it's not a complex, it's dozens of complexes, hundreds of homes. I've shown them. As far as these absurdities are concerned, they are not only in the NPP of Belene. If I have to go deeper into the subject, I have to get you through an unconventional mega project from the so-called big energy helmet that I made a movie about. If we go in there, I don't want to talk about what a miracle it is. Then let us not wonder why they load the Bulgarian people with 60% in the price of electricity. It's the truth! Once again, I hope Mrs. Petkova will take a responsible approach, mobilise the powers and experts of the Ministry of Energy, because we think and we are convinced that there are many reservations. The question is not today to look for who was guilty 10 years ago because no one will come out and return the money. The point is to stop the money leaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u73	Mrs. Tasheva has a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u74	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, under art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure three weeks ago the Parliamentary Group of Ataka proposed a draft for imposing a 6-month moratorium on electricity prices, since we considered it necessary to develop a new strategy for the Bulgarian energy sector, in which the role of the state energy that produces competitive electricity and heat, to have larger quotas, to renegotiate the corrupt contracts of the parties of the UDF and DSB with the U.S.Marics and to develop a new methodology corresponding to the European requirements, to the European norms for the notorious green energy, green as poison. You rejected this proposal. Now I see that not someone else, but the so-called "reformators" who actually liquidated the Bulgarian energy are willing to adopt a moratorium not for a month, as proposed here, but from three to six months. Great! We've got one sobering up among the reformers. Come on, we'll bring our proposal back. [[shows him]] and let us allow the large taps through which the Bulgarian energy is drained to be closed. However, I can't spare myself the boredom of the fact that those who sold TPP Maritsa East 1 (Maritsa East 3) for many below the price they deserved, who concluded the corrupt treaties with the Americans, who, notice, have set a special bet on the accounts of Bulgarian consumers for decades to come, are now teaching us how to treat Bulgarian energy (Bulgarian energy) those who led it to agony! Have some shame! The people have not forgotten who Ivan Kostov is. I can also see that you are very upset with 2.. 3 thousand. lv. salary of the Bulgarian experts and specialists at NPP "Kozloduy" NEK, ESO and TPP "Maritsa East 2" These are government assets. I just want to remind you that there was an audit ordered by the SEWRC back then. It ended in 2010, in 2011 it was published after intense torment, because not someone else, but Mr. Martin Dimitrov, as then Chairman of the Economic Commission, had taken him to the Secret Office. There are monstrous violations of Bulgarian laws. For example, the services for which the three ERPs are licensed are assigned to companies in their capitals - Czech and Austrian, respectively Czech and Austrian legal entities, which are not subject to regulation under Bulgarian laws. It was also found that related parties and companies had split costs. I'd also like to remind those who have two or three thousand grudges. lv. The salary of the Bulgarian worker that one of these geshtaris was named Petar Reportal, received 120 thousand. lv. monthly salary. His right hand Tomasz Plaskac, who was both a member of the Governing Council and the Supervisory Board of CEZ, received the poor only 59 thousand. lv. Salary, Zolferner, the head of EVN, received 70 thousand. lv. monthly salary. All these salaries are in our electricity bills. This should be known by Bulgarian taxpayers, voters and consumers. $100,000 each. lv. We pay them on average a month! The Ataka party also insists that the overrated so-called "price model" of Ivan Ivanov be fully revised and that the TPP be included with a sufficiently good quota to be returned to the regulated market. Because TPP Maritsa East 2 is a unique plant that consumes 50% of the coal in the East Sea Basin. If she goes bankrupt, which you have prepared for her, I would like to stress that if she goes bankrupt, the mines will go bankrupt. He found some corruption treaty in which the watering and mowing of grass is indeed scandalous, 2 million, but why didn't you look at Tomasz Plaskac and Petar Reportal, who appointed your activists to the management of CEZ, how did they drain Bulgarian energy? [[Applause from BSP left Bulgaria.]] Belene, the complex in Belene, became redundant because Hillary Clinton came, defeated your leader, then and now prime minister, and closed it without any explanation, with the only argument that it was Russian. Thus the biggest foreign investment in Bulgaria was closed in 25 years. And by rubbing your hands to sell off stations to state-owned enterprises in energy by rubbing your hands to sell this complex in Belene, did you ask the owners if they agree? [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u75	Any other MPs for a statement? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, obviously today's plenary day and today's debates put the National Assembly again in the hypothesis where we stick to our speeches on populism rather than to discuss concrete measures and decisions. The problems in Bulgarian energy do not date from yesterday and today. They date back many years. In no way would I have allowed myself to do a retrospective analysis, but rather to address all the political parties that have managed since 2008 to date, as the various audit procedures that have been introduced by the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission from 2008, for five years until 2013, have been found to be extremely deep problems in carrying out the checks of the three ERPs. You know, more than 2690 violations have been detected...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u77	Mr. Belemezov, I will address you as well, on the grounds and the bill! Colleagues, we haven't had a joint debate on the state of energy in retrospect for 25 years! I'm already uncomfortable making remarks. I have to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u78	Madam President, I say these things to try...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u79	That's how they all start. Everyone starts with 15 minutes of introduction and forgets to go back to motive.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u80	I'm gonna have to ask you not to interrupt me. I have to get this debate back in the direction it should be! After all these violations, it is found that there are a lot of problems in Bulgarian energy, which, I would like to point out, there is no way to solve them with price policy, whatever price policy is adopted. First of all, a substantial analysis must be carried out, which is currently focused on the efforts of the Temporary Committee of inquiry, which was made on a proposal from the ABB Parliamentary Group and is currently headed by Mr. Valeri Simeonov. If this committee of inquiry doesn't come up with an in-depth analysis of the major energy problems...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u81	Mr. Belemezov, I am officially warning you! Get back to the subject. The next item is on the question of the committee of inquiry. We are discussing at the first vote a bill with its motives and a concrete proposal. Once again, please return to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u82	Madam President, we, as a parliamentary group, will support the bill in question, but I would like to point out that, in fact, with the adoption of the bill, the question will be opened again...... is it necessary or does it not need to change the prices of electricity, electricity in Bulgaria? Two are the main things that are important for us: the deep analysis, which is in the portfolio of the committee in question, first of all, and second of all, the adoption of a long-term energy strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u83	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Madam President, I will try to focus on the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u85	If you don't try, I'll focus on you. [[Laughter and excitement in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u86	Why is it necessary to make this extension for the entry of the new price regulatory period? Colleagues, I think, unfortunately, we've been more political than we should. And things are too clear. From now on, the measures that follow should also be very clear. As early as February, when it became clear what the real situation was in NEK, in all the energy, this National Assembly took several important steps. The first step was that we adopted the Energy Act, with which from the presentations by Mr. Ivanov a report on the real deficit for the year in NEK, we made possible from these 650 million. lv. to be able to reduce the deficit by about 300 to 400 million. Colleagues, in the end, there remains a hole of about 200 to 300 million, if I am not fooled by last night's memory of 280 and several million, which at the end of the day, together with the government, we need to find a way to stop this deficit. We like it or we don't like it, the nuclear power plant Belene is what it is, and we have no more right to delay balancing this system. Because the energy system is not some isolated area in the economy. It is of public interest that the whole system of energy should be balanced and be in good financial condition, not because of some energy companies, but because of the whole financial system of the country. Even the Minister of Finance said that if we do not stop this deficit, it will ultimately affect the entire financial situation of the state. Therefore, colleagues, I appeal to all parliamentary groups: to behave a little more responsible. This month is necessary because with the government's and the Minister of Energy's requests for possible cuts, if they are delayed or not, it is ultimately necessary to get a positive result. But those same people who explained how these measures were delayed eventually they had so many times the opportunity to do so, but they never allowed themselves to do so, as my colleague Dimitrov said. In words, it's very simple, but when you have to do some reforms and cut costs, it's very difficult. So let us also support the government's efforts, let us see where there are reservations. If there are such reservations, let them be made. In the end, it is good and must be known by the public what the regulator proposes..................................................................................................... must be distributed equally between business and consumers. It is ultimately what we have always talked about and we very much insist on it, but we do not want to apply it, namely the so-called liberalised market. It's like this all over the world. It's built like this. The addition to society's obligation is paid by everyone, and the government's work to the regulation of the European Commission is this supplement for certain industries that are in danger and can lose their competitiveness to reduce this fee. And nothing more! Nothing more. After all, I appeal not only to the parliamentary groups to support the government's efforts and to seek additional reserves in order to change the baseline data from which the regulator makes its price models, but here it is very important to turn to the industry as well. The industry in Bulgaria is one of the most energy-intensive, one of the most energy intensive across Europe, in times more than any European country, than the average of the countries in the European Union. We need to think carefully when we make concessions.. What is the role of business? We must somehow make them, too, of course, with their participation, voluntarily make such investments to make their energy intensity less. Because, colleagues, however we look at it, in our country the price of electricity is not high. It's more like low income. After all, the reserves that we need to look for besides purely administrative are in energy efficiency. That is why this government started with a large-scale consumer programme, but it must in the same way, and I hope that with the newly adopted Energy Efficiency Act we will go in this direction, namely to make the business, rather the industry put more resources into making its production cheaper, more competitive, cleaner, so that we can live in a cleaner world. I also appeal to the industry to seek reservations in itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u87	Mr. Tasco Ermenkov has the floor. Previously on the procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u88	Madam President, I take the floor in the manner of conduct. I do not allow myself to make a reply to my colleague Nenkov, as he talks about the problems in the energy sector, the same thing that I tried to outline in my previous speech. I take the floor in the manner of conduct, as I call on you personally not to take away the floor of MPs selectively and to introduce double standards when they speak. If the word is taken away from anyone, please be consistent in your attitude towards each of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u89	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. I didn't take anyone's word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u90	Before that, it was me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u91	Then, when a Member of the National Assembly, speaking on a specific topic, which is on the agenda, passes on the next topic, on the next item of our Programme, namely the Project for a Decision on the extension of the Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria, there is no way to remind him that this is the next point of our Programme where he will have the opportunity to make his speech. The word is Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u92	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I take the floor in relation to the Law on Supplement to the Energy Act, which reads: ................................................................................... In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law of Amendment and Supplement to the Energy Act is created § 47a. "Madam President, I fully adhere to the Law. § 47a states: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) The price/regulating period ending on 30 June 2015 for the prices of companies in the sector (2) In the case of an extension of the term under para. 1 The Commission shall rule on applications for the validation of prices submitted by energy undertakings until the entry into force of this Law. An open meeting or public discussion shall be held as necessary within the time limits set by the Commission. Final provision The Law shall enter into force from 30 June 2015 Honourable Members, this is the Law, the bill that we must adopt today in connection with yesterday's hearing by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. A few words about motives. The reasons that have been recorded here are, firstly: the Commission should take into account in its final decision several relevant issues. The first motive, you say, is that this is the scope of the Regulation for reducing the burden associated with the costs of energy from renewable sources and the need for our communication with the European Commission, which Minister Petkova said is under way. Secondly, the reasoning states that the government's stated intentions to reduce expenditure in state-owned energy companies. Thirdly, ongoing checks by the Agency for State Financial Inspection in companies producing electricity from renewable sources. Many colleagues before me, for one reason or another, have refuted that these motives are not the real motives. These are motives in order to enable the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory another month to think about the price model and to choose that model to make the burden on society or obligations towards society be defined, transparent, clear and everyone bear their burdens, including business and end customers equally and fairly. However, I think the motives are quite different. Honourable Members, the motives are the fear of naming the truth about the state and bearing responsibility for what is happening in the energy sector, which many of our colleagues have just spoken about. That's when I thought and looked at the colleagues who took an attitude. I came to the conclusion that all of them were concerned, who blamed for one reason or another all of the energy production companies, I noticed that none of them had ever worked at a thermal power plant or at a nuclear power plant other than Mr. Nikolov, but he was in the management department. Colleagues, working at a thermal power plant is very different than making a movie about the Grand Slam. Working in a boiler room and repairing any boiler at a thermal power plant and getting your glass wool where it's not allowed, I'm sure today the people here will feel differently. What is it that a nuclear plant operator gets 2000 leva?! That sounds like a lot to me. Colleagues, if yesterday and today we do not show the public that neither the MPs nor the prime minister are trying to impose political pressure on the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, we will not have done our job. I therefore invite you to adopt this Bill in order to enable the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to make the right decision. However, once again, I say to you that we do not oblige the Commission not to take a decision on 1 July 2015, but only to tell the Commission that if the executive power in the face of Minister Petkova, Minister Lukarski has not done their job in time, if within seven months they have not done so to cut the costs in the energy system, if only now they will regulate the shortage of the energy system and this will refer to the price of electricity, then there is something rotten, and it is not in Denmark. Colleagues, Mrs. Tsacheva, you will allow me to say a few words about the severe state of energy that some colleagues have already said.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u93	Let's go to the next point. We'll talk about these things again there. This is where we focus on the bill. That's why I'm calling 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u94	Thank you. However, I will try in connection with the Law to say a few more sentences. There is no way that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in setting the price for the next regulatory period has so far failed to comply with all the contracts, whether for US power plants or for photovoltaics. I can't help but mention that all governments in the last ten years have been responsible for the state of energy. But I don't want to name them by name who they are, because those who are trying for one reason or another to do so, you see that all their arguments like boomerang are turning against them. My request is this. Colleagues, in connection with this Law, in order to enable the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to choose the right approach, let us vote on this Bill today, even though I think it will be proposed at second reading, to adopt the Bill at second reading, with the clear awareness that the regulatory period will enter into force from 1 July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u95	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Atalay, I strongly disagree if there is to be a reduction in the salaries of specialists in energy enterprises. This will inevitably lead to a tide and leak of nuclear energy specialists to Turkey, from thermal energy to private power plants. We will lose specialists and put businesses at risk accordingly. To this, I personally speak, I will oppose and defend the work of these people. He, though highly paid, is also highly qualified and valued everywhere in the world. We're just talking about administrative expenses. For administrative and it is not right for me to mention a secretary to receive a thousand and several leva, provided that her colleagues receive much less. Or an accountant, or someone else, where in the labor market you can find a lot of them. That is what we are talking about, otherwise I strongly disagree, so I agree that we should be careful when making criticisms, but these criticisms are constructive. We are talking about administrative costs, about more costs to specific public procurements that do not serve exactly the part it produces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u97	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Second line? Here you go. [[The public representative Chavdar Georgiev is on the stand for a reply.]] Mr. Georgiev, I'm told you don't have time, so I'm sorry, you delayed it. It's been extended, hasn't it? You're in the red, you just don't have time. I'm sorry. The second line remains vacant. I don't see anyone asking for a second line. A hole, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Nikolov, with your statement you gave up second point of your motives. As for the third point, I did not want to mention the ongoing checks by the State Financial Inspection Agency. I believe that enough checks, inspections have been done in these companies so far, and if you mean that you will take advantage of these checks and find a way to influence the price of electricity, I understand. But, colleagues, it is time for Bulgaria to have a strategy for developing its energy. If we do not start there for many more years Mrs. Tsacheva, as far as she is above, we will be making remarks here not to take into account the overall state of energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u99	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. I see the Minister wants the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take occasion from the words of Mr. Atalay and Mr. Nikolov simply to dispel any doubts regarding the government's demand for optimization of expenditure in the sector............................................................................... They mean the administrative costs. This group of costs includes several subgroups. This includes expenditure on external services. I will only quote the 2014 Annual Report of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. This is the consolidated report, which includes all state-owned enterprises. The administrative expenditure for 2014 is 1 billion. 461 million. lv. In this one billion. 461 million. lv. expenditure on salaries, external services, material and other expenditure shall be included. The analysis that we have done so far shows that we will be looking for cost optimization in terms of external service costs, in terms of the other costs, which are approximately half a billion, they are about 500 million. There are also the quoted contracts in connection with flowering, grasses, and so on. So no one is talking about reducing the remuneration of specialists in the sector. There are highly qualified specialists working there that we can only encourage in some way. No one will try in any way to harm their interests, but what we will do is to review the availability of free numbers, unoccupied numbers in the system. They could optimize in some way. And most of all, we will concentrate our efforts on other costs that are purely administrative external services, consulting contracts and any other such costs that burden, so to speak, the system. With regard to what Mr. Atalay said about the checks that many checks have been carried out: Mr. Atalay, in the sector...................................... there have been many checks, but all these checks have been concentrated over the years in the state energy sector, and with regard to the energy companies that form the mix, no such checks have ever been carried out since they were outside the scope of the Law. Now, with the change in the Energy Act, it was given the opportunity to enter these absolutely 100% private companies that no one has ever checked before. This will enable, in addition to the so-called renewable energy sources, to check energy enterprises as well. These are the tecs, the plant plants, the US plants and, of course, the companies from state energy. So I just wanted to make that clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u101	There are three other MPs so far listed for speech. Mr. Zelenogorski is fine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u102	Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable Members! Yesterday and today there were really important debates about Bulgarian energy. I am convinced that they are useful both in terms of getting into the expertise of the problem and in terms of what society expects from the possible, I hope, effective reform of Bulgarian energy. We of the Reformation bloc are pleased that this debate has taken place. Everything I have heard from Mrs. Ivan Ivanov and now from Mrs. Petkova is satisfactory, but it is very important for us to have what we talked about the next month - optimization of administrative expenditure, optimization of structures, improvement of the organization, all the things that society expects. You know that yesterday there was also a meeting of representatives of the Council of Ministers with employers, with the Bulgarian business, with trade unions. Certain arrangements have been reached, which are a good start for us, and for this reason we in the Reformation Block believe that it is important at this time to support this bill. We've also heard from the Prime Minister on this subject. I am pleased that he also confirmed before me the idea of a stricter control, of a faster reform in the field of energy and indeed of a consistent effort, which will lead to the reform of the state part of Bulgarian energy in the coming years, and with regard to those checks, which Minister Petkova talked about, the checks and analyses that the KEWRC is making, in any event, everything related to the pricing methodology, to the mix, to those, unfortunately, bad draining practices will be terminated. In any case, we will insist, as we said yesterday and today, Mrs. Petkova, at the end of July to hear what happened this month, to what extent the necessary optimization has been done, to what extent administrative expenditure has been reduced. I don't want to export any more information than I did yesterday, but in any case, I assure you, there is something to be done about the administrative structures being optimized. I do not want to be misunderstood by our major specialists who work in the field of energy. It is not a question of reducing the salary of the ordinary worker, the magnificent specialist at the nuclear power plant, Kozloduy. Here it is that the top management in the Bulgarian state energy should still bear part of the burden that the entire Bulgarian society carries. I continue to argue that it is not possible and acceptable for the Prime Minister of Bulgaria to receive less than the top managers in the Bulgarian energy sector. If we are to say that he does not perform responsible functions, or that Mrs. Tsacheva, or that the President of Bulgaria is less responsible than these top managers, sorry, we have the wrong perspective. After all, Bulgaria is in this situation. Pleven surgeons take 700 leva each day to save lives. Are they important?! Is it important that a teacher educates our children?! If she and the Bulgarian education system do not do their job, tomorrow the whole society will suffer. The prospect is clear. In my opinion we should all realize that we live in Bulgaria, the financial opportunities of the country are such, all will have to bear part of this burden and responsibility. Finally, once again, let me confirm that we will support the bill and insist on stricter control. Somehow I don't want it to be like it usually happens. There's a debate going on, and after a year the old song is going on in a new voice. I assure you that we from the Reformation Bloc will insist every month if we decide by asking questions or by discussing here in the Chamber, that we are aware of what is happening with Bulgarian energy, as we want to know what is happening with Bulgarian healthcare or with Bulgarian education, all important spheres without which a self-respecting society cannot function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u103	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. - What's the line? I won't. Now we're gonna do a 30-minute break. We'll continue at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u104	Please invite the Quaestors to the plenary. The time for interruption is definitely over. I invite the MPs to the plenary. The leadership of the parliamentary groups, secure the coworkers. The hearing is ongoing. We have two registered MPs for speeches. The first is Mr. Kiril Tsochev, after him is Delyan Dobrev. Mr. Tsochev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, on Sunday after the extraordinary joint meeting of the government and employers' organizations, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev said, I quote: "If anyone has reason to seek responsibility from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC), it is the Bulgarian Parliament. The Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory thus planned an increase in electricity prices entered the Chamber and yesterday we heard the reasons and explanations of the President and the members of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. I would like to remind you that, under European legislation, regulatory institutions in the energy community, when performing their functions, do independent analyses and assessments and should be able to make entirely independent decisions. As for parliamentary control or supervision of the energy regulatory committee, it is permissible only if it does not influence the decision-making process. The point is to prevent political or other influence on the institution. I am saying all this to make it clear that the Commission's right and responsibility for energy and water regulated is whether or not it will take the opportunity to postpone the new regulatory period by one month, provided that we accept the change in the Energy Act. I propose that we return to the concrete proposal, which is the subject of discussion, and break the political populism in plenary. And the state of Bulgarian energy and, above all, its future is worth discussing on purpose in plenary, for example, when adopting the country's energy strategy by 2030, with a vision until 2050. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u106	Thank you, Mr. Tsochev. - What's the line? I won't. Thank you for your proper speech. Mr. Delyan Dobrev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u107	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, Madam Minister, I will try to be brief, as this debate has gone on too long. In any case, we have repeatedly deviated from the subject and started a joint discussion about energy and not just about it, unfortunately. I'll be brief and to the point. The reason why I ask the floor is not so much to set out the reasons again or to defend the proposal, but rather to take another step forward by giving the government further confidence in the support of parliament, for what is to happen in the next month, because the important issue is not to extend the deadline by one month, but to do a job that will really lead to some change in the baseline data on the KEWR model. You know that as early as February, Parliament adopted amendments to the Energy Act, with which we dare to claim that energy reform in terms of legislation has been completed. At the meeting between employers and trade unions at the prime minister a few days ago, additional legislative changes were discussed, which we will discuss today at 15:00 in the Energy Commission, where we have invited both employers and trade unions and possibly to submit them next week, so that they can be voted by the plenary at second reading and enter into force in the next month. These additional changes, I want to be very clear, their financial effect is within a few million. They won't solve the problem. In short, they won't solve the problem. And the legislative change in terms of limiting the hours to 1250 and above those hours, the sale of electricity on a free market, which in itself as a measure will result in an effect of less than 10 million, and the small RES financed under the Rural Development Programme, to which we will approach for greater fairness to change their preferential price, because given that they have received grants, there is no way to ask for the same investment to be paid through the price of electricity. There, the effect, by my rude calculations, will also be between 7 and 10 million. So these changes, which the National Assembly is about to vote on, will not solve the problem. The problem can be solved by reforming state companies and by checking the Agency for State Financial Institutions (AFFI). These are the two main sources from which substantial savings can be obtained. One of my colleagues just asked: "What will be the effect of reducing these administrative costs, of supporting staff in state energy as a whole? " For 2015, the total amount of these administrative costs is 780 million. Ten percent means 78 million of this change alone for the first year. In the second year, the additional 10% is 156 million, and in the third year it will be 234 million. That 234 million must be saved for every year after the third year. So the potential from this point of view is essential. This is not just about the number of employees in the sector or salaries. Because once again we fell into a populism, they gave us BGN 2,000. Is it a high salary or a low salary? Of course it depends on what you do for a living. There are cases where 2000 leva. is a very high salary and others, in which if you are a specialist, if you are responsible at a nuclear plant, BGN 2000. is a low salary. It's not just about wages and numbers of people. We are talking about all other procedures relating to collective agreements (CTDs), such as transport, food, workwear and not only. My recommendation and the support we want to give you is to be particularly careful in conducting procedures in each of the companies on these feathers, not only on these feathers, but also on these feathers, because in recent years we have seen how only one of these orders...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u108	Mr. Dobrev, this recommendation at the Energy Committee meeting. Return to the specific bill we are discussing right now. Clearly, this does not deprive us of questions. We will move forward, but there is no possibility for this debate to talk about all the things ahead of us about acceptance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u109	Thanks for the remark. If I may, two sentences because they are related to the subject and concern this period of one month. If we do not take the measures I am talking about in this month, it is better not to vote on this bill, although I am an importer and not to give an additional period of one month. If you continue to have only one participant in these procedures, or finally to remain only one participant, it is like a race with one horse. I will not talk about the 25 million that are given to the workers every year or to the 10 million subsidy that is given to the energy bases. I will conclude by saying that in this month it is extremely important to see the results of the ADPI checks and hope that they will do their job properly. You are an excellent professional in this particular area, and from this point of view, I think it is nice to hold on to if you do not have a daily, at least weekly contact with your colleagues to make sure that they provide this information that the regulator needs to make the necessary decisions afterwards. As far as I can see the mood in plenary, most of the parliamentary groups will support the bill, and we would like to show you that we support your efforts and count on the reforms to really happen in the next month, to happen the things that we are giving this period of one month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u110	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Are there any other MPs who wish to participate in the debate? I won't. The debate is closed. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to prepare for a vote. I put to the first vote a bill to supplement the Energy Act, No 554-01-120. They voted 147 MPs: 126, against 12, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Procedure, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u111	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am making a procedural proposal in view of the reduced time limits within which we must adopt the bill and that the bill consists of only two paragraphs, one of which is when the Law enters into force, I propose that we use the possibility given by the Rules on which we are working to move to a vote at the second reading of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u112	In accordance with art. 77, para. 2 The National Assembly may decide, exceptionally, that the two votes be held in one sitting. This provision shall apply only if no proposals for amendments or additions to the Bill have been made during the discussion. Since there are no such proposals made in the debate, I put to the vote Mr. Dobrev's procedural proposal to hold, exceptionally, the two votes in a plenary sitting. We vote, fellow Members. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB. A line from the MP Chavdar Georgiev.]] Cancel the vote. Inverse proposal Mr. Georgiev. [[Replyes: We are already in voting procedure.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u113	Madam President, honourable Members! During the speeches, there were several proposals that were for amendments to the text of the Draft Law "Wanted to change the deadline of three months, of six months..." Isn't that an amendment? [[Noise and lines from "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u114	Quote who specifically made such a proposal? [[Replys from "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u115	Let's see the shorthand...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u116	I've met the transcripts, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u117	Here, they're raising their hands, which they've made. [[Noise and lines from "Attacka."]] I therefore propose that the draft should not be voted on in two readings in one sitting. I also ask that you put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u118	I put to the vote the proposal for a simultaneous vote on two readings in a plenary sitting of the Bill. Vote 151 MPs: 121, against 29, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] There is no negative explanation for the procedural vote. Report, Mr. Dobrev. [[Noise and lines from "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u119	Dear colleagues! "The Act for Supplement to the Energy Act" ................................................................................... In the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Energy (SG, No. 17 from 2015) Paragraph 47a is inserted: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) The price/regulating period ending on 30 June 2015 for the prices of companies in the sector (2) In the case of an extension of the term under para. 1 The Commission shall rule on applications for price validation submitted by energy undertakings until the entry into force of this law. An open meeting or public discussion shall be held as necessary within the time limits set by the Commission. Final provision § 2. The Law shall enter into force from 30 June 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u120	Statements? Mrs. Tasheva, after her Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u121	Statements? Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u122	Gentlemen of the ruling majority, you're in a hurry! So, if you could just give me five minutes to get this whole thing over with. There is absolutely no reason for this period to be one month and not three months. In one month you have no technological time to do what you have so pompously stated in the title and in the motives of this Bill. You can't bake a lamb in 15 minutes. You cannot release resources, for example, by taking away RES licences that are outlawed for a month. Here we heard from the Patriotic Front that for this month they were going to find out which ERPs are selling more power than the one in the permit. Well, this has already been established by the Temporary Energy Commission! That's why Mr. Bayraktarov knows there are RESs. The withdrawal procedure cannot end in one month. In one month, however, you will sell off stations to public energy enterprises to people from your clientele and you will say that you have released 40 million or 20 million resources, which is nothing less than 1% of what is needed. This Law, as formulated and with a one-month extension, can lead to nothing but another plundering and maiming of state energy, of course, for the benefit of the American brands and the ERPs. That's what you're doing right now! Let it be known that after this month, you will have to account for what you have done. I am convinced that all your achievements will be limited in the fact that you have preserved the social benefits of the people of the NPP. Shame on you! [[Loud noise, lines and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u123	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u124	Madam President, honourable Members! The ruling majority is offering us another senseless and stupid law, but that is their responsibility. They want us to accept it, and it's obviously going that way. By reading the text of the Bill, we ask ourselves: why is this Bill needed? A month will obviously not solve anything. I dare say that in two or three weeks you will again want to change this term. It's more interesting to read al. 2 of the proposed text, which is absolutely pointless, without any regulatory functions. I wonder why the importers offer it. In the event of an extension of the period under para. 1 The Commission shall decide on the application for the validation of prices submitted by the energy undertakings until the entry into force of this Act. Well, she shouldn't have ruled on applications for prices! What do we need this text for?! And when we ask ourselves these questions, we also come to the next sentence, which reads: "If necessary, an open meeting or public discussion is held within the deadlines set by the Commission. Obviously you want the upcoming price increase to become dark, indoor, quick and no one to understand and then say: "Well, well, that was the circumstances. The National Assembly has decided so, and the people will still understand nothing. I strongly object to the adoption of this Law. First of all, because it doesn't give anything new as regulation. Secondly, because it clearly aims to make the upcoming price changes dark, quickly, without public discussion. Imagine what the Commission will decide within a month if there is a need or not? Well, from now on, I will tell you the Commission will decide that there is no need.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u125	Are you in charge of the Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u126	No, I suppose, Mr. Ivanov, with sufficient certainty. That's why I'm making a procedural editorial proposal. 2 drop from the text of the Bill and remain only para. 1. I ask that this be put to the vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u127	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Come in for a statement, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u128	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! What has just been introduced to us as amendments to the Energy Act in the form of a law supplementing the Energy Act, and reading its reasons for import, legitimizes the model on which the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is currently proposing that prices be formed during the new price period, because importers themselves write in their motives supporting the price model.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u129	At first reading, Mr. Ermenkov, you spoke on the grounds. We are now on the concrete proposals at the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u130	I am speaking on the opinions made by the importer, Madam President, to argue what I will say next. In practice, with the support of this model, what is being done at the moment is another redeployment of the puzzle that currently exists in energy, without giving answers to those questions that we really need to discuss and are subject to legal changes, and not in the way that they are proposed, namely: how to reduce the burden of long-term contracts with RES, how to reduce the burden of concluded long-term contracts with US power plants? I would agree to support a possible extension of the regulatory price period by another month if it was requested by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, but it did not ask for this thing. Even in yesterday's speeches, we heard that any delay they believe will lead to additional deficits in the system. What we are doing right now is giving them the chance to be responsible if they decide to continue their regulatory price period for a month, so it is written, it can. I would agree, perhaps, if the minister in her exhibitions so far, defending this bill, had explained where the money would come from to reduce the weight of the green supplement by 85% for all the other enterprises that are expected to enter the so-called After the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission said, "We have 97 million buffers that allow us to reduce only 300 gigawatts of energy. Where will this money be taken, who will pay it, whether it will affect the price at the end?! I would have agreed, eventually, if importers concerned about the State and, in this period when we authorised them and they had declared that right, would have objected as a principal to the Commission's decision on energy and water regulation to reduce the cost of NEK by 4,3%, to the public supplier. I would understand that because that would be a concern for state energy. I would understand if we had adopted any legal changes here this month, which would regulate the way carbon emissions will be able to go freely to the National Energy Company, and not now not to know how it will happen. [[GERB's line.]] We don't know, we don't know, Mr.....not to say the name, so we don't have to go into personal explanations later, not to waste time. I could accept that if the principal of BEH had raised the question why the electricity continues to be sold to the nuclear power plant will be for technological costs when 50% of the production of this plant goes to these technological costs? And they're almost twice the cost, including the ERP thefts with that money. I'd understand that. I would understand, for example, if the principal had asked why we were reducing by 7% the price of electricity produced by the state power plant, but no, and we are doing something here that, again, I say, is a government crisis PR for his unfinished work, and we want to adopt a law that makes absolutely no sense at all. I call on you, colleagues, be worthy legislators, do not become an addition to those of the executive who have not done their job and we give them an indulgence for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u131	- What's the line? Mr. Karakachanov, first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u132	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, what we are going to vote on today is an opportunity to start doing something. You raise your shoulders, but that's something you didn't do in previous governments. This is an opportunity for this month to complete the work of the Temporary Commission, to remove the problems, to make a serious debate and then the government to start acting. I don't understand what you don't understand. I don't understand what you're suggesting. You're suggesting from July 1st to raise the price of electricity. Is that what you and the lady who spoke before you propose? I can't understand you! If you want us to push the government to do the job without raising the price of electricity, the way to do it is to give it a chance. Yes, we wanted three months, but you know very well that by procedure this thing can't happen if we want the vote to go on two readings. There is no way this is going to happen if we want the newj price period from 1 July not to enter. We also have a prom in the Official Gazette. That's what I'm talking about. Don't act like you don't understand what you're talking about. The question to which you should answer by voting is very simple? Do you want from 1 July the Bulgarian business and Bulgarian citizens to pay more expensive electricity, or do you not want to? If you don't want to, let's do some body parts this month and get it done. That's logic. It's very clear. Do not act on the principle: "The worse it is for the state, the worse it is for those in charge! " This is a principle that everyone has used for 25 years and that is why we have brought Bulgaria to this day to compare it with Albania, but I am not sure whether the similarities with Albania are in our favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u133	Second line, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Ermenkov! When I listen to you, you really do have one big misunderstanding. I'll tell you one more thing you obviously don't understand. You don't understand and you can't understand that we're actually giving it a chance. You didn't realize that the regulator itself yesterday said that this month made sense if the measures we are talking about really came into force and changed the base on which the regulator would give a new price model. I can't understand how you don't understand something that's so simple when you've been dealing with this area for so many years? Even if by 1% the price model is reduced, the price is reduced or in some form to ease business and industry and so on, I do not see why we, as MPs, persist to give this opportunity? Let's pass this month, let's see what measures will be taken. With this misunderstanding you rather, as Mr. Karakachanov said, as if you were saying: "We like everything as it is now." You are against increasing the price of electricity, and you are against giving the Ministry of Energy or possibly the National Assembly the opportunity to take additional measures. Obviously, with this misunderstanding, that's how you've ruled back in the years, so we've come to this situation, but let's not go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u135	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ermenkov, then Mrs. Tasheva for a personal explanation. [[Field lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u136	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Karakachanov, we disagree with the increase in the price of electricity. We have stated this repeatedly, including in a declaration from the National Assembly stand 15 days ago, when we criticised the model on which the price is being made at the moment. So don't put things in our minds that aren't right and we didn't say anything. And now, under the current law that we adopted in February 2015, the Commission has the opportunity to change prices every three months in the price period if it finds new circumstances. It could also now come up with a decision not to change prices, as there are insufficient grounds for this change. We don't have to adopt laws that say we can, we can't, we can't, we can't, but you can, if you want. That's not the law! The law obliges and gives powers and is not of a desirable nature, which we are currently trying to do and which is not true. Mr. Nenkov, I understand very well what this is about. But didn't we all vote here together not to interfere with the Commission's position on energy and water regulation? I started by saying that if this Commission, and not you, had asked for these changes, there was some logic to discuss them. Because the Commission, being elected by parliament, has turned to the one who chose it with a request for change. And we're not here to impose on her what and how it's supposed to happen and whether or not it can happen. I'm telling you again, with this law, we don't decide anything. We wash our hands, first, with the word we can. Secondly, we have been diverting public attention for the second day of the real problems in energy to justify the government's unfinished work and to remain one person in white, and everyone else to feel dirty in these discussions. And thirdly, it will end up so that the Commission will take the decision to raise prices because, alas, this is philosophy. But you're not going to say anything after that, "We were responsible for giving her this opportunity to wash her hands with us." Because if she postpones it, she'll do it, and then she'll blame us for it. And the last thing, guys. I understand your concern for the industry, but for two days I've been listening here for prices, and not once have I heard anyone care about the cost of being beaten. We're just talking about the industry! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u137	Mrs. Tasheva has the floor for a personal explanation. [[Noise, lines, calls from PF.]] Her name wasn't given, but she was individualized enough with the sentence the lady who spoke earlier. [[Loud noise from PF.]] Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u138	Mr. Karakachanov, on 27 October 2014 the party "Ataka" submitted a legislative proposal for a 6-month moratorium on current prices at the current level until a new energy strategy was developed to bring the country back to energy, ergo, to increase the share of competitive state-owned enterprises nuclear power plants Kozloduy and TPP Maritsa East 2, with larger quotas in the mix. A few weeks ago, less than a month ago, under art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure again introduced this legislative proposal and you voted against it. [[Field lines]] We never said! We've never said anything. We've never said anything with behavior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u139	Explain what you were offended by, Mrs. Tasheva, for calling you a lady.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u140	...that we want the price of electricity to rise. On the contrary, since we are in parliament, we have been fighting for domestic consumption of electricity and heat to be secured by state-owned enterprises, as unlike foreign investors, only state-owned enterprises in Bulgaria are competitive and sell at competitive prices. Write it down, if you please, when the next time you decide, just like that, for a change, to attack the party. So, you didn't understand anything about what was said...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u141	There was no attack on the party.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u142	...even though you're standing on this tall department. [[Field lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u143	Colleagues, on the occasion of a reply to a Member of the National Assembly, the replicator has made such a statement, which clearly refers to the Member of the National Assembly who spoke earlier. The only lady who spoke at the second reading of the Bill was Mrs. Tasheva. Art. 57, para. 1 says: "The National Representative shall have the right to a personal explanation within two minutes of being personally or individually affected in a speech in plenary. " There hasn't been a roll call, but it's individualized enough with the words.. for the third time I say: the lady who spoke before me. There is no possibility for a personal explanation of a personal explanation. Mr. Stanislav Ivanov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u144	Thank you, Madam President. I ask you to put to the vote my proposal to end the debate and move on to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear colleagues, colleagues on the left, you managed in the previous format of the National Assembly with your cabinet. Dear colleagues, at the time we were so confused about what you were doing, that your MPs would come out and say: Colleagues, you are very confused, both you and your ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u145	Please concentrate on your procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u146	You don't raise prices and you don't have that right. Don't fool people! Let's vote, let's extend the deadline. We'll take the blame after that. And not like you, I say again: some MPs say one thing, the minister says another: "Don't listen to them from my group. They don't know what this is about. Colleagues, this has led to the current state of energy. I'm not going to return you to the 500 million you were going to sell out of emissions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u147	Mr. Ivanov, there is no possibility in this procedure that you will return the debate this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u148	You brought the energy here. Give us a chance to fix it if we don't take responsibility. My procedure is to end the debate and vote on the texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u149	Thank you. Is there a reverse opinion? Mr. Ramadan Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, we have done this before, and we have stopped the debate when populism prevailed. I think today should be clear. Those who support the Bill whether they are doing so to enable the independent regulator to look at all the accounts once again and if there is an opportunity to transparently reduce the price to the end user and to be in favor and in service of the business. The debate is still going in that direction. With two sentences to say that the DPS will support the Bill with the clear awareness that the populism of reformers and the Patriotic Front did not pass today. With this extension they burden NEK with 59 million obligations for each month delaying the regulatory period from now on. At the same time, if you had given Mr. Delyan Dobrev an opportunity just now to explain the proposals that the Ministry has that within this month we would cover the 59 million, then there was no way not to vote for the amendment of this Law. Colleagues, that is why I say: if the quadruple coalition has not yet agreed what you are doing and how you will vote on the bill, let us sit down and agree. [[GERB lines.]] It is about energy, electricity prices for the end-user, electricity prices for the business, it is about an attempt to transfer responsibility from the Prime Minister to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly to come out with honor and not take responsibility for us. That's what I'm talking about, guys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u151	I put to the vote Mr. Stanislav Ivanov's proposal to end the debates and move on to the vote. Vote 147 MPs: 100 against 41 abstentions 6. The motion is accepted. Mr. Karakachanov's procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u152	Mrs. Tsacheva, in the manner of conduct. I've noticed several times that in the last month you've been cursing at a parliamentary group. One time you kicked a colleague of ours out of the courtroom for no good reason. Now you are giving a lady the opportunity to speak without having any reason to, without being affected in any way. The question was very simple and clear: do you want from 1 July to raise the price of electricity, or do you not want? On the one hand, you say: "We don't want to. " - On the other hand, you are against the bill. This may mean that the reform of Minister Moskov has not yet entered and the patients are not well cared for. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u153	We're in voting mode. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mr. Chavdar Georgiev, who proposes in § 1 for changes in § 47a by importer, to drop para. 2. We vote on Mr. Georgiev's proposal. They voted 145 MPs: 23, against 107, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u154	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against the removal of para. 2, because Mr. Chavdar Georgiev is wrong. I'm sorry he's not here, but he's obviously not very familiar with the price-acceptance procedure in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The second sentence says: "If necessary, an open meeting or public discussion is held, because they have already gone to this stage of the procedure. We do not vote not to do it, but rather the opposite, we vote to do it once again if there is a change in parameters. The first sentence concerns applications already submitted to the Commission. If this sentence is not available, it means that all companies will again start applying with rates of prices. Please colleagues before making proposals to get acquainted with legislation. That was my negative vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u155	I now put to the vote the titles of the Law on the Supplement to the Law on Energy, § 1, the name of the section of the Law on Energy, § 2, and § 2. Vote 148 MPs: 133, against 13, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. [[Relations from the National Representative Krasimir Velchev.]] Mr. Martin Dimitrov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I am making a procedural proposal for a second point of the National Assembly's Work Programme this week, namely the second vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Labour Code to become a point. 15 on the agenda for the week.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u157	And the other points to withdraw one step further, that is, to continue with the energy theme, discussing the draft decision on extending the term of work of the Temporary Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u158	Yeah, and the other dots move one step ahead, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u159	Thank you. Come back, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u160	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm making a counterproposal of this. As I understand it, Mr. Dimitrov proposed that the examination of the second vote of the Labour Code should be postponed to the fifteenth point, which means that the vote will not happen this week, but the next or the other. And then it seems inexplicable to me that this haste to shorten time limits for the Labour Code between the first and second votes, because the motive for this reduction of time limits was that the people of the farmers expect the adoption of this Bill that the season of seasonal work is underway for farmers and the later we postpone this law, the more difficult it will be to employ labour in agriculture. So I'm making a reverse offer. It didn't make sense of all the actions we've done so far to delay it back in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u161	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. I put to the vote Mr. Martin Dimitrov's proposal. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 138 MPs: 103, against 32, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. [[Heckling]] Have you failed to vote, Mr. Ermenkov? Colleagues, more than clear is the relationship between the two points. The Minister is here, so we propose to vote on the draft decision so that the Minister lady can participate. What don't you understand? [[The National Representative Tasco Ermenkov addresses the chairman outside the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u162	Colleagues, since I have entered into a dialogue here with the chairwoman, do not think it is something intimate. I am explaining to you what this is about. [[Radio.]] It is about the fact that if you had offered to move the points, there would be no problem with the second with the third which follow, and at the moment, colleagues from GERB, excuse me, but you voted yesterday for this bill to go second, and now you are voting to go last. Explain for yourself what you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u163	What are you suggesting right now? Do you want a re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u164	I propose a rewording so that people can have the opportunity to become in harmony with themselves, and not to contradict yesterday's behavior. Thank you. [[Noise and lines, raging.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u165	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 129 MPs: 96, against 31, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO APPROVE THE ACTION OF THE TEMPORARY ANCETAL COMMISSION FOR THE MOVEMENT AND ASSESSMENT OF ENERGY SITUATION IN BULGARIA TO 31 JANUARY 2015 Importer "Valery Simeonov." In the absence of Mr. Simeonov I will introduce you to the Project for: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the extension of the Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Prolonges the period of validity of the Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015 until 31 July 2015 The debate is open. Now you have the opportunity to speak. Are there any speeches? Mr. Chukolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u166	Dear colleagues, this Commission, which we are discussing, according to information from Magdalena Tasheva, who is a Commissioner, has really loaded herself with an extremely important task to light up the sector, to see who has what dependencies in the energy sector and why, in recent years, the price of electricity is constantly, constantly increasing. Ministers, experts come out, and everyone in one clever word explains how it is inevitable, how at all costs the price should be raised simply because tomorrow may not come if the price of electricity is not raised. This Commission is really working. We at Ataka will vote for an extension of this Commission's period of work, but where is the President of this Commission Mr. Simeonov? Where is he? Where is it? In a balneosanatorium, he's healing his nervous system? Somewhere? The season has opened. Is she looking at her hotels? Where is it? Where's Mr. Simeonov? [[Noise and lines.]] Is he somewhere on a resort? I don't know. He was supposed to, Mr. Simeonov, be here in the hall even yesterday, when we discuss here, for two days we're actually discussing what's going on in this sector. He was supposed to be here and perhaps some interim report to give, to tell us what findings this committee of inquiry has reached, because the Commission is currently working in such a regime that is closed, closed regime. There is hardly any information being exported to the media, and therefore we are debating here for two days, and it is precisely this Commission, which should have delivered this information, that the President is missing. That is why we, again, are going to vote in favour, but it is a huge failure that the President of this Commission is not in its place these days. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. A line? Mr. Kasabov, just please stick to the subject. [[Radio, lines.]] Mr. Kasabov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chukolov, in order to calm your burdens, worries, worries, I will tell you where Valeri Simeonov is, but before that I will tell you where he is not. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Not in a room of 1400 euros a night. [[Laughter and excitement. "Attack" lines.]] He's not in King George.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u169	Mr. Kasabov, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u170	It is not somewhere else in the world, it is in Strasbourg of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and is discussing important topics. [[Noise and lines from "Attacka."]] You will leave them there for a later hour when the white wind blows. Thank you. [[Applause from the PF. Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u171	Thank you, Mr. Kasabov. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, this subject, you know we've been discussing it for weeks. It's been wonderfully known that these things will be voted on this week. [[Reply from PF: Not true!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u173	Please, no calls from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u174	I have been a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and I know how things work there. It is hardly the absence of Mr Simeonov at the session in Strasbourg that will be so important. When he is present there, he usually votes against Russia, but this is another matter. [[Noise, lines and laughter from the Patriotic Front.]] As for Varadero, some hotels, you were dreaming. The Parliamentary Tribune is no place to dream. There are serious speeches to be made here and the lack of Valeri Simeonov this week has in no way helped the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. We understand your point. Any further comments? I can't see. We're closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Honourable Members, we are voting on the Draft Decision on the extension of the Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015. The draft decision has already been read. Please vote. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against 1, no abstentions. The proposal has been adopted and the deadline has been extended. Before we move on to the next point, a procedure. Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal for the replacement of the National Assembly's Work Programme. I propose that we move on to a second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions adopted at the first vote on 12 June 2015 and that the bill for amendment and supplement of the Penal Code submitted by the Council of Ministers and by various MPs be the next item.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u177	You are essentially suggesting that the fourth and fifth points are exchanged and we start by looking at point five. Thank you. A counteroffer? I can't see. Please vote on the procedural proposal made by Mrs. Atanasova. Vote 91 MPs: 80 against 9, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAW. Importers: Mrs. Atanasova and a group of MPs, 3 June 2015, adopted on the first vote on 12 June 2015. Here you are, Mrs. Stoyanova, to present the report to the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The Commission's Report on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act No 554-01-109, submitted by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 3 June 2015, adopted at the first vote on 12 June 2015. Law amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u179	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I can't see. We vote on the proposed name of the Law. Vote 69 MPs: for 69, against and abstention there is no. The proposal for the name of the Law has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u180	Proposal of the MPs Georgi Kovachev, Hristo Todorov and Svetlin Tanchev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is "2." in its subject-matter it shall be explicitly indicated the relevant activity under art. 2, para. 2, p. 6, 7 and 12 or under art. 3, para. 1, t. 2 and 3;
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u181	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 1 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u182	Paragraph 1 of the importing proposal of the MPs Korman Ismailov, Dimitar Tanev, Grozdan Karadzhov and Martin Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Rumen Gechev, Zhelyo Boychev and Stoyan Mirchev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Desislava Atanasova, Menda Stoyanova, Yordan Tsonev, Iskren Veselinov, Boris Yachev, Rumen Gechev, Snezhana Dukova, Anna Alexandrova, Krasen Krastev and Dimitar Tanev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word the liquidators. The temporary syndics are added. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The persons referred to in paragraph 3 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. 1 sign a declaration of secrecy on entering into office, respectively prior to the completion of the assigned work. 3. In para. 5 the Union................................................................................................. 12 in the case of a bank in insolvency proceedings. 4. They're creating an al. 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17: Within 6 months of entry into the commercial register of the decision under art. 13 of the Bankruptcy Act, the insolvency practitioner of a bank shall disclose: 1. natural and legal persons and the amount of their deposits within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 1 of the additional provisions of the Deposit Guarantee Act in banks which have been granted preferential interest rates at a deviation from the conditions announced by the bank which apply to their depositors if those persons have committed transactions with their deposits after placing the bank under special supervision; 2. natural and legal persons and the amount of their loans and deposits within the meaning of § 1, item 2. 1 of the additional provisions of the Deposit Guarantee Act in banks which have been granted preferential interest rates at a deviation from the conditions announced by the bank which apply to its depositors and borrowers for a period of two years before the date of insolvency; 3. natural and legal persons who have reported the transfer of their claim or have made a claim for seizure after placing the bank under special supervision; 4. credit transactions in which: (a) no collateral is agreed or collateral is agreed at a value lower than the amount of the credit used; (b) the collateral contracted has not been properly established; (c) the rights of the hostage creditor on them under the order laid down by law have not been maintained after due settlement, including where the entry of a special pledge has not been renewed, has not been submitted to the creditor or is not available at the date of disclosure of the real pledge; (d) property originating in the bank within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 6 of the additional provisions of the Bankruptcy Act are provided by a borrower to other persons and the amount of any of the transactants exceeds BGN 50 000 and the persons are disclosed consistently; the threshold requirement does not apply to the persons under art. 2, para. 1 and 3 of the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions; (e) pre-negotiated loans in respect of the period of execution, the amount and type of collateral, where not agreed in the basic contract; 5. the amount of deposits and loans of political parties, the persons referred to in art. 2, para. 1 and 3 of the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions, of the members of the Supervisory Board and of the Management Board of the Bank and of the legal persons for whom information under para. 15; 6. consulting contracts, leases and other retributive and grant contracts concluded between the bank and the persons under art. 2, para.1 and 3 of the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions, members of the Supervisory Board and the Board of the Bank and legal persons for whom information under para. 15. (13) Information under para. 12, t. 4, 5 and 6 refer to a period of 5 years prior to the date of withdrawal of the bank's licence in insolvency proceedings. The reports shall also apply to the persons referred to in art. 2, para. 1 and 3 of the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions which first held such positions in the period referred to in the sentence. (14) If in the cases referred to in para. 12, t. 4 there is grounds for bringing legal proceedings with a legal basis under art. 60a of the Bankruptcy Act, the information under para. 12, t. 4 (d) shall be published after the case has been opened. (15) The President of the Court of Auditors shall make available to the trade union in electronic format: 1. List of persons referred to in art. 2, para. 1 and 3 of the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions, including persons who held such positions in the period under para. 13 sentence first, within 14 days of the date of entry of the decision under art. 13 of the Bankruptcy Act, and 2. information on the persons declared under point 2. 1 holdings of valuable books, shares in limited liability companies and command companies, name shares in public limited liability companies, including those acquired through participation in privatisation transactions outside the cases of bonova (mass) privatisation, within 30 days of the date of entry of the decision under art. 13 of the Bankruptcy Act. Within 14 days of the verification by the Court of Auditors under art. 7 of the Law on the publicity of the property of persons occupying senior state and other positions, the President of the Court of Auditors shall inform the Syndicates of a change in the circumstances under point. 2. (16) The records referred to in para. 12 shall be made public on the website of the Deposit Guarantee Fund in banks immediately after receipt by the trade union. The following information shall be disclosed: 1. 12, t. 1 The names of the natural persons, the names and legal form of the legal persons, sole traders and non-personalised legal entities, the balances on the deposit at the date of placing the bank under special supervision, the type and value of the transaction; 2 times para. 12, t. 2 The names of natural persons, names and legal forms of legal persons, sole traders and non-personalised legal entities, the maximum amount of deposits for the two-year period; 3 times para. 12, t. 3 The names of the natural persons, names and legal form of legal persons, sole traders and non-personalised legal entities, the type and value of the transaction; 4. 12, t. 4 The names of the natural persons, the names and legal form of the legal persons, sole traders and non-personalised legal entities, the authorised amount and the maximum amount of the credits used; 5 times para. 12, t. 5 The names of the natural persons, their office and political parties, the maximum amount of deposits for the five-year period, the authorised amount and the maximum amount of loans used; 6. 12, t. 6 The names of the natural persons, the position held by them, the subject matter and value of the contracts concluded; the total amount of those carried out by the bank for the period under para. 13 payments per contract. (17) The records referred to in para. 12 which are contained in a report of a parliamentary committee established by a decision of the National Assembly, which has become known in connection with the verification of facts and circumstances relating to the activity of a bank in insolvency proceedings, may be made public regardless of their disclosure under para. 16................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u183	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 2 by numbering and in the version of the Commission's report. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u184	According to § 2 an importer there is a proposal from Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64, para. 1 the following additions are 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 in the beginning is added the temporary syndics. 2. A t is created. 5a: 5a. The Court of Auditors for the purposes of its audits of the activities of the Bulgarian National Bank;
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u185	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 3 in the numbering and version of the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u186	There is a proposal from the MP Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to establish § 4: ............................................ In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Credit Institutions (Event No. 27 from 2014) Paragraph 80 creates Paragraph 80. 6: The financial institutions referred to in para. 1 and 4 which have submitted licence documents, respectively for re-registered within the statutory period, are entitled to continue to carry out their business until the licence is obtained, respectively registration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u187	Statements? I won't. We vote § 4. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u188	'Concluding provision'. The Commission supports the name in principle and proposes the following version of the name of the division:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u189	We vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u190	Under § 3, there is a proposal from Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. There is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 3, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In the Law on Bankruptcy (prom., SG No. 92 of 2002, amended, No. No. 67 of 2003, No. 36, 2004, No. No. 31 and 105 of 2005, No. 30, 34, 59 and 80 of 2006, No. No. 53 and 59 of 2007, No. No. 67 of 2008, No. 105 of 2011 and No. No. 98 of 2014, No. 22 and 41 of 2015) the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) a new t is created. 18: 18. extend the time limits referred to in art. 50, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 52, para 1, art. 64, para. Art. 1, art. 66, para. Art. 5, art. 78, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 79, para. 1 at the reasoned request of the trade union; the request shall be made before the expiry of the period; (bb) The previous item. 18 becomes t. 19; (b) in para. 3 the words "seventeen" shall be replaced by "17" and "18"; (c) in para. The first sentence shall be replaced by the 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) a new t is created. 15: ..15. authorise the temporary Syndicates, Syndicates and members of the Management Board of the Fund to access the tracking data of transactions relating to the return of received assets originating in a bank in bankruptcy in the real-time gross settlement payment system under art. 103 of the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems and to the TARGET 2BNB system; (bb) The previous item. 15 is going to be t. 16; (b) A new para shall be created. 2: In the cases referred to in para. 1, t. 15 Access shall be granted at the request of the fund or of the temporary trade union or of the trade union approved by the fund to the insolvency court. The insolvency court shall rule by reasoned decision in closed session no later than 24 hours after receipt of the request, determining the period to which the data relate. The decision of the court shall not be subject to appeal. c) the current para. 2 becomes para. 3. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52, para. The second sentence is replaced by the following: 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 3 the words "In 6 months' are replaced by "For a period of time'. 5. In Chapter 4, Section III is created art. 62a: "Taxi" Art. 62a. (1) The enforcement cases initiated by a bank in bankruptcy shall not be collected in advance proportionate state fees or proportionate fees under the Tariff for Fees and Costs under the Private Judicial Contractor Act. In these cases, the proportional fee cannot be more than BGN 30 000. (2) For forced withdrawal and surrender in favour of a bank in bankruptcy of pledged property under the Law on Special Bets, the proportional fee may not be more than BGN 30 000. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64, para. 1 sentence first the words 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 66, para. 5 in the text before t. 1 the word "s' is replaced by "seven-day'. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market 9. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 7. "7." The payment system TARGET 2BNB is a national system component of the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross settlement Express Transfer System, with a BNB operator, which is built in accordance with the European Central Bank's TARGET2 Guidelines.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u191	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 5 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u192	Proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 6: ........................................................... The provisions of this Act shall also apply to insolvency proceedings of banks opened until its entry into force. In these cases, the six-month period for disclosure of the information under art. 62, para. 12, t. 1, 2, 3 and 4 and the time limits referred to in art. 62, para. 15 shall begin from the date of entry into force of this law, and the 6 months period for disclosure of the information under art. 62, para. 12, t. 5 and 6 shall start from the date of the submission of the information under art. 62, para. 15, p. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u193	Statements? I won't. We vote § 6. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u194	Proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 7 and 8: .................................................... The Law on Government Debt (prom., SG...) makes the following additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 is created. 6: On termination by the Bulgarian National Bank of the participation of a participant in the systems under para. 1, t. 2 and 3, The Bulgarian National Bank shall formally transfer the government securities held by this participant and all its clients to another participant-sub-depositor of government securities, in order and manner defined in the regulation under art. 36, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: The decree by sentence first lays down the additional terms and arrangements for establishing a special bet under the Law on special bets on government securities, including the special bet under art. 152, para. 2 of the Public Finance Act. § 8. In the Law on Special Bets (prom., SG No.) in art. Paragraph 18 is created. 4. The same shall be blocked on the register referred to in Article 4 (4) upon a bet of a government security. 35, para. 1, t. 2 or the relevant registers under para. 4 of the State Debt Act, and when it is transferred between the registers, the action of the bet and the entered circumstances of the bet shall be maintained. The order as well as the additional requirements for the establishment of a pledge on a government security shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 36, para. 1 of the State Debt Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u195	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u196	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. This is actually the last paragraph of the bill with which we will conclude the vote. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have made very serious changes between the two readings, which I hope will really give as a result what society expects of us, really understand where the money from KTB went. I also take this opportunity to congratulate all my fellow Members who have made very good proposals between the two readings, as well as the Chairs of the Temporary Commission and the Budget and Finance Committee for the adequate editorials that have been given. I really hope that this results in what we're talking about. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] We in the Reformation bloc have made a lot of efforts on the path of parliamentary control to clarify where the state money has gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u197	Mr. Slavov, they're giving me a sign from the auditorium that you're not speaking in the specifics of the paragraph. We're at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u198	Yes, I'm finishing up, Madam President, although such lines from the beginning, I think they're unacceptable. You usually sanction them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u199	Next time, that's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u200	I'd like to congratulate all my colleagues. I hope we can find out where the money went, and from then on, the competent authorities will find it and return it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u201	Thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 7 and 8 on the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAWS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. There are nine bills: two bills by Mr. Volen Siderov and a group of MPs; the third bill is by Mr. Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs; two bills by the Council of Ministers; a draft by Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs; a draft by Petar Slavov; a draft by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs and a draft by Methodie Andreev and a group of MPs. I recall that the first six debates were opened, which means that the reports were provided to the plenary's attention, as was given the opportunity for importers to present their draft laws. We are now about to hear the reports on the new three bills, which are united jointly in this point.. Report of the Committee on Legal Issues on the Drafts submitted by the Council of Ministers, Mr. Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs and Mr. Metodi Andreev. The report of the Legal Committee on the three bills will present to us Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will introduce you ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code No 502-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2015 and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 554-01-75, submitted by Valeri Simeonov Simeonov and a group of MPs on 8 April 2015. At its meeting held on 22 April 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft laws. The meeting was attended by Mr. Petko Petkov, Deputy Minister of Justice. On behalf of the importers, the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code submitted by the Council of Ministers was presented by Mr. Petko Petkov. The UN Security Council Resolution 2178 of 24 September 2014 on the threats to international peace and international security caused by terrorist acts aims to be introduced by the Bill. In order to ensure a more complete criminal law protection against terrorism, it is proposed to be included in the composition of art. 108a, para. 1 of the Code of Penalty of Those Computer Crimes That Become Cyberterrorist. With the proposal to create a new para. 4 of art. 108a of the Penal Code aims to criminalise participation in training as an educator, while in para. 5 A voluntary refusal of the student shall be proposed. With the proposed para. 6 and 7 of art. 108a of the Criminal Code aims to introduce the requirements of Resolution 2178 on engaging in the responsibility of the person who has agreed to be trained in a terrorist organisation and the proposed differentiation in the criminal groups depends on whether the subject of the crime is a Bulgarian citizen or a foreigner. With the proposed provision of para. 2 of art. 110 of the Penal Code is regulated responsibility for prior criminal activity for international crimes, which opens the way to terrorist activity. With the proposed addition to the composition of art. 164 of the Criminal Code aims at overcoming incompleteness in the framework which introduced Council Framework Decision 2008/913/JHA of 28 November 2008 on combating certain forms and manifestations of racism and xenophobia through criminal law in 2009. On behalf of the importers, the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 554-01-75, submitted by Valeri Simeonov Simeonov and a group of MPs, was presented by Mr. Christian Mitev. He pointed out that the Bill aims to create real and effective guarantees for the protection of political rights in elections, with a view to offering an increase of sanctions for some of the main typical crimes and validating the use of the official language in the Republic of Bulgaria in the conduct of the election campaign. Mr. Mitev justified the proposals to increase the sanctions under art. 167, para. Art. 2, Art. 168a, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 169 of the Penal Code with the disproportionateness of the currently envisaged penalties, given the high level of public danger of the relevant crimes. The proposal for the introduction of criminal liability for violation of the rule of election campaigning was argued only in Bulgarian with the inefficiency of administrative and criminal responsibility. People's representatives Filip Popov, Cetin Kazak, Dimitar Delchev, Svilen Ivanov and Danail Kirilov took part in the discussion of the bills. They united around the need for the adoption of the amendments and additions of the Penal Code proposed by the Council of Ministers and noted their doubts about compliance with the constitutional provisions of the proposed by Mr. Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs criminalising the use of mother tongue in election campaigning, as well as its proportionality, given the lack of a sufficiently high degree of public danger. Following a vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs shall: - with 15 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 502-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2015; - with 2 votes for the Council, 5 votes against the Criminal Code, No 554-01-75, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 8 April 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u203	Summary of the second report, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u204	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 554-01-87, submitted by Metodi Borisov Andreev and a group of MPs on 8 May 2015. The bill provides for the suspension of the statute of limitations for prosecution and the execution of punishment in respect of serious crimes against human rights committed after 9 September 1944 by the leading activists of the Bulgarian Communist Party or by third parties entrusted with official or party functions. The crimes referred to in the Bill were incriminated at the time of their execution. In this regard, no new criminal groups are introduced with the bill, but only aims at dropping the statute of limitations for these crimes. In view of the high level of public danger of the acts concerned, the limitation on terrorism is envisaged; for crimes committed on a radical religious basis as well as for other serious crimes. It is envisaged that a statute of limitations will not run during the period during which the perpetrator of the crime is hiding from justice or enjoying immunity. The Bill introduces definitions of the new concepts that are adopted in it. Mrs. Lilyana Drumeva, Chairman of the Union of Communist Repressed by Communism, Mr. Alexander Alexandrov, Secretary of the Union of Repressed by Communism, Mr. Nedelcho Ilinchev, Member of the Union of Repressed by Communism and Mr. Sezgin Mumyun, Chairman of the Federation of Justice, Bulgaria. Following a vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs shall: - with 11 votes in favour, without the opposition and 3 votes in abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to support the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 554-01-87, submitted by Metodi Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u206	Thank you, Madam President. My coming out of the stands today is made by asking you to order yourself or to make sure that there is also an importer from the Council of Ministers present here. I believe that this should be the Minister of Justice. Before lunch, we adopted the Energy Act. Minister Petkova was here, defending the Law. A few days ago in the same way the Insurance Act, Minister Moskov was here. Minister Hristo Ivanov, unknown why he is absent, and this is not right. On several occasions at the chairman's council you have personally paid attention that it is appropriate that the importers are here to protect their bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u207	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. This applies both to the initiatives of the Council of Ministers with regard to the Minister of Justice and to fellow Members of the National Assembly. Please do what is necessary and invite Minister Ivanov to enter the hall as soon as possible. With the report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, Mrs. Alexieva will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u208	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 554-01-75, submitted by Valeri Simeonov Simeonov and a group of MPs on 8 April 2015. At a meeting held on 4 June 2015, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 554-01-75, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 8 April 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Alexander Stefanov, State Expert at the Ministry of Justice and representatives of NGOs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u209	You're reading a summary of the report. Who was there in the report and he's going into the transcript. Basically, debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u210	Mr. Alexander Stefanov presented the opinion of the Ministry of Justice on the bill. In the debates held, support was expressed for the ministry's opinion. Some MPs said the issue of buying votes is very serious and it is necessary to consider increasing sanctions. The opinion was shared that in terms of mother tongue sanctions are sufficient and the proposals will deliberately create additional conditions for opposition in Bulgarian society. The majority of the members of the Commission have expressed an opinion that there is no problem with the laws but with law enforcement. Following the debates held and the opinions expressed on the Bill, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights with 0 votes................................................................................ and 8 votes..................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Alexieva. We're about to hear from the importers. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov, for the Bill of Mr. Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u212	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, the Bill, which tabled the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front, follows a single philosophy. This is the philosophy to give a clear and firm answer to crimes related to electoral legislation. There will hardly be a people's representative here who does not agree that in recent years we are constantly witnessing vicious practices, and this is the softest way in which I can express myself related to holding the elections, such as buying votes, manipulations of media related to newsletters, something that has given an extremely broad public response, to falsifying votes, breaking the secret of voting. After all, the legislative framework provided for now in the Penal Code actually provides for penalties which, to put it mildly, are cosmetic, that is to say, do not correspond to the severity of the crime. This shows serious pressure and influence on the political will of every Bulgarian citizen. It is for this reason that the Patriot Front introduced a Draft Law, whose philosophy is for a serious increase in sanctions, first of all related to the purchase of votes, a serious increase in sanctions, when members of an electoral commission fake election results when ballots are stored in an unacceptable manner and then naturally it is allowed to be used for another form of manipulation of society. So I believe that there is hardly a Member of Parliament here in this House who does not support this philosophy and does not stand on the side of justice, on the side of finally creating conditions for the elections to take place normally and to show that the state has an adequate response with adequate penalties for people who violate the electoral legislation. Therefore, I call on you today, colleagues, to support the bill submitted by Mr. Valeri Simeonov in the first vote because it is a good bill. He responds to the public desire and, at the same time, enables the political forces together to respond to this public desire in Bulgaria, and the people who commit crimes related to the electoral legislation to finally bear the appropriate sanction. That is what I would like to say to you, and I hope, at last, that common sense in plenary will prevail and that we will support this bill in the first vote, and then together, if there are any imperfections, we will smooth it out, we will clear it out in the second vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u213	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. A procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Petar Petkov, who is on his way here. Voting regime regarding Mr. Haytov's proposal. Vote 76 MPs: 58, Against 15, abstention 3. The proposal is not accepted......................................................................................................... On behalf of the importers under the Law of Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs, the law is clear. Are you going to introduce him, Mr. Slavov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u214	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, as a co-worker of this bill, I will present it briefly. What my colleague Metodi Andreev, together with colleagues from different parliamentary groups, has imported, is a product that is working in several parliaments, as I understand it, until it acquires this species at the moment and is fit to be imported. A very serious job has been done there, he is also consulted, as far as I know, with leading lawyers, penalists, so that he can be brought into plenary. It concerns in practice the clarification and extension of the hypotheses of this crime against humanity and the possibility of limitation. The limitation, as you know, is excluded, it does not run, and there is no limit to such crimes committed against peace and humanity being prosecuted over time. This arrangement has been refined quite seriously, including crimes committed during the years of the communist regime, including by the activists of the then ruling Communist Party, crimes against various groups of Bulgarian society, including the revival process in which this violent change of names was carried out, as well as a number of other similar acts related then to the draining of state property, translation by foreign companies and then we know how they went overnight in private hands and so on. The additional provisions of the Law provide for a limitation period not to apply to persons enjoying immunity or to persons hiding from prosecution in order to be able to actually impose the fair criminal repression of the State for a criminal offence. What I'm finishing with is actually that the Bill is practically also dealing with crimes declared under the Penal Code of Crime at the time of their execution and at the present time, that is, there is no unacceptable extension of its scope. So this thing is consistent, too. Of course, I appeal for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u215	I'm opening the debate on the nine bills. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate to give an application, a sign of this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u216	I won't. I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u217	I understand that there are no MPs willing to participate in the debate. Question three: there is or there isn't? There aren't any. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs from 27 October 2014. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, with this noise in the room, it is not clear to me whether you hear what is put to the vote. We are voting the first of the nine draft laws of Mr. Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. They voted 114 MPs: 18, against 74, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the second Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. They voted 111 MPs: 10, against 76, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code with importers Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. They voted 116 MPs: for 75, against 26, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. I hereby put to the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code with an importer of the Council of Ministers of 9 December 2014. Vote 113 MPs: 105, against 5, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code with importers Tsacheva and a group of MPs from 19 December 2014. They voted 120 MPs: 114, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code with importer Petar Slavov. Vote 120 MPs: 107 against 1, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code of Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. They voted 119 MPs: 28 against 30, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u218	Thank you, Madam President. I want a re-vote and I turn once again to colleagues from GERB. Colleagues, are you for the crimes of electoral legislation, for buying votes? I wonder how on such important bills you suddenly somehow forget that this is a promise you made to your constituents?! You just voted on a DPS bill that brought you back to the years 30 years ago and you didn't have any problem, and what concerns future and fair elections, you suddenly forget! I ask you to reconsider your behavior and support the Patriot Front bill. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u219	Colleagues, re-vote. They voted 99 MPs: 35 against 25, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u220	Thank you, Madam President. Because there were no debates...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u221	I've invited you three times to debate, Mr. Kazak. You should have been debating.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u222	This bill, which the speaker tried to deceive the MPs here, contains a dark-headed provision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u223	Explain why you voted against, Mr. Kazak, without giving qualifications to the proposals under the laws. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u224	How can I give reason why I voted against it without giving qualification to the provision proposed?! Naturally, because it contains a dark-headed provision, anti-European, anti-constitutional. Shame and disgrace for all MPs from the Reformation Bloc and GERB who supported it. Luckily, there aren't many of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u225	I put to the vote the Draft Law of the Council of Ministers for amendment and supplement of the Penal Code of 7 April 2015. We vote. Vote 112 MPs: for 107, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. And the latest Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code is with importers Metodi Andreyev and a group of MPs. We vote. Vote 107 MPs: 88 against 14, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. For a negative vote, please. [[Noise, lines, MPs coming out of the room.]] Colleagues, this meeting isn't over! The bell didn't ring!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u226	Thank you, Madam President. I'm doing a negative vote on this bill. First of all, it is a bill in the Penal Code, which, however, does not have any legal argument, no legal logic. I don't find one in this bill. Secondly, this bill has the opposite effect. It is unacceptable in the Penal Code in such a way that non-juridistically, without any legal logic to allow retroactive action. In addition, this bill introduces a division in Bulgarian society because this bill is frankly against certain political parties, former political parties. According to the same logic, a bill should also be introduced in the Penal Code, which condemns the crimes, for example, committed by the government of Ivan Kostov in connection with the so-called and known in our society, which was frankly criminal. For these reasons and many more, which I see that this House may be impatient to hear, I voted against. I believe that this is humiliating for the Bulgarian Parliament, for modern Bulgaria, which is part of the European Union where we live for democracy, we cannot vote for such bills, which frankly have nothing democratic and, I repeat, nothing legal in them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-25.u227	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Communication for Parliamentary Control on 26 June 2015, 11:00 p.m., Friday. The first will be the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev to answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Penkov Ivanov. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer two questions from the MPs Yavor Notev, and Ahmed Ahmedov. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer five questions from the MPs Volen Siderov, Atanas Zafirov, Ivan V. Ivanov and Dimitar Dubov, Ilian Todorov, and Atanas Merdjanov. Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov will answer three questions from the MPs Miglena Alexandrova, Rumen Yonchev, and Stanislav Stanilov. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer 12 questions from the MPs: Mihail Mikov, Slavi Binev, Rumen Yonchev, Georgi Gokov, Georgi Kovachev, Ahmed Ahmedov, Hasan Ademov, Petar Kadiev, Zhelyo Boychev, Filip Popov, and Dora Yankova two questions, and one question from the MP Manol Genov. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer two questions from the MPs Borislav Iglev, and a common question of Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev, as well as one question from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will answer three questions from the MPs Ercan Ebatin, Dzhevdet Chakarov, and Petar Kadiev. The Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will answer ten questions from the MPs: Slavi Binev, Filip Popov, Krasimir Yankov, Kalina Balabanova and Nikolay Alexandrov, Georgi Bozhinov, two questions, Georgi Kadiev, Kancho Filipov, Georgi Gokov, and Borislav Iglev, and one question from the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov and Iskren Veselinov. Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer a question from the MP Vladimir Toshev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues Meglena Kuneva at one request from the National Representative Angel Naydenov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev to two questions with written answer from the MPs Mariana Boyadjieva, and Dimitar Dubov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions from the MPs Velizar Enchev, and Maya Manolova; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to two questions from the MPs Ivan P. Ivanov, Petar Slavov, and three questions with a written answer from the MPs Borislav Iglev, Cornelia Nino, and Christian Mitev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions with written answer from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, and Zhelyo Boychev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 4 and art. 97, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, due to the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - two questions from the National Representative Stefan Kenov to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov; - two questions from the MP Stefan Kenov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova; - a question from the MP Martin Dimitrov to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov; - two questions from the National Representative Maya Manolova to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova; - a question from the MP Vasil Antonov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova; - a request from the National Representative Ivan Stankov to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva; - five questions from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov to the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev, the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin, the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva, two questions, and the Minister of Health Petar Moskov, one question. Due to a prior commitment to the parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova and Justice Minister Hristo Ivanov will not participate. Due to a prior commitment with international participation in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva and the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov and the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will not participate. Due to the use of leave, the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Tomorrow's regular plenary session, legislative part with starting time 9:00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
