ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear Members of Parliament, I offer to your attention the following Programme for this plenary week. Today is the first plenary Wednesday in November, which is why the programme is made in accordance with art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. on a proposal from the parliamentary groups in line with the corresponding rotation for this month. First this month are the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. They proposed the first vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons with Importers Lutvi Mestan and a group of Members of Parliament on 29 January 2015. Next is the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block, which proposes a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. Importers are Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs. Third is the Group of the Patriotic Front with a proposal "first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on guaranteed claims of employees in the event of the employer's bankruptcy. Importers are Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. There is no proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. The proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka is the fourth point respectively: A project for a decision to prevent immigrants from the Middle East and North Africa, including refugees from the Syrian Arab Republic on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers are Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. There are no proposals from the parliamentary group of ABB and GERB. There is a proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, which are the last in the rotation this month. They propose a first vote on a Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers are Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. The rest of the program as a point: 6. Projects for decisions on the demands of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of 12 October 2015 to give permissions to excite criminal prosecutions against Volen Nikolov Siderov and Desislav Slavov Chukolov, MPs in the Forty-third National Assembly. Importer is the Temporary Commission on the Demands of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Temporary Commission report of 29 October 2015, together with its draft decisions. 7. Draft Decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Importers are Krasimir Velchev, Borislav Veliev, Miho Mihov and Valeri Simeonov. 8. New discussion of the Military Intelligence Act adopted by the National Assembly on 1 October 2015 and returned for a new discussion with Decree No 197 of 14 October 2015 of the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 9. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 10. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 11. First vote on the Bill for the adoption of a Declaration under art. 287, para. 1 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the Recognition of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 12. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 13. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Floor Property Management. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 14. First vote on the bill on industrial property representatives. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 15. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is the blitz control scheduled for today, Wednesday, 4 November 2015, at 12:00. 16. The usual parliamentary control under art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly on Friday at 11:00 p.m. Please vote. Vote 181 MPs: 152, against 8, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Proposals for inclusion of items on the agenda in accordance with art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first proposal at the time is from Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria is proposing to include this week's first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on personal income tax with importers Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. We're listening, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you have heard our proposal. It is not only justified because of the forthcoming discussion of changes in tax legislation, but together it is necessary to be included in the weekly programme. You propose amendments to the Corporate Tax Act, but this bill also provides for amendments to other tax laws, including that of individuals' incomes. This is an approach that does not comply with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts, because these changes have no bearing on the proposed changes in corporate taxation. But this is already a fact that aims to simplify the discussion on tax changes. Therefore, in accordance with the requirements of the Rules of Procedure, the bills that affect the same matter must be discussed at the same time. The fact that they have different titles should not mislead you because under the sign of corporate taxation changes to different tax laws will be discussed. For this reason, I expect you to support our proposal to become part of the ninth item proposed in the weekly programme and all these issues to be discussed. Otherwise, this would mean a refusal before the budget is examined You will divert the bills that BSP left Bulgaria and has proposed for changes in tax legislation, tax policy. Therefore, Madam President, I expect the majority and all MPs to comply with these arguments. If they are not accepted, I believe that even you should make this addition to the weekly program. Therefore, I call on you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u3	Voting regime, fellow Members. Vote 168 MPs: 78 against 55, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u4	Thank you for having largely taken into account the arguments of the Members of the National Assembly. I also ask the others to revise their vote because this authoritarian approach, which is being proposed, makes the role of parliament meaningless. Once again, the proposal needs to be supported in order to discuss any changes affecting tax legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u5	It's a re-vote. They voted 171 MPs: for 78, against 59, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is Mr. Chetin Kazak, who proposes to include in the weekly programme a bill for amendment and supplement of the Election Code, No 554-01-140, submitted by Mr. Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. We're listening, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, after the local elections that have passed, I believe that there is no member of parliament left who is not convinced of the shortcomings contained in the Election Code and, above all, those related to the so-called................................................................................... The fact that for the first time in the democratic history of Bulgaria received such a large number of invalid ballots over 460 thousand should eloquently tell you what damage you have caused to the electoral process, on the most important instrument of democracy called elections, so-called preferential voting and the low threshold contained in the Election Code. It was not for a reason that we insisted, before the local elections, that in the past months, weeks, the issue of preferences, with the low threshold, be urgently reviewed in order to avoid such paradoxical situations. In this bill we also proposed to raise the threshold for elections in settlements from 100 to 350 inhabitants. You have seen what paradoxes have been obtained even in a village where elections are to be held for mayor, there is not a single candidate because there were no more than 10 people living there. Therefore, led by the care that no longer be allowed and paraphrased by a famous maxim: better late than later, even later, I suggest that you really now, while the memories of these local elections are fresh, we really get to the solution of at least the most obvious, the most drastic shortcomings of the Election Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u7	Voting regime, fellow Members. They voted 175 MPs: for 30, against 51, abstention 94. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is by Mr. Mihail Mikov, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. He proposes that the first vote of the Bill on Supplement to the Value Added Tax Act should be included as a point in the weekly programme, with importers Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. We're listening, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u8	Thank you, Madam President. The proposal made relates to a reduction in value added tax for children's foods, transitional foods, aids for children and disabled people. Unlike cops, mothers with kids don't go out to block intersections. At the same time, the budget for next year is frozen with two and more children, child care benefits from one to two years of age and the monthly supplement for children with disabilities, a very large group, which in today's conditions lives very hard in misery, which is increasingly validated by government policy. In this sense, such a decision is essential. I consider it cynical to these people the attempt of the National Assembly's leadership to make sure that the Law in plenary is not seen with a trick such as the government tabled amendments to tax legislation, through only one law, the Law on Corporate Income Tax. This is very scandalous, and I believe that plenary should stop it. If we don't stop him, we should call on the street to start stopping such dominating exercises already. Therefore, honourable Members, I suggest that you support the inclusion on the agenda of our Bill amending the Value Added Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u9	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Colleagues, we are voting on this proposal. They voted 171 MPs: for 75, against 59, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. Revoting, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u10	Thank you, Madam President! Dear MPs, I ask for a more active participation and attitude towards raising children, attitude towards the miserable children of Bulgaria, who are about 50% from poor families. This policy cannot build the future of the country. You've won the election, now from this position you must do something for the country. These children can't be killed by government policy and today's majority, because I'm still telling you that what you're doing is outrageous. Finally, you can't escape the discussion. If it doesn't take place here, it'll take place on the street. [[GERB noise and lines]] ..as with the police. By hiding from them and not having a discussion, he's moving out on the street. This is how it will be with both mothers and children and parents and people with disabilities. The discussion will be held on the street! Therefore, allow the Law to be discussed inside the National Assembly and not on the street. It's not good for Bulgaria, it's not good for democracy, it's not good for you, and it's not good for the winners of the last elections. Thank you. Please support the law. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u11	It's a re-vote. They voted 173 MPs: for 86, against 57, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. [[(Sighs:.) Noise and lines.)]] It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u12	Madam President, I have addressed you and I think this is related to the way you conduct yourself. Since the proposals are not accepted, I think that you are obliged to include, together with the proposals, a bill for a change in the Law on Corporate Taxation, the two Bills on Individual Tax and the amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax. One law amends several tax rules and they apply in different laws. So don't offer us these tricks and be correct to offer professionally in item. 9 The changes we want to discuss are both for progressive taxation and for the tax relief of the people who raise children. I'm asking you to do what we're pleading for. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u13	Mr. Stoilov, I believe that the President cannot single-handedly oppose the collective decision of the plenary... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB. Crashing banks.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u14	... Because we need to discuss these issues. How are they going to be discussed when...?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u15	They were put here for a vote and the House ruled. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] The next proposal is based on art. 50, para. 3... [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] The way you run it, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure in the manner of conduct relates rather to explaining to you a technology that is not a tradition in the Bulgarian Parliament. You have the right to refuse the inclusion of the tax laws in question, because they are not under the specific bill that we will be dealing with, namely the Corporate Income Tax Bill. However, in the Bulgarian Parliament 25 years is a tradition that the tax campaign before the budget, tax laws should be dealt with each one individually.................................................................................... [[Applause from BSP LB. Noise and lines.]] Now here is the beginning of a new tradition with a single tax law changing all with transitional and final. [[Heckling]] For this reason, the laws tabled by the opposition and other MPs to amend and supplement tax laws cannot be dealt with. In the context of this procedure, I would like to ask you: if by this Law the Ministry of Finance had divided it, as is right, into four bills, would you also be obliged to include those who were submitted for simultaneous consideration by other MPs?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u17	Mr. Tsonev, I will refer to the Minister's Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Corporate Income Tax Act. [[(Voices from BSP LB:]] If there are proposals for amendments to the Law that is being proposed today, tomorrow morning at your attention before the start of the meeting for the day, I will make the relevant proposals. Proposal of the National Representative Hussain Hafuzov on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Child Protection submitted by Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! The bill is related to the proposal to provide an opportunity, I repeat, not to have to, but to enable children in kindergarten and at school age to eat a menu and food that is consistent with their religious confessions. This proposal is dictated by the request, the desire and the insistence of many parents, children who at the same time want the school to provide the opportunity to choose their food according to their religious understandings. Of course, in the modern world we must mourn, we must spare, we must serve the children's interest. If children have rights and they have religious rights, we must comply with their request. This will, of course, give an opportunity, but it will not impose on anyone any religious understanding. More than that. As far as I know, there are thousands and tens of thousands of parents who do not agree with the diet offered in kindergartens or schools and children do not benefit, they do not have the opportunity to eat the food they are offered. This Bill will enable children and parents of all religions, Jews and Christians respectively, and Muslims to practice their religion not only at home, or anywhere outside school, but also at school. Because imagine what a split personality occurs when children are brought up at home in one way, that a food is therefore not desired or not allowed by the religion concerned, but at school they are coerced, they are obliged to eat this food, or they will not eat any food, or they will be equal and given any opportunity. Very often we, both politicians and citizens, say that we have nothing against religion, religious experiences, religious confessions, but we are against... [[Noise and lines. The President gives a signal that the time has expired.]] I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u19	Thank you, the weather. This is what you will develop in essence if the item enters the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u21	I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 159 MPs: 33, against 65, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. Revoting, Mr. Hafuzov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u22	Dear colleagues, I believe that 33 votes are not enough for Bulgarian democracy. I suppose that all of you who very often say: "We are not against religion, against religious people, but we are against extreme confessions, against fanaticism and radicalism, we must prove this today by our vote. We must at least allow ourselves to discuss this subject, because it currently exists in the public domain, and we must state our arguments and motives. Accordingly, a religious person may have the opportunity to consume or not consume one food is a purely religious feeling, pure religious confession. Why are we limiting people when this is not an extreme form of radicalism? This must be an opportunity for all citizens and everyone to choose, respectively, both children and their parents... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u23	You're making a point here, colleague. You have a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u24	For this reason, I call on you: let us give this opportunity. This will be a strong signal to all religious people that we really think about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u25	It's a re-vote. Vote 160 MPs: 36, against 72, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is by Mr. Tuncher Kardzhaliev, which proposes on behalf of the group of DPS Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, No 554-01-3, submitted by Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs on 14 January 2015. We're listening, Mr. Kardjaliev. [[Reply.]] It's not the same law, it's two different laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has two proposals concerning the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. Both proposals have been made since January, i.e. in the form of two bills amending and supplementing this Law. We propose to extend the scope of the bill. The law has been adopted since 1991 and played a very important role in the depreciation of repressed individuals from 9 September 1944 to today. The bill we are proposing under para. 3, includes two groups of people, two sections and I think it will be one of the last adjustments to this Law, because time is relentless, the natural processes will make the bill meaningless after a while, namely to be considered, and the possibility of including a supplement to pensions of two groups of people who have been missed out on those who have been repressed in connection with the violent change of names and a certain small category of pedagogists who have also experienced these processes on the basis of repression in such a vulnerable way. I suggest that we review and review the two laws together. 8, and the other one by para. 3 of art. 50. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u27	We vote. They voted 161 MPs: 47, Against 41, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a re-vote, because on the basis of two points, we can end this bill. There is another hypothesis which has been debated more than once by the National Assembly's stand. Madam President, provided that there are two bills concerning the same law, perhaps it is appropriate not even by para. 3 a para. Article 8 50 to examine both projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u29	This is what I expected from your group, not to divide them into two procedures, but you said so yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u30	Well, if there is no acceptance on the agenda as a separate item, perhaps this option is more appropriate. You're the chairman, and you'll decide. I remember there were bills that weren't adopted that way. That is why we have proposed to consider them in two separate points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u31	Revoting, coworkers. Vote 162 MPs: 46 against 67, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. And the final offer by the order of art. 50, para. 3 belongs to Mr. Stanislav Anastasov of the DPS Group, who proposes the inclusion of the Draft Law for Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, No 554-01-141, submitted by Mr. Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. I am explaining: this is a bill other than the one presented to you by Mr. Chetin Kazak. The DPS has two Bills under the Election Code. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u32	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The proposal made is very brief and it provides that in cases where the election campaign is conducted in another language, translation will be provided in Bulgarian. The bill aims to arrange not only important public relations, but also to respond to the numerous recommendations of OSCE observers, PACE, the Council of Europe, related to the election and use of the mother tongue. At the moment, contrary to the Copenhagen document, minorities are not equal in the election campaign, especially in a language aspect, as they cannot campaign and cannot, above all, inform themselves in their mother tongue or at least be provided with translation. We've talked a lot about this from the DPS. The current bill is in a relatively soft form. I will quote only one brief conclusion from the European Commission in response to ALDE: The choices can only be free when freedom of expression is guaranteed. Moreover, fellow Members, this bill also provides for the possibility that European citizens of Member States of the European Union will also be equal candidates because they are currently discriminated against. Let us imagine a situation that, for example, in the next European elections, the President of the EPP, Mr Joseph Dol, honours GERB to lead their list of members of the European Parliament. In this case, he should be sanctioned for not speaking a good Bulgarian language or anything. Therefore, I call on you to support this Bill and to bring not only the Constitution into effect, ensuring equality of Bulgarian citizens, but also to show this tolerance that suits us as members of the European Union and other citizens of the Member States.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u33	The proposal was developed by Mr. Anastasov, a vote follows. They voted 152 MPs: for 31, against 64, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. Now you have the floor to re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I call on you to reconsider your position and look at this matter not just in national terms, but in European terms. With the current regulations, we do not simply harm minorities in Bulgaria, but all 27 other Member States of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u35	It's a re-vote. They voted 150 MPs: 33, against 68, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. For the procedure Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I understand from the Conference of Presidents that the Minister of Interior Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova is in London. It was in London at a time when the Bulgarian society, we as MPs, and the employees in its Ministry expect many answers. In recent weeks we have only learned that it protects the staff from the bad Siderov and Chukolov, but at the same time, while in this Jesuit way it protects them, we understand that it has prepared these changes for which the whole Internal Sector is now on its feet. Madam President, until now there have been hearings on para. 3, I propose to you and is already inserted into the case-law, to take advantage of your powers given to you in art. 50, para. 5, namely to initiate a hearing of Mrs. Bachvarova here in this Chamber, according to the procedure of art. 110 of the Rules of Procedure. In this way Mrs. Bachvarova to come here and explain what is really happening in the security sector in Bulgaria. As you know, the challenges to this sector are not Siderov and Chukolov, but hundreds of thousands waiting at the border. The fact that this sector is not organised in any way and when the sector is shaking, the lady is in London, these are just indicators. But she's bound to come here and give us an update on what she's going to do and whether she's going to do it at all. So, Madam President, take advantage of this procedure in the manner of conduct. Here, I'll give you this document, which has already been inserted into the Office. I hope you will take advantage of this and invite Mrs. Bachvarova to this room as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u37	Mr. Chukolov, in connection with today's blitzcontrol, I have informed the members of the Conference of Presidents of the readiness of the Prime Minister and the three Deputy Prime Ministers, with the exception of Mrs. Bachvarova, to attend the current blitzcontrol. By letter No 554-00-666 of 4 November 2015, today, at 9.03 p.m. you actually submitted a request to the Office on the basis of art. 110 of the Staff Regulations to be held a hearing and a proposal for inclusion in the Programme to be made on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. by the President of the National Assembly. This is admissible, however, according to the same Rules, only if the proposal was made on yesterday until 18:00 p.m. Proposals submitted at the beginning of a meeting of the National Assembly today cannot be imported as a point in today's plenary session. Messages of bills received: Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the provision of logistical support for aircraft Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence is the lead. The Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Legal Affairs will also consider it. Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance and all Standing Committees of the National Assembly shall be the lead. Draft budget bill for state social security for 2016. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance will be led by the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft budget bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It will also be watched by the Health Committee. A bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the Southeast European disaster preparedness and prevention initiative signed on 28 November 2013 in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It will also be seen by the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 30 June 2015. Importer is the Council for Electronic Media. It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. On 30 October 2015, a final Audit Report No 0000000115 was received by the Court of Auditors in the National Assembly on an audit of the implementation of the Bank's supervision and effectiveness, carried out by BNB, for the period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014, commissioned by a decision of the National Assembly adopted on 29 April 2015, as amended by Decision of 21 July 2015. By my letter, the report was forwarded to the Budget and Finance Commission. It is provided to all MPs of their e-mails, published on the website of the Court of Auditors and on the Internet. On 2 November 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 November 2015 to 25 November 2015 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 November 2015 to 25 November 2015 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 November 2015 to 25 November 2020. No 539-00-43 was received in the National Assembly a Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 September "October 25 2015 and Protocol No 60 of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee, which is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received two materials from the National Statistical Institute, containing results from statistical research on the business climate in industry, construction, trade and services in October 2015, information about a general index of producer prices in industry and indices at domestic market prices for September 2015. The information and materials are available to the MPs in the National Assembly Library. On 2 and 3 November 2015, by letters, respectively from the Minister of Tourism and the Minister of Health, received final drafts of the programming formats of the budgets of the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Health for 2016. The drafts were presented in connection with the State Budget Bill in the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, submitted to the National Assembly on 30 October 2015. By my resolutions the materials were sent to the Budget and Finance Commission and the respective portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of Parliament. We move on to the agenda with item one: THE LAW OF CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE POLITICAL AND CIVIL REABILITATION OF REQUIRED PERSONS. The importer is Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Chairman, art. 78, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure states: The Standing Committees shall discuss at the same time all draft laws governing the same matter submitted to the National Assembly until the day on which the committee responsible shall begin the discussion. These bills are discussed at the same time by the National Assembly. The text of art. 78, para. 1 is imperative. Even if we assume that we've made a mistake in offering...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u39	It's good to admit it, Mr. Kazak, not just accept it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u40	Okay, we accept the fact that we made a mistake, that we only proposed one of the bills under para. 8, but anyway, our mistake can be corrected by the imperative text of the Rules, which I read to you just now. I really ask you to apply the Rules strictly and to discuss both laws concerning the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, as they govern the same matter and the same law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u41	Dear Members of Parliament, there are indeed two bills to amend and supplement the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. The report of the leading Committee on Religions and Human Rights is common, that is, they are discussed by the Commission of Mr. Velchev, which is why I consider it correct and, on the argument of the text of the Rules, which Mr. Kazak quoted, that we should look at both laws together. The word for the presentation of the report is a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. I don't see Mr. Velchev in the hall. Here you go, Mr. Evgeni Stoev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u42	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, No 554-01-3, submitted by Lutvi Ahmed Mestan and a group of MPs on 14 January 2015 and a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, No 554-01-17, submitted by Lutvi Ahmed Mestan and a group of MPs on 29 January 2015. At a regular meeting held on 12 March 2015, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, No 554-01-3, submitted by Lutvi Ahmed Mestan and a group of MPs on 14 January 2015 and the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, No 554-01-17, submitted by Lutvi Ahmed Mestan and a group of MPs on 29 January 2015. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Nadezhda Genova, Head of Department at the Department of State Expenditures and Mr. Ivan Enicharov, Head of Department at the Department of Legal Affairs; Mrs. Petya Malakova, Head of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. On behalf of the importers, the bills were presented by Mr. Tuncher Kardzhaliev. He said that the first Draft Law, No 554-01-3, would fill one omission in the current Law, which at its adoption and then, regardless of the changes it has undergone, still exists. The bill will restore justice to people who are illegally repressed by proposing in art. 9, p. 1 add the persons referred to in Article. 1, t. 7 Repressed in connection with the forced change of the names of Bulgarian citizens. In this category are persons who have been convicted of opposition to the so-called. It's a rebirth process. These people have been missed and have not taken any one-off compensation until the period during which this opportunity lasts, nor have they added to pensions. With the adoption of this amendment, justice and equality between the repressed will be restored and they will be aligned to all those listed in art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 9, namely the illegally detained in the Ministry of Interior, the illegally detained in prisons and concentration camps, the interned ones, as well as those who tried to escape from Bulgaria. The bill also proposes an addition to the item. 23 in art. 9, which refers to regular graduates for secondary school teachers at the teaching institutes. Those of them who somehow reacted against the so-called ones. A revival process has been forced to leave their work and work in other spheres, or even not to work, and thus have been damaged. The second bill, No 554-01-17, also fills one gap, supplementing the categories of persons considered political and civil rehabilitated under art. 1, t. 7 of the Law - wounded with firearms during rallies or group protests by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. They do not fall within the scope of art. Art. 2 and Art. 2 9 and have received neither one-off compensation nor an addition to their pension. The main objective of the bill is to make official recognition of the fact of repression by the communist regime, carried out for political or other ideological reasons. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy presented their views on the two bills. They argued that in both bills the circle of the persons who are mentioned is very common and goes beyond the subject of the Law "rehabilitation of repressed persons, specifically because of their origin, political beliefs or beliefs. The reasons for the drafts are given concrete examples of victims in the collective development of agriculture, changing the names suffered during the exercise of their right to peaceful protests, but the proposed provisions do not make this clear. It has been noted that there is another problem - the Appendix to this. Article 23 9 of the Law applies only to one group of people with secondary education, which creates prerequisites for making claims by other groups of persons who do not meet the current criterion, namely those who have completed higher or semi-higher education. The proposal to introduce a new category of repressed in art. 1 The persons who are injured with firearms during group protests and peaceful demonstrations by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior are not sufficiently justified. The bill does not define whether the person who was struck by the firearm suffered specific bodily harm. Similarly, the circle of persons who should be entitled to one-off compensation on the basis of the provision of art. 2 and an addition to the pension under art. 9 of the Law. Moreover, according to the proposed change in the provision of art. 3 and the heirs of the deceased persons of this group, who are of a vague number, would be entitled to this compensation. The bills do not comply with the Public Finance Act and the reasons do not contain analysis and financial estimates of the funds needed for the proposed new provisions. In the discussion, opinions were expressed in favour of the statements expressed on the draft laws by the representatives of the ministries. The majority of the members of the Commission stated that they did not support the bill. Opinions were made that the Bulgarian society has given its negative assessment of the so-called. A revival process and we don't have to go back to the past all the time. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights: with 1 vote for...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... with 1 vote for.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u43	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. We will now hear the reports of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, which have been seen at one meeting, but two separate reports have been presented. We're listening, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u44	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, No 554-01-17, submitted by Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 18 March 2015 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons with Importer Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Chetin Kazak. With this bill, importers propose that another category of persons should be added to the current round of persons within the scope of the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. These are the people who suffered gunshot wounds in peaceful protests against repressive government policies of the communist regime. They exercised their fundamental right to peaceful protest, to their legitimate rights and interests. This right was severely violated by the use of illegal force, and the victims had no opportunity to obtain judicial or other protection. They have suffered considerable damage of moral and material nature, as well as physical and mental suffering. These are Bulgarian citizens, who have not been sentenced, have not been deprived of liberty, have not been interned. The importers believe that the Act in force has unjustly missed this small group, which has no legal basis to establish the political repression they have committed and, as a consequence, to grant them compensation. At the same time, importers are convinced that this category of persons corresponds fully to the philosophy of the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. The Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior and the National Insurance Institute. The Ministry of Finance expressed principle support for the Bill based on the thesis that all Bulgarian citizens who exercised their political and civil rights and were repressed by the totalitarian regime authorities are entitled to a decent and fair compensation. This right stems both from internationally recognised human rights principles and from the principles of our democratic and rule of law, which are also established in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Ministry of Justice believes that the draft is in line with the spirit and content of the Law declaring the communist regime in Bulgaria criminal; the Declaration of the 41st National Assembly condemning the revival process; Resolution No 1481 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe condemning totalitarian communist regimes and the Resolution of the European Parliament of 2 April 2005. ??????????????????????????????????? As for the financial aspects of the bill, the opinion of the Ministry of Finance should be taken into account. The opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy stresses that the circle of persons referred to in the Bill is too general. In addition, the Ministry considers that it goes beyond the subject of the Act in force, namely to rehabilitate persons who are repressed specifically because of their origin, political beliefs or religious beliefs. Equally generally, the circle of persons who should be entitled to one-off compensation and to benefits is outlined. The opinion of the Ministry of Finance concerns that the introduction of a new category of repressed persons, namely those injured by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior in connection with peaceful protests and demonstrations, is not sufficiently motivated. On the other hand, according to the Ministry, the very proof of the repression suffered is quite difficult both in terms of documentation and in view of the examination of the facts and circumstances relating to the extent to which the injured person as a result of the firearm by the Ministry of Interior did not contribute to contributing to the damage. This ambiguity will lead to problems in law enforcement with this additional category of persons. Representatives of the Ministry of Interior have made comments similar to those of the other ministries. In addition, they also find that the circumstances under which repression has been carried out are difficult to prove. The reasons of the Bill do not make it clear how individuals will prove how the injury was obtained, at what time it was received, whether it was caused by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and so on. In this direction there is concern as to whether the new norm can be applied in practice, as in all other categories of persons in art. 1 of the Law, these facts are known, easily verifiable and verifiable. The Members of the National Assembly asked additional questions to the representative of the importers of the bill. In the discussion, it was noted that the bill does not come out of the philosophy of the Act in force that the design of importers overlaps with certain facts of life, namely specific protests carried out in different areas of the country, in the heat of which people were injured and killed. They do not fall within the current scope of the law and could be covered. At the same time, as a weakness of the Bill, some inaccurate definitions were outlined, the lack of financial estimates, the lack of the supposed number of recipients of rights and their heirs and so on. Following the end of the discussion and the vote with results: 6 votes for the vote, 4 votes against the vote and 6 votes abstention, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly not to support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, with the importer Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. On the other bill...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u45	Just to remind you, Mr. Ademov, you can present it in summary, as this is not a leading committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u46	♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, No 554-01-3, submitted by Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice. The bill was presented by MP Chetin Kazak. According to the importers, the proposed provisions propose to remove a gap made with regard to a special category of educators, namely children's teachers who have regularly completed their pedagogical education at the teaching institutes, but have special status. These individuals were deprived of their right to exercise their teaching profession, such as repression from the communist regime. If the proposal is accepted, they will be declared politically and civilly rehabilitated, and with that they will be granted rights that all people who have been illegally repressed for their origins, political beliefs or religious beliefs. The Commission received opinions from the relevant ministries. The educational status of educators for which amendments to the Law were proposed was explained in the discussion. These are teaching footage for kindergartens and primary schools that have acquired their qualification under art. Art. 108, Art. 109 of the Law on People's Education adopted in 1948 and repealed in 1991. According to these standards, the preparation of teaching staff for schools is carried out in pedagogical schools and pedagogical departments in secondary schools and in teaching institutes. Pedagogical schools and departments are secondary schools with a two-year course above IX grade. They prepare teaching footage for kindergartens and primary schools. Again, according to the same law, the then institutions for children's teachers and institutions for initial teachers were converted into one-year pedagogical courses where they could have been followed from scratch. Later, in 1950, the teaching institutes became semi-high education institutions with a two-year course above secondary school. This reorganization of the system and others, which took place later, is the reason why the same institutes should be completed by pedagogical staff with secondary special education and semi-high education. In response to questions related to the number of these questions, it became clear that it was a very small number of living people who would benefit from the future changes to the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. In this regard, the financing of their new rights will not be a burden on the state budget. Following the end of the discussion and the vote with results: 6 votes for the vote, 4 votes against the vote and 6 votes abstention, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly not to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, No 554-01-3, submitted by Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. I do not see any report from the Budget and Finance Committee. On behalf of the importers, please come in. You'll argue both laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u48	Yeah, both.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u49	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u50	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons was established in 1991. This is a Law, part of the normalization of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the new contemporary Bulgarian society, which provides fair assessment, moral retribution, but also even a gesture from the state to all individuals who, from 9 September 1944 to 10 November 1989, have suffered repression, unfair and oppressive treatment, violence and even discrimination. This is undoubtedly a useful, democratic law. He played his part. Because of, as I said just now, the relentless natural laws and the transitional human life, it will be of limited action, even I dare say that it is already in a calming state. This Law has been replaced eleven times for its life. Always the reasons to be corrected, edited or supplemented have been missed, for one reason or another, people who have suffered some repression, some form of discrimination and have been supplemented subsequently. The first Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons aims precisely that. There are citizens who do not fall within the scope of art. 2 of the Law and Art. 9 of the Law. Article 2 concerns one-off benefits for such repression and Article 2. 9 A monthly supplement to the pension of retired persons. The first Law concerns a category of people who have suffered gunshot wounds in peaceful protests against repressive government policies of the communist regime. The current Law does not explicitly include this category of persons and therefore they cannot benefit from this, in my opinion, a natural right. Their rehabilitation is not possible on the basis of these existing texts, because there was neither a penal sentence under art. 1 of the Law, neither are they deprived of liberty nor are they interned, and therefore the Law does not allow adequate political repression to be established at present on the basis of which to benefit from all the rights granted to them by the Law. However, this category of persons, in our opinion, meets the general meaning and objectives of the Law. Official recognition of the fact of repression by the regime was made for political or other ideological, religious reasons or for origin. This repression is incompatible with the values and principles of modern democratic society, yet they are wronged, they are discriminated against by the Law. The categories of victims, whose inclusion is proposed, have exercised their fundamental right to peaceful protest in defence of their rights. This right was rude, illegally violated by the communist state with the use of illegal force, and the victims had no opportunity to obtain protection under judicial or any other order of order. Specific facts from such incidents are different. I have before me a faximile of 18 March 1972 related to a case in the village of Barutin, but these incidents shot, wounded by firearms are also a fact in, say, 1947, against the collectiveization of agriculture. The cases with Gorunya, with Slavcho Trunsky, and especially in 1972, 1974, 1985 in connection with the so-called "Renaissance Process." These are incompatible, in our opinion, with democracy incidents, examples of harsh and serious violation of fundamental rights. They are documented with facts and therefore we urge you to support our idea of including them in the headings of art. Art. 2 and Art. 2 9. The other Law concerns two other groups of people, namely missed, in our view, to add these people under art. 1, t. 7, which is entitled that these are repressed in connection with the violent change of the names of Bulgarian citizens. This category are persons who have been convicted of opposing decisions in relation to the revival process. With the adoption of the amendment and the inclusion of this category of people, justice will be restored, equality will be restored between the repressed. Now under art. 9 This article, which concerns the pension supplement, included some repressed and some repressed only receive supplements, namely the illegally detained in the Ministry of Interior, the illegally detained on the island of Belene, the interns, those who have tried to escape from Bulgaria, but those who are convicted of opposition to the revival process cannot benefit because of the failure to comply with the above mentioned conditions. We also propose a third category of people who are missed and who are not very much, namely those sections to be included in children's teachers who have completed regular pedagogical education in teaching institutes, who are of special status, given that they do not have a higher education, and for this reason they are not included in the current rules of the Law, but some of them who have been fired and directed in other areas not of their professional status, too, in our opinion, must be requited. Dear colleagues, this Bill, as I said at the outset, is an expression of a reaction, an expression of a reflex of democratic thinking MPs. They are the function of their voter. Naturally, a bill is created and it becomes a law when there is a signal from society or a public urge to do so. Our ideas are related precisely to filling one such gap on the part of the Bulgarian legislation in the last 20 years. I don't think those people I spelled out are a lot of them. They will be several dozen and the costs, because of which the Finance Minister gave a negative assessment of this Bill, hardly its arguments would be heavy, given the very low financial resources that must be allocated to these people. Moreover, the law on amending and supplementing the law on repressed citizens on a political line will fulfil a moral duty. We tried to propose this Law in addition to our colleagues from the DPS in the previous term, in the previous 40th and first National Assembly, with established Democrats with Lachezar Toshev, with Ivan Ivanov from the SDS, from the DSD, with Jordan Bakalov. Then only time has not reached us and that is why we offer it again to your attention. Thank you. [[Applause from SG to DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u51	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. My fellow Members, I am opening the debates on the two Bills. I remind you that they are at first reading. You can make speeches on both bills in parallel. Here you go. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate on both bills and we're going to vote. I ask the Quaestors, if there are any colleagues in the halls, to invite them to enter the Chamber, as a vote is yet to come. Honourable Members, we are voting for a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, No 554-01-3, tabled by Mr. Mestan and a group of MPs on 14 January 2015. Please, voting mode. They voted 114 MPs: 39, against 31, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Mestan, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! I am using the re-voting procedure to address once again the MPs on the right, opening the clamp here and thanking you for the support of the Reformation bloc. My call is also for colleagues from GERB to reconsider their position on this Bill, because you know very well that it does not have visible fiscal dimensions. It is rather about a debt to people who have actually suffered during the totalitarian regime, and I would not have had an explanation why GERB refrained from supporting this Bill, which has its extremely moral-political value. I hope that the revoting will achieve the natural majority between the right and the centre on such a valuable case. Once again, a call to support the bill. He doesn't have any fiscal dimensions, he only has moral and political dimensions. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u53	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Dear colleagues, re-voting the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. Please vote. They voted 116 MPs: 45, against 29, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u54	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u55	Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u56	Mr President, in my procedure, I note that today, for the third time, a re-voting procedure is already allowed, allowing the MPs who proposed it to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, namely to make a statement instead of asking for the procedure and to speak about it itself. So I suggest to both Mr. Mestan and Hafuzov and Anastasov, who made this violation of the Rules, you make a remark. When there is a revoting procedure, it is clear what it is. It is not a statement on the substance of the bill, but it is in the absence of people who voted and so on. So, when there are such procedures and when it is not justified, simply do not allow them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u57	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Honourable Members, voting regime for the second bill. I would like to say that we have now actually voted on the bill, which was related to No 554-01-3, which was argued by Mr. Kardzhaliev and is related to the special category of pedagogists. We voted him out and he was rejected at first reading. We are now going to vote on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, No 554-01-17, submitted by Mr. Mestan and a group of MPs on 29 January 2015. They voted 112 MPs: 41, against 30, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. Thank you, honourable Members, which brings us to the next item on the agenda: THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S BANK. Importers supplied by Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs from 28 July 2015 I see there have not been any reports on this bill, which I give the importers the floor to argue with. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the bill that we have proposed does not only concern the Bulgarian National Bank and the already notorious unpleasant bonuses, which have been found to have been distributed there under the previous term of the Governing Council, but also concerns many other higher state bodies, which, on the basis of the law, have been created and can determine for themselves the amounts of these additional remunerations, or the so-called "bonuses." In our information there are such authorities, unfortunately, and here I will mention the Commission for Protection of Competition, the Commission for Financial Supervision, the Communications Regulation Commission and so on, but specifically the Commission for Protection of Competition will take as an example. We have information that these additional remunerations were there when they even exceeded basic remuneration, which was spelled imperatively in the Law. This for me personally represents the smallest circumvention of the Law and it is obvious that there must be a ceiling of the possibility of giving such additional remuneration. Moreover, we believe that these additional remunerations should be linked to the results of the work, that is to say, a body, when it has really done its job well, did not commit bankruptcy to a bank, for example, or well regulated the market for financial instruments, on the basis of this and by a written methodology, that it is possible to determine and distribute such additional remuneration at the expense of the taxpayer. However, what we do not accept is this way of circumventing the law, bypassing that in all the constitutional laws of these institutions there is a record of the main remuneration of the President and the members of the governing bodies, and they are usually a percentage of the salary of the President of the National Assembly. And they can go around that and give extra away at times higher wages! What we propose is once the main remuneration is to be linked to a percentage of the salary of the President of the National Assembly, and secondly, when these state bodies have worked well on a well-established public methodology, to be able to disclose and to be able to further distribute such additional remuneration, but not to exceed, in any case, the basic remuneration. I would like to point out to you that a lot is being commented on the salary of the former governor of BNB and the remuneration of the Commission for Protection of Competition. My colleague Martin Dimitrov and I asked such a question to the Commission for Protection of Competition and to BNB under the Public Information Access Act. The KPC didn't even want to answer. Not to refuse to answer us in argument and to say, for example: "We consider this to be personal information, we will not tell you because...... and three MPs refused even an elementary answer on half a page. As a result, we have taken the matter to court, and from that day on, there is a solution with which this refusal has been cancelled. We of the Reformation bloc will continue to fight this battle. There must be publicity and transparency. There must be responsibility and clarity for what, to whom and how much the taxpayer pays. I call on you to support this bill, for you to support it. I had the opportunity to speak informally with colleagues from the Patriotic Front and from GERB. I am under the impression that there is an understanding and this approach to publicity and transparency is shared. That's why I appeal to you for support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u59	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Dear colleagues, I'm opening the debate. He has the word Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we in the Group of the Patriotic Front will support this bill. I appeal to the group of importers to be so good to come together and support their bill, because when you import something and you are five people in the Chamber, at least that is disrespect for yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u61	Mr. Bayraktarov, please get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u62	I'm getting to the point! Don't interrupt me! I will make the same address on the next bill, of which the Reformation Bloc is also a collaborator. I think there shouldn't be a debate on this good law. That's why we'll support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u63	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. There's a word for it, Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The bill we have tabled is extremely important because the independence of a regulator, whether it be the Bulgarian National Bank, whether it be the Financial Supervision Commission or the Commission for Protection of Competition, does not mean that they determine their own salaries. Independence means freedom of decision-making. Currently there is no restriction on BNB, the Governing Council to decide to take 1 million each. lv. a month. There's no limit like that! Therefore, as a parliament, we must put a ceiling on the salaries of all regulators. If we don't do it today, it's only a matter of time before we hear another scandal about the regulator who somehow assigned himself salaries that don't fit the job. In this regard, I would ask you: do regulators have more commitments than the finance minister? Do they have more commitments and jobs than the Prime Minister? Do they have more commitments and work than the President of the National Assembly? Our answer is adamantly not. Just think of how many commitments the finance minister has, how much work he has to do and what responsibility he has! In this situation, we propose a universal criterion for the regulators to receive a basic salary no greater than that of the President of the National Assembly. In the case of a job well done, they should be able to get another salary like this. On these issues, if you support at first reading, between first and second reading we will have another debate if you have additional ideas and suggestions. There's an opportunity for further precision. I pay attention, beyond what my colleague Slavov said, we have been unable to understand the salaries and additional wages received in the BNB for more than six months! As a result of the press conferences and the questions we asked, we receive information per hour per spoon. After all, the BNB did not respond. Listen well to me.. did not answer the question what salaries and additional wages they received for the first six months of 2014. That is, none of us, colleagues, no one in Bulgaria outside the BNB knows these people before the bankruptcy of KTB, including the head of the Banking Supervision, what salary and what additional remuneration they have received! I therefore call on you: colleagues, let us put order in this country! It's high time we put order in this country! If we have any difference in detail, someone wants the remuneration to look different, let us allow the Second Reading Bill and there to make the necessary editorials. But if we keep letting regulators determine their own paychecks, there's gonna be another big fight tomorrow. Then people have the moral right to ask the National Assembly: "Well, why didn't you adopt rules? Why didn't you bring order? For example, your salaries, colleagues, are recorded in the Rules of the National Assembly. Anyone who gets excited knows them. Anyone who is excited about salaries in the National Assembly and the ministers knows them. They're public. Then let's do the same for the regulators. This is not independence. Finding their own paychecks is out of control! Let's introduce ceilings and put order. I rely on your support, colleagues, on each and every one of you! [[Applause from RB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u65	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I won't. Request for a procedure.. Mrs. Kotseva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 80 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly request an extension of the time limit for written proposals by 14 days under the Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 502-01-41, adopted in the Chamber at first reading on 29 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u67	Thank you. A reverse opinion? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mrs Kotseva to extend the deadline. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Any other comments on the submitted bill? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I welcome the initiative of the Reformation Bloc Parliamentary Group to discuss the issue of the legal framework for the remuneration of the members of the Board of the Bulgarian National Bank. Most arguments were given. There is no reason for any of the higher authorities in the state not to be placed, once, under the regulation of the legislative authority for the remuneration and, the second time, in this way, to the necessary publicity, which is due to the Bulgarian citizens. The only question that can be opposed to some extent I do not want to avoid it in the discussion: is it right to determine these levels of remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors, since the remuneration in the commercial banks of the members of their supervisory authorities are in most cases several times higher. Yes, we can't really ignore the interaction of the banking regulator with commercial banks. It should be said, however, that this relationship is of lower significance than the fact that the Bulgarian National Bank is a government regulator. She doesn't deal in commercial banking. If there are willing in the management of the bank to earn so much and unlimited, they must go to the commercial banks and not as it often happens to serve the interests of the commercial banks rather than regulate them and when their mandate ends to go somewhere in order to continue to receive compensation for the services performed. The road is more like the opposite of people from the commercial banks can go to the management of BNB, but it is not very natural from the management of BNB to go immediately to the management of the commercial bank. In all developed systems, this is called a conflict of interest and is often associated with what is called the so-called "insidership', i.e. the export of official information or the operation of specific services outside the scope of the service. It is really strange that in a year when we suffered some of the biggest turmoil in the banking sector, including the bankruptcy of one of the large banks, large additional remuneration would be distributed during the same period. It is correct, without completely eliminating the possibility of additional financial stimulus, to at least make it public. Remember that in the period of the major banking crisis a few years ago in Europe and in the world, such issues were raised. Some regulations have been sought for the criteria and levels of additional incentives or bonuses that can be obtained even in commercial banks, not only in bank regulators. I think that if this bill is supported in principle, the second reading can discuss the criteria of whether to be, as proposed by the importers, or a little to go up in some range. I do not think, for example, that the fact that the Constitutional Court can rule by acts of all other senior state authorities makes its work very busy or difficult, I do not think that the work in the management of the banking sector is easier and less responsible. Permissions may be sought, but they must be in this direction and have a clear comparability with the remuneration of other persons who occupy the highest state positions in the Republic of Bulgaria. I think the adoption of this Bill will depend mainly on the attitude of GERB and DPS. I don't want to make other transfers to this subject. I call on my colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria to unanimously support this proposal. I also appeal to the Members of the National Assembly, who can tilt the scales in the absence of regulation or for the first time to establish the necessary legal framework for the remuneration of the management of the Bank and for the publicity of the additional remuneration. I think that very long discussions are not necessary, and within the procedure we are in, the vote on this issue must be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u69	- What's the line? I can't see. Anybody else want to make a statement? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Imamov, then you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will not support the proposal of my colleagues from the Reformation bloc, not because I am against publicity, but because BNB and its managing bodies are not adequate to compare them to government officials or other governing areas in the state apparatus. First of all, the Bulgarian National Bank is an institution which is supported by itself. It is on its own budget and is in no way dependent on the state budget. It's very important to know. Secondly, the Bulgarian National Bank is operating in one sector, where, you all know, the salaries of all those working in the banking sector, not only of their managing bodies in this banking and financial sector, are significantly above the average salaries of other financiers working in other sectors. You do not think that it is normal for a supervisory authority to exercise not only control over these banks, to give and take away their licenses, to ensure that what is happening in the banks is protected by the interest of the depositors and the clients of these banks, these management bodies take on many times lower salaries than the employees, not the managers working in these banks, the inspectors in these banks?! This is unacceptable to me. If we do this, the BNB will go to work people who can afford to live on such a low salary, i.e. find a way to supplement it or because they do not have the capacity to go to the private or state bank because the state bank also has good salaries on its management and to take this normal salary. What was said by this tribune that there is no wage ceiling is not true. The BNB Act states that there is a wage ceiling, but it is related to the average salary, with the average remuneration throughout the banking sector. Notice, not with the average remuneration of the managing authorities of this banking sector, but of all the management bodies, which reduces the average salary. I think what's being offered seems a little nihilism to me. We have a central bank that has good footage. The fact that one or two have made a breakthrough in the system should not be used by the CCB case and that in the last few years banking supervision, rather the head of banking supervision and its supervisor, namely the manager of the BNB, did not want to do their job, we should destroy the entire BNB and the personnel potential that it has. This is unacceptable to me. First, it will demotivate the management and perhaps very soon we have to re-elect a new guide, second.............................................................................. all management and executive staff down. You know very well that wage levels should also follow a certain hierarchy. Transparency must be there. When we make the changes to the BNB Act, we will record that transparency, although the new leadership of BNB announces its salaries. It also announced the salaries of the old management of the Bank and you also know what they are. Here are the speculations of some of our colleagues who were talking about three-digit numbers, about amounts that are really scandalous, but such amounts have not been received. [[BSP LB.]] There were colleagues who talked about such three-digit numbers from this parliament. [[Reply from the National Representative Aliosman Imamov.]] Yeah, six figures, sorry, three zeros in the back. You're right. Thank you. So at this point, we should not use an untrue statement that has been published for months in the media and has left its tracks, even though it was then disproved by numbers, with evidence. You know, rebuttal isn't so loud, and maybe a lot of you haven't heard it about the real wages. Secondly, let's use the KTB case to destroy BNB's capacity. Because that would be the result if we adopted this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. First line, the People's Representative General. Atanas Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Stoyanova, I'm taking a line on a matter of principle. In accordance with art. 1, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary governance. What I have studied in the past under the law of the state and I have remembered as a beginning that parliamentary governance, in the first place, means general money management in the state. Is the Bulgarian National Bank a state authority? It's a government body! Is she supported by the common money? It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u73	It's not government.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u74	How could it not be a government body? Can you claim such things in the National Assembly? Is it a commercial bank? It is a state body and it is a regulator, and it is supported by the common money. And those we pay in the budget have the right, and we are obliged to point out to the Bulgarian society a mechanism by which those who collect the total money should know how they are spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u75	Thank you, General. Atanasov. Second line: Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u76	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, honourable colleagues from GERB, did Prime Minister Borisov say that no one in the country should take more money from him? Did you say that? And he's right! He said that, and no one in the country should take more money than the Prime Minister. What about the Prime Minister, whoever he is today is Borisov, tomorrow he will be another, is there less responsibility than one regulator? Are you serious about these things? Mrs. Stoyanova, I'm talking about the state, it's about the public sector. We're talking about the public sector. Mrs. Stoyanova, you, in my opinion, have inadvertently misled the Members of the National Assembly. In the BNB Act there is no wage ceiling and it says that the minimum remuneration should not be lower than the average private sector. I mean, in my opinion, you misguided parliament. There's no ceiling! They can even fix a million paychecks. You, colleagues, if you don't support us now, tomorrow there might be something similar somewhere, and then I would ask on behalf of the protesting policemen: "Okay, you let some people take 16-17 thousand. lv. a month, and here you want to cut our social benefits. It sounds very unfair, my fellow Members. It is very unfair for people in one regulator to take more than ministers, more than the finance minister, more than the prime minister, more than all MPs, more than the President of the National Assembly. It's very unfair and unfair! Besides, they don't have a ceiling. If they decide, they can make their own decisions, if we don't set a ceiling today, listen well, listen to me, colleagues from GERB, well, they can put a paycheck of a million and nothing in the law stops them. Nothing's stopping them! Thirdly, the BNB refused, although with colleague Slavov four times we ask them in a different way, four times we ask them to tell us before the bankruptcy of KTB They didn't answer! That's why we're going to court with them and we want the court to give us this information in court. They didn't answer! Colleagues, this text must now be voted in order to have rules and apply to BNB. Finally, there is a Currency Board in Bulgaria. In terms of currency board, a central bank has much less real work. It has no operations on the money market, i.e. BNB does much less work than a bank in which there is no currency board.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u77	The weather, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u78	So I'm asking for your support. [[Applause from RB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u79	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Third line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u80	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, by removing the banishment whether the Prime Minister should take the most money in the country, which I think in this kind of management seems natural to you, but this is another topic, I want to ask you why do we always have some double arsin when we talk about regulatory authorities? Why we are now concerned about the salaries of the Bulgarian National Bank and its management and we raise the issue so that they would be more vulnerable and more motivated to work with lower salaries, and when we once put the same question about the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which concerns much more and much greater responsibilities related to much bigger problems of the ordinary person, you then refused to discuss this issue and said that there is no way that the salary could be measured at corruption or motivation in some state structure. So please, please, reconsider your behavior, take an archine to measure everything, because otherwise you fall into your typical duality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mrs. Stoyanova, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u82	Colleagues, please don't let populism take over! Try to stop, at least occasionally in populist speeches and actions. First of all, the BNB is not a state body.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u83	What do you mean, it's not? Don't be ridiculous!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u84	BNB has a special status, with a special law. Secondly, the BNB is not in the spending part of the state budget. BNB is in the revenue part of the state budget. It brings revenue to the state, does not bear costs like everyone else. Thirdly, the MPs who are here are elected by the people and have another function, and they, Mr. Dimitrov, are taking higher salaries than the Prime Minister. If we compare your ticket to his, you'll see that he's not the salary ceiling, and I... [[(Voices from BSP LB: "Eee! " (Applause, cheering.)]] Yeah, that's right. I will ask the Prime Minister to provide me with this information to compare with the salary of the President and some other Members of the National Assembly. However, here the topic is not the salary of the Prime Minister and the salary of the MPs, the topic is what do we want to do with BNB? We want to decapitalise it, make it an institution where there will be no motivation for qualified personnel to work, because they will be taken over immediately by private banks. Do you know how difficult it is to find staff of Directorates with qualities and experience in this specific sector, which should be attracted by a private bank to BNB? They can't be drawn, ladies and gentlemen, because they're gonna lose their pay. As for what size it is, I want to remind you. This size, Mr. Dimitrov, was announced by the new governor, and then, with the consent of the old governor, the amount of all the gross wages he received was also announced. So this size is clear. Another question is whether there should be a text in the Law that obliges them to disclose this information and not to consider it as personal data, as it is with the MPs or other regulatory authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u85	To speak, Mr. Imamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u86	Madam President, honourable Members, the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank concerns an extremely important problem related to the public pay system. If you make a simple review of the discussions on this topic in the past years, you will see that different solutions have been offered. In this case, we have a proposal to solve this complex and difficult problem in the Bulgarian National Bank, in a private case. Unfortunately, this isn't a private matter. When it comes to the public pay system, it is about the cost of labour in the public sector, we need to be aware of a very important issue. This is the question of the importance of the work in the public sector of the Prime Minister, of the President of the National Assembly, of the President, of all other government officials, who are tens of thousands, various agencies and committees. The specific case of the Bulgarian National Bank does not allow us to make such generalizations. Firstly, because some colleagues mentioned it, the Bulgarian National Bank is an absolutely independent institution, unlike other institutions that are relatively independent. The Bulgarian National Bank does not even have an obligation to send its budget to the National Assembly for approval, acceptance or rejection, but only an obligation to inform the National Assembly about this budget. The Bulgarian National Bank is a donor of the state budget. There have been years when what the Bulgarian National Bank gives to the state budget has saved the deficit and will continue to be a donor. So the first thing that needs to be done to solve this important problem of the importance of public labour in the public sector is to build a clear hierarchic pyramid system of how much the work of everyone employed in this public sector is worth, how much the work of the professor at the state university, the chef at the agency, the chairman of the Commission, is what you are. The issue is not so simple as to solve it from a set of rules that we want to impose on an absolutely independent institution, by the way, which is an integral part of the system of central banks in the European Union, which also have rules regarding the cost of the labour of the employed in this system. We welcome the idea of seeking a solution to regulate the determination of the cost of labour and the public importance of labour in the public sector, but this decision being proposed here is partly, it does not give the basic principles on which to determine salary or wage, or the cost of labour, if you will, to everyone employed in the public sector. There are no such decisions here, so we will refrain from supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u87	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u88	Madam Chairman, Mr. Imamov! I believe that the discussion must continue, but in order for there to be a solution, the bill must be adopted in principle, because if the bill is not adopted, this discussion will be outside the National Assembly and probably in the near future it will not lead to any regulation. In addition, it should be borne in mind that these are no longer your direct claims, but here prominent MPs claim that the Bulgarian National Bank is not a state authority, forgive me, is ignorance. She's a government body. The fact that she is a legal person who, apart from regulatory, even has functions in monetary policy and the credit market, is a second question and no one underestimates the specific, even unique role of the Bulgarian National Bank. As we think we need to step away from Fregmanism when the concept was developed and it stands at the heart of neoliberalism, that central banks should be completely independent. Yes, in terms of monetary policy, I agree, they must not depend in any way on the government or parliament. If we take into account even credit policy, it makes no sense that they are entirely independent because with public money the Central Bank decides which banks to provide money. A number of solutions need to be sought here that require much greater dialogue between the institutions because society pays and not the Central Bank on this issue. This is precisely the complex section, and today anyone who does not run away from it must support the Bill, and from there to attract specialists, to seek solutions... they are probably a little different and should be more flexible, but not by diverting the subject. Deviating the subject is a desire for this black hole to continue and we in the budget will see it, because in those billions, which are both provided for by credit and for assistance, will go back to some banks and then we will find out what was going on, which should not have probably happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u89	Second line? Second line, Mr. Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u90	Thank you, Madam President. I will replicate Mr. Imamov, as I have a definite disagreement. Mr. Imamov, you have not listened to the arguments of the intelligent minority of the majority. The statements were that it was allowed to receive a salary equal to the salary of the President of the National Assembly, in certain cases, even double. What are my arguments that this is something normal, reasonable and should be applied? Firstly, I strongly object to the fact that the head of BNB is much more working than Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, i.e. I do not agree to say that the Prime Minister is lazy and does not work, and I do not cope with his duties. In no way can I agree that the Finance Minister is fulfilling less duties, less responsibilities, solves less problems or in any way his work is much less worthy, responsible or whatever than that of any head of department or director of BNB, because they will receive a lot more salary than he does. In the same way, I do not agree to lower the work of Mrs Tsacheva, she is legally elected President of the National Assembly, has huge commitments. We're going to lower them to the department chief because that's the kind of salary they get at the BNB, it's not right. However, if we agree that all these people are lazy, which I strongly say, I do not agree, personally, to change the Constitution, now is the time for the elected head of BNB to be both President of Parliament, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and why not President. I ask you to reconsider the decision and the legislative initiative made by the reformers to be accepted by the President of the National Assembly in certain cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u91	The third line is Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u92	Dear Mr. Imamov, I'm making a line to you because at the moment we have two options: one option is to let the Management Board continue to fix its own wages without a ceiling, including if they decide to take a million a month, ten million a month, they have the resources, they can do it by looking at it, you and you support it. It's only right that independence doesn't mean there's no wage ceiling. Let's say more than these people can't get, because we have a very unpleasant precedent right now, colleagues. With colleague Slavov, we are currently in a court of law before the Supreme Administrative Court, which is scheduled for December, the BNB refused to give it to us four times, they did not give it to us four times and they say: "We of these MPs, of all the MPs, will not tell us how much the Bulgarian National Bank received before the bankruptcy of KTB as additional fees. If we do not change the Law now, they will continue not to say and will determine whatever additional remuneration they want, because there are no ceilings in the Law. If this is what you want, from now on, you will have full responsibility, colleagues, for all the additional remuneration that these and other people determine themselves. Because, find out if there have been such problems in the past, if they refuse to say what additional rewards and bonuses they have received, it will happen again. So, who wants adjustments, to vote in principle at first reading, and between first and second, if you have other better ideas than ours, we will accept them, if you have other ideas about the wage ceiling, we will accept them, but otherwise, colleagues, so goes the DPS supports the chief of BNB to take 16 thousand. lv. of 16 thousand per month. lv. a month, and he doesn't even put that question under comment. That's what it looks like. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u93	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Imamov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u94	Mr. Dimitrov, I'm going to start with your real attempt to launch the debate, as Mr. Tsonev said. My conclusion of this discussion can be formulated as follows: it is obvious that when it comes to BNB, wages, left and right populism do not differ much from how much they touch the same goals, the same motives. [[(Noise and lines. Communicating: "Source, time!" The map.]] Mr. Chairman, there is a Ruler who forbids calls from the premises. If you want, I'll quote it to you. So make a comment to your colleague. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Dimitrov, in this Bill at the top of the pyramid, as I said, the President of the National Assembly is placed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u95	Mr. Imamov, please place your card normally. Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u96	I'm sorry, I didn't get your note that this was about the map. Why are you putting the President of the National Assembly at the top of this pyramid, why not the President, why not the Prime Minister?! [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, if we put a unit factor in this hierarchy, which appreciates the public importance of the work of everyone employed in the public sector, how much coefficient will you put on the MP to you, Mr. Dimitrov? How much are you going to put on your one committee and they are hundreds of agencies that also need to be regulated in terms of pay? I said, if you really offer an idea to solve this extremely complex issue, which no one has decided so far in Bulgaria, to build such a regulatory payment system, to evaluate labour, we will gladly and gladly support.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u97	Thank you, Mr. Imamov. Any other speeches? Mr. Enchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u98	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I fully support the proposal made by the Reformation bloc for many reasons. One of them is that in February this year, I was the first to raise this topic in parliament for salaries in the Bulgarian National Bank. I fully support the proposed salary of the director, the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, to be a percentage of almost 90% of the remuneration of the President of the National Assembly. I also believe that these colleagues who claim that we should compare salaries in the Bulgarian National Bank are not justified, I stress, a state bank, with salaries in private commercial banks. I ask you very much which logic in private commercial banks, where the average salary, at least that kind of information we have, the manager of the relevant bank is not less than 40,000. BGN, and some banks are even spoken of, not to mention names that some of them take up to 200,000. lv. A month? Surely you can tell from the information we have on private commercial banks that there is no salary lower, I repeat, of 34-40 thousand. lv. By what logic will the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank receive a higher salary than the salary of the President of the National Assembly?! It's a legal issue, but it's also a moral case. Today, when in Bulgaria we all know what the salaries in the state administration are, when Bulgarian policemen on the street with reason resent this decision of the government, we are at all debating, and do we have the right to debate, the right of the governor of BNB to take a cosmic salary? We all know the salary of the old governor of BNB. Here I would like to address my colleagues from the Reformation Bloc and remind them that, together with them, I have submitted to the Supreme Administrative Court a request for disclosure of the salaries of the former governors and of the former Board of Directors of the Bulgarian National Bank. As I found out last week, the solution to this question is set for the month of February next year. You, honourable Members of the Reformation Block, are a little ahead in the rankings, at the end of the year you will be answered. I hope they tell you the whole truth, but from what we have learned from the communication of the new governor of the Bulgarian National Bank Mr. Radev, we understand that they have actually taken much less money than we have announced and what we know. In short, the current Board of Directors of the Bulgarian National Bank refuses to give full remuneration to the former Board of Directors, to the former Chairman of the Board of the Bulgarian National Bank. I ask myself, why is this information hidden and why is not the full information and, above all, the information about the bonuses of the Governing Council and the managers of the Bulgarian National Bank? Once again, I say that I fully support my colleagues from the Reformation bloc and I believe that the National Assembly should support this proposal, as it meets public expectations. It is in today, when I say again, we are discussing salaries or, more precisely, the number one topic in society are the salaries of Bulgarian policemen, we must say: in the Bulgarian National Bank the salary cannot be higher, in any case in this bank, than the salary of the President of the National Assembly, in this case Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva. Otherwise, we will be at odds with public expectations, and we know very well what public expectations are, we know very well what the rating of the National Assembly and the rating of the MPs is, to a large extent, because of the behaviour of some of our colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u99	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. First line? I can't see. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs. Dear colleagues, first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank, No 554-01-146, submitted by Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs on 28 July 2015. Honourable Members, voting regime. They voted 119 MPs: 57, against 22, abstention 40. The proposed bill has not been adopted in the first vote. Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm asking for a re-vote, there were still incoming colleagues who couldn't vote. Colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are voting at first reading the bill. That is why I propose, to colleagues from GERB mainly, the good proposals that we have heard from you and for transparency and publicity, let us support the bill and submit them between the two readings. Let us really, if you believe that this two-pay limit to the President of the National Assembly is a low salary, offer a higher salary, but let us support it at first reading. Let's not forget one more thing: being on the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian National Bank, being a governor, above all, is a matter of prestige. And rest assured that a man who has been there and has not failed, that is, he has done well with his work, after the term has ended, he will be able to receive probably ten times the salary he received before. [[Comments from GERB: "This is not a procedure, this is a statement. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u101	No calls from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u102	That is, writing only this fact in the CV, in any case he will be able to get a much higher salary. It's a matter of prestige and reputation, but he can handle the job, not go bankrupt banks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u103	Re-vote mode, guys. They voted 119 MPs: 50, against 30, abstention 39. The bill hasn't been passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u104	Thank you. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedure for extending the time of the meeting until the examination of this point. 3 on the agenda. Honourable Members, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law Four political forces are importers of this bill: the Patriotic Front, colleagues from the Reformation Block, colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party, as well as colleagues from the BDZ. So this Law is extremely important because it concerns the non-payment of the salaries of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian honest, honest workers. These people are currently under extreme pressure because of the fact that no salaries of 10 have been paid at the rate of 20 000. lv. and as people in debt to the banks, they are deprived of property and we are obliged not to postpone the examination of this Law because a large part of these people are already practically on the street because of the fact that the bill that we have tabled does not work and does not work. That is why I am proposing an extension of time to consideration of this. 3 on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u106	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Let me just remind you that under regulations of 12:00 p.m....
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u107	That doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u108	Every first Wednesday, we have blitz control. I'm going to put it to a vote, which means if it's accepted, it'll continue after the blitzcontrol. A reverse opinion? I can't see. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Bayraktarov. Please, voting mode. They voted 104 MPs: 32, Against 34, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. Let's move on to point three: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE GARANT REPRESENTATIVES OF THE WORKERS AND THE OFFICERS IN THE NON-COOPERATION OF THE WORKER. We have a report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, respectively, from the other two committees that are addressed by the Law on Budget and Finance, we do not have. Here you go, Mr. Ademov. After the report, we'll go into rest mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u109	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on guaranteed claims of employees in insolvency of the employer, No 554-01-101, submitted by Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs on 26 May 2015. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting, held on 10 June 2015, examined the proposed bill. The meeting was attended by Mr. Galab Donev, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, Deputy Governor of the National Insurance Institute and Director of the Fund of Guaranteed claims of the workers and employees, Mr. Ivelin Zhelyazkov, Director at the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Fund of Guaranteed claims of the employees. The bill was presented by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front. The proposed changes provide for an extension of the scope of the Law on the guaranteed claims of employees in the event of the employer's insolvency, including cases of claims awarded, with an effective judgment in favour of employees arising from employment relationships. In this way, importers aim to achieve greater fairness in fulfilling claims awarded and outside the insolvency cases of the employer. The right of guaranteed claims for employees to arise from the date of issue of an executive sheet, on the basis of an application for a model declaration, with an attached executive sheet submitted by the worker or employee to the territorial division of the National Insurance Institute at the employer's seat. The guaranteed claims of the amount indicated in the executive list will be determined annually by the State Social Security Budget Act. According to the draft law under consideration, opinions were provided by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the National Insurance Institute, employers' and trade unions. Among the following, in support of the bill are the opinions of the Ministry of Justice and the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria. The Ministry of Justice considers that the proposals in the bill are in line with the guarantees provided for in art. 242, para.1 of the Civil Procedure Code and with the Labour Code, which grant privilege and protect the interests of employees to the maximum extent and can in principle be supported. However, it should be borne in mind that the proposed extension of the scope of the guaranteed claims is accompanied by an additional financial burden which, in turn, does not allow the risk of a rapid spending of funds by the Fund to be assessed in view of the large number of legal cases. The other opinions which do not support the proposals in the bill state that the current Law on the guaranteed claims of employees in the event of the employer's insolvency complies with Convention No 173 of the International Labour Organisation on the Protection of Workers in the event of the employer's insolvency and Directive 80/987/EEC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Protection of Workers and Employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer, codifying by Directive 2008/94/EC of 22 October 2008. It is stressed that mechanisms for the protection of workers and employees in the event of the insolvency of the employer are introduced in the internal legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria in order to ensure a minimum level of protection by guaranteeing claims only in cases where insolvency proceedings are opened in respect of the employer. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy believes that the extension of the scope of the Law could lead to abuse of right by incorrect employers. The opinion stresses that the Guaranteed Claims Fund of the Workers and Employees shall operate on the principle of solidarity and, if it is allowed to pay amounts, regardless of the reason why employers have not paid wages and/or benefits, it will be at the expense of employers who comply with the legislation. The Ministry of Finance points out that the proposed changes will result in significant additional expenditure on the Fund's budget, which in turn will reflect on the consolidated fiscal programme. In the reasons of the importer, there is no assessment of the expected financial consequences of the Fund's budget, as well as information on the expected number of eligible persons. In view of the extension of the circle of those persons, changes should also be reflected in art. 14 of the Guaranteed Claims Act, which defines the income sources of the Fund. Also, the proposed version of § 8 of the Bill concerning changes in art. 22, para. 3 of the Law contains a contradiction, insofar as, in the case of a guaranteed amount of claims, there is nothing to be determined in the annual Law on the Budget of State Social Security. The National Insurance Institute stresses the fact that in the Civil Procedure Code, the legislator has regulated a working mechanism to recover and satisfy cash claims through the formation of enforcement proceedings before a public or private judicial contractor and providing for the possibility of obtaining guaranteed claims outside the insolvency of the employer will have undesirable consequences. In his opinion, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, although expressing principle support for the bill, raises the question that with the proposal for an addition in art. 3 of the Law is unduly burdened with the payment of amounts which should then be claimed on the path of regressive liability by taking part in the creditor's rights, provided that the debtor is able directly to comply with the judgment by which the claim was given. In the course of the discussion, opinions were expressed that despite its imperfections and the need for adjustments, the bill is a good starting point for improving the legislative framework, which does not in its present form provide for effective protection for employees. For the implementation of the proposed amendments and additions, changes need to be made to the Commercial Law. As a failure in the current framework, the lack of legal opportunity was found for employees to claim insolvency of the employer, as well as the fact that the claims are guaranteed by the Fund only for those workers and employees working at the date of bankruptcy. On the basis of the statistics submitted that only 485 people have used funds from the Fund of Guaranteed claims of employees and employees, which has an asset of 250 million. BGN, it was concluded that the mechanism for guaranteeing employees' claims did not work effectively. It was also reminded that in the event of a deficit in the Fund, it cannot be compensated by funds from the Republican budget, but only by increasing the amount of insurance contributions. An important aspect of the issue to be addressed is also the problem of inter-company debt. After the end of the discussion and voting with results:.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u110	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. There is an argument to be made on behalf of the importer, however, due to the passing of time, I declare a break. At 12:00, we proceed with blitz control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u111	Colleagues, let's get started. Let's continue with: BLICCONTROL, scheduled for each first Wednesday of the month in the plenary sessions of the National Assembly for the time from 12.00 to 14.00 I'm expecting Mr. Kalfin. Prime Minister Borisov has no opportunity to come, as I have been called at the moment that talks are being held on the phone in connection with the extraordinary council. He can't be at the blitz control. In view of the size of the parliamentary groups, the group of GERB is the first. Mr. Plamen Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova on the topic of refugees. What's the refugee pressure right now? What measures are being taken in this direction? Is the government handling the problem of refugee accommodation? What is the workload of the Directorate for Migration in relation to the homes for temporary accommodation of foreigners and the State Agency for Refugees with regard to registration centres, the places where most refugees are admitted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u113	For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Recently, we have seen a decline in migratory pressure on the territory of our country. This is due both to the complex of political measures outside our territory. I also mean the talks that are being held with other countries and the season. Our main task at the moment, the main focus is to limit and neutralize the existing trafficking networks, which greatly favour this process, and to legalise everyone who passes so that they can be registered, checked and, if they request, receive refugee status. In this sense, I think the process is very well organised and works well. The next focus of our work is not to allow illegal migrants to spread inside the country. This is why we have recently conducted three police operations which aimed precisely at establishing the presence of illegal migrants in the settlements and proposing to them to go through the established legal order. As far as the capacity of accommodation is concerned, there is an overcrowding in the migration centres, i.e. people who expect to receive refugee status and a failure to fill the capacity of the centres where the State Agency for Refugees operates. We therefore make every effort to be able to reorganise the distribution of migrants from one of the other centres so that we can do better. This does not mean that we underestimate or feel that the danger has subsided or stopped. At the moment, we are ready to deal with heavier situations. I hope you don't have to! The construction of the partition facility is going a little slower than we expected, but this is the other direction in which we expect more sustainable results and eases the work of our employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u115	A line, Mr. Nunev? You won't use it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u116	Is the conversation continuing Mr. Borisov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u117	Yeah, at least that's my information, so far I don't have a gay one. [[Executive lines by MP Mihail Mikov.]] The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria is next. You're missing the first time. The Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? You're missing the first time. The Reformation Block Group? Mr. Slavov will ask a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u118	Madam President, honourable Members, ladies Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Donchev and it concerns the elections that should be held for President and Vice President next year and the preparations for these elections. Dear Mr. Vice President! As we know, the Election Code provides for this preparation, including resource provision, to be a common responsibility of the Council of Ministers and of the Central Election Commission. In view of what, unfortunately, we have been looking at in the last days in the "Arena Armeec"; what we have heard, many Bulgarian citizens, nearly two million said that they want to see an electronic vote next year; given that next year there should be a real engine vote, i.e. 100% of the sections should be able to actually vote at such terminals, I would like to ask how you see the preparation of these elections? Will there be powers, opportunities and resources for the Council of Ministers everywhere to buy the necessary equipment to conduct the engine voting next year in a normal order, without tension, in a civilised way, including in a way that does not question the election results? I would also very much like to hear this from you, especially as there is an attitude in the National Assembly to support the electronic vote, we could really think about its introduction, as long as, of course, this legislative initiative is implemented in the Election Code. This is my question regarding the preparation and readiness for the elections next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u119	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u120	Mr. Slavov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's a matter of time. Post-election passions should not be a reason not to look at the obvious defects that there are both in legislation and in the organisation of the electoral process, and not to strive for their improvement not necessarily a few months before the next choice. Without having the right to mention to the honourable National Assembly exactly what its programme should be, I call on you to have this debate run in the next few months and with regard to the extremely clear signal that has been received as a result of the referendum and regarding the redesign of the electoral rules where they have shown that they do not work. I will not say for the first time that my personal attitude to both electronic and machine voting is positive. I consider engine voting to be a rather intermediate phase. With experts, along with the position of the MPs, the right order must be found to introduce an electronic vote, of course, addressing the concern that there is among many people to limit the possible abuse of it. It is still early, given that we do not even have a mature debate on the 2016 budget, or correspondence or talks with the Central Election Commission, regarding the exact amounts that should be allocated to a machine vote plus the really difficult, perhaps unrealistic opportunity, to make a first attempt at e-voting during the 2016 elections. This is coming in the coming days. What is in the budget, such as providing resources, will be done. You know, with machines in 50 sections, experience has been made in these elections. I think the vote is rather smooth. I'm not convinced that the only version is buying machines. There is also an option for hiring similar devices. I hope that I am almost certain that in the next elections there will be an opportunity for machine voting not only in the sections in Sofia, but in more settlements in the country, which will allow both the electoral administration itself and the citizens to gain more experience. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is a process which we must walk together... the electoral administrations, the CEC, the government, as well as the National Assembly, whose heavy responsibility is for the good cut of electoral legislation and in view of the defects it has shown in the last elections, and in view of the new challenges related to the expansion of machine voting, machine counting, as well as the electronic vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u121	- What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u122	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your clear commitment. My question was somewhat provoked by the fact that, as I have pointed out, the current Election Code provides for an engine vote next year. That is to say, we must now, when adopting the State Budget Act, the budgets of individual organisations, including the CEC, including the Council of Ministers, provide for these funds to buy the relevant machines, so that it is not too late and we wonder where to look for funds. From the reference I made, it occurred to me that the CEC budget was almost identical to the one last year when they obviously did not need to purchase such machines. And I am glad that I have heard from you a very clear commitment and a positive attitude both to electronic voting and to machine voting, because I believe for myself that they can greatly help us get into the 21st century with regard to the electoral process and these shameful views of the last days not to see them, including these nearly 500 thousand. the vote, which are lost as null ballots, will no longer be gone, simply because the machine at the time of the vote indicates if the vote is in any way invalid, the voter can fix it. So I really think we're on time, and now we're starting the debate. I simply appeal to all my fellow Members, let us make the relevant legislative proposals and changes so that the election process next year can be a model for elections and that there are no such shameful views that we have seen under the current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u123	A hole, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u124	Dear Mr. Slavov, just one clarification "don't look for the cost of hiring or buying machinery for machine voting in the budget of the Central Election Commission. In view of the government's and the Council of Ministers' commitments in the electoral process, all such costs, all such orders are carried out by the Council of Ministers... both for printing ballots and election papers and for hiring/if there is a need to purchase such equipment. So the debate remains open, including in the 2016 budget preliminaries. If you would allow me to use the short amount of time we have, apart from this topic, which we have just commented on, there are several others related to the electoral process that should be at your attention the number of members of the Municipal Election Commission in large cities. One of the lessons from about ten days ago. The second conceptual conversation: what electoral administrations do we want by party quotas or professional ones? A topic on which I hope there will be a very thorough debate, including parliament? What balance of responsibility? Currently, the different units in the process are absolutely independent.. Central Election Commission, municipal, section and so on. They are not only independent of the government, they are to a certain extent independent of each other. Do we want a little more centralisation and responsibilities in the electoral process? Shouldn't there be a little more centralisation? Here is another topic on which I hope the National Assembly will decide in the best way. I'm always available if I can share my humble and not always a good experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u125	Now it's the Patriot Front Group. Mr. Karakachanov will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u126	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen, my first question is to Mrs. Bachvarova and it is in view of the events of the last few days related to the unrest that occurred among the uniformed part of the police, the army and other people who were affected by these proposals. My question is: what has imposed such proposals, which, as we see, create discontent in certain parts of society and at one time, in which domestic crime in Bulgaria is not a solved problem, the problem of illegal immigrants continues to stand and will not stop from 1 January 2016, and what are the final ideas in this direction? My question is: was there an estimate of what would be saved for the budget, and what would be lost if, for example, some 10,000 army officers, police by 30 December released reports and, as a result, received the necessary benefits? That's my question to clear it up. I know there's been a meeting today, so let's let people hear what's being agreed on so society can see from now on what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u127	For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u128	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Karakachanov! First of all, I mean, the importer of this proposal is not the Ministry of Interior. Importer of this proposal is the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u129	Colleagues, please! Sorry, Mrs. Bachvarova. The noise in the hall is very high, colleagues! I can hear your phone calls from here. I'm asking you to respect me very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u130	Importer of this proposal is the Ministry of Finance in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Law on the State Budget. This decision was not agreed with the Ministry of Interior. I cannot deny that talks in this direction were held with Minister Goranov about a month ago, shortly afterwards and all necessary estimates were provided to the Ministry of Finance. It is the decision of the importer and I accept it by recognising the right of the importer to have his own proposals on how to optimize the state budget in relation to one ministry or another, one activity or another. From now on, having this proposal, we've tried to discuss it with the unions. The analysis that has been done is that reforms are needed in the Ministry of Interior anyway, first of all, because I do not think that any of you here can say that you are satisfied with the activities of the Ministry of Interior. I'm not happy either. It is therefore necessary to change the conditions under which the employees of the Ministry of Interior work with all my deepest respect for the fact that they manage to do so in the conditions that we have left them. We voted, you, a budget last year, which does not allow employees to buy either pens or toners or any consumables for their activity. This is a decision with the state budget that has been voted on by all of you. These people keep working, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u131	Not all of them! Not all MPs have voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u132	Please, no lines, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u133	You haven't even voted and this unsecure wage increase in the previous years, Mr. Mikov, which we now have to pay. And we pay them off. Your populist decision then, is now being paid by the employees of the Ministry of Interior by having to cut their social benefits in order to save the state budget. And don't ever run away from responsibility in this situation: 200 million is a debt from your government!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u134	Please, Mrs. Bachvarova, respond to the MPs. Mr. Mikov's line from the hall was incorrect. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u135	So the reform is without an alternative in the Ministry of Interior. My personal desire and conviction is that it should become a once, secure and meaningful, a second time without harming the privileges and interests of the employees of the Ministry of Interior. One of the possible options was, as Mr. Goranov explained to me, to reduce the amount of salaries received as compensation without reducing the compensation in principle. This, at the request of trade unions and employees, is not an acceptable measure. I understand them and today the Prime Minister said that we will withdraw it, but from now on we are forced to take other measures because our responsibility to the employees is one thing. It is not subject to doubt and comment, but our responsibility, as a government and my personal as a minister, is to prevent the accumulation of additional debt and to be able to stabilize the system so that it is well-functioning in the interests of all the employees and society. Populism is the easiest and most convenient explanation for one or another behavior. There has come a time when we must think with reason and with responsibility for the years ahead. That's what I can tell you. I'm sorry for all those who were wronged by the protests yesterday and for those who had to go out on them and for those who changed their plans because of the protests, but the task is very great. It cannot be easily resolved, but I am extremely well-intentioned in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u136	The line is Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u137	Thank you for your answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. This is what I wanted to hear. I wanted to hear that it was not the policy of the Ministry of Interior that caused these unrest, but from now on I think it is right and normal for the Minister of Finance not to make the budget on one sheet only, but to make calculations. Let's imagine how much money could have been saved if this had happened in the way he imagined it to be no more than 25 million. lv. Now let's think about what would have happened if that had happened. Until yesterday, if I'm not mistaken, I think you leaked the information, 1200 people filed reports. By the end of December, there could have been 10,000 people at 20,000. lv. benefits, that's 200 million! It's Kiro in Kira! To win $25 million, you'll spend $200 million! That's nowhere to be found! The same applies to similar other initiatives to exploit people's tomato gardens, other things. The goal is not to fill the budget by scratching the skin of a compound or a layer. Filling the budget in the normal way in normal countries happens when business is developed and it pays its taxes. I am pleased with your answer because it would indeed lead to a collapse not only in the Ministry of Interior, but in intelligence, in the DANS, the fire department and so on. All these people would be put in front of a very serious dilemma whether to throw away their hats and get their benefits by December 31st. This would be a disaster on the topic of national security, so I am glad that the normal approach is sought and found. For me, however, normal was before such things were voted or launched either by the finance minister, either by any other to come, to comment on the national security committees, the Defence Committee, there is a parliament before such things are thrown into space to take a step forward, a step backwards. Nevertheless, I thank you for treating the employees of the Ministry of Interior and others who would be affected by such insane things.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u138	But now it's not clear what's going to happen next!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u139	It is unclear, I agree with your argument for reform. Reform should have, but in a similar operational way, this would not have been reform, but amputation, which would have plagued the work of the Ministry of Interior in the perspective of the other institutions that I have already listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u140	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u141	First of all, I'd like to apologize if I raised my voice, but I hope you understand. I'm sorry. Secondly, I would like to say that the period in which we had to reconcile this decision was an election period, and Parliament, the honourable Parliament, was also not working at this time, and we have legal deadlines to submit the budget, that is perhaps the answer that Mr Goranov would give you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u142	The group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center is now in order. Are there any questions from your parliamentary group, colleagues? I can't see. The Parliamentary Group of "Attacka" also has no representative. ABB's group, come in, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Bachvarova, who has a direct bearing on the past elections from a few days ago. The past elections for municipal councillors and mayors have given a number of occasions for numerous complaints and signals of violations of the actual electoral process on which the competent authorities are to rule. However, we should not overlook the subject of the invalid ballots. In these elections they are in an excessive number, including in large cities, which is generally an unknown trend so far. Particularly the impression of the protocols makes that the huge number of null ballots are those that are empty are those that have a vote in them to one or more parties or candidates respectively, and those in which the vote is not clear for which candidate it is. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: what has the Council of Ministers done, respectively the Ministry of Interior, with regard to prevention of such phenomena in the electoral process in terms of ensuring common security in the days of the election process? By prevention, I mean including explanatory campaigns to be directly reduced to small settlements where people are clearly aware of what vote they should vote on election day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u144	Mr. Belemezov, part of your question is not the competence of the Ministry of Interior, but I hope Mrs. Bachvarova will answer. Another is the deputy prime minister who is in charge of the elections at all. You're being asked the wrong question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Belemezov, yes, I would have made the same clarification, but you give me reason to say here, in this Chamber, what the Ministry of Interior has done with regard to the elections that have just ended: 13 155 employees have participated in both rounds in organizing and guarding the order for the elections to take place. It is not their job, it is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior to make explanatory campaigns for the elections. No way. I won't comment on who else it belongs to. The Ministry of Interior had established an organization a few months before the elections were held, together with the prosecutor's office on the basis of the analysis that all schemes leading to the purchase of votes, the violation of citizens' political rights, are thinking and organizing much earlier. We have done an analysis of everything that has so far happened in previous elections and started actively working on prevention, long before the elections were held. About 1,000 employees have also participated in guarding the election events of political parties. What we're reading right now is that we have a double increase in the signals filed for electoral violations. About 80% of them concern the violation of political rights. They're all checked out. Some of these signals, especially in the days of choice, have taken action within 4 hours with the prosecution. This time we have direct evidence of cases where there is an attempt to purchase and sell votes. Direct evidence! I hope this sees its results soon. The conclusion. We also conducted two specialized operations on individuals for whom we have information that they were involved in such schemes. We've checked everyone. We've issued 1702 warning protocols. We were actively present in all risk sections where there is practice to buy votes. I think that worked. However, I do not think that we have eradicated this problem because its root is in the practices that political parties use when they go to elections. I think that's the beginning of the road. The total number of signals received, as I said, is twice as high as 4580. This I interpret as a sign of increased confidence in the ability of the Ministry of Interior to deal with this problem and its prevention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u146	A line? You won't use it. On behalf of the non-members in a parliamentary group, MPs have the floor Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u147	Madam President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to Mrs. Kuneva. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, a week ago the European Parliament rejected rules proposed by the European Commission, which empowered the Member States of the European Union to restrict and prohibit the sale and use of genetically modified food and feed approved by the European Union on their territory. At the same time, in April this year, this issue was also addressed in this Parliament. legislation has entered into force which allows Member States of the European Union to prohibit the cultivation of GMOs already approved at European level on their territory. This decision of the European Parliament on genetically modified organisms will now give permission at European Union level, namely by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Commission. It is good to know that so far the European Union has approved imports of more than 60 genetically modified products, mainly from North and South America, and has authorised the cultivation of a variety of genetically modified maize. I would like to recall here, Mrs Kuneva, that at the beginning of the year, European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker personally accepted the commitment to strengthen and guarantee the autonomy of the GMOs countries and not to allow, as he said, violations of the independence of research. Now, however, after this act of the European Parliament, Juncker's promise is of no value. Mrs. Kuneva, what position will your government take on this matter? Should Bulgaria not defend the right of the Member States of the European Union, on their own, to prohibit the import of genetically modified products and feed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u148	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u149	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, fellow Members! Dear Mr. Enchev, I share your concern about the development of this so important proposal. Indeed, the President of the European Commission kept his promise. The Commission's position is as you have quoted. On the 28th, however, the European Parliament did reject the proposal to restrict or prohibit the sale and use of genetically modified food and feed approved by the European Council. According to MEPs, the proposal may not be applicable and lead to the introduction of border controls between the countries that are.................................................................................... The proposal was rejected by 577 votes.......................................... and 38 abstentions......................................................... I'd like to share with you the preliminary information we have. The Council's first discussion is July 13th. The Commission presented its communication on the review of the decision-making process on GMOs and the proposal for a regulation as regards the possibility for Member States to prohibit or restrict the use of genetically modified organisms in food and feed in their territory. There hasn't been another discussion since July 13th. The communication highlights the need to adapt the legal framework for GMOs in order for national governments to better express their views on the use of GMOs, i.e. about the case, what the Bulgarian country has stated. In March 2015, the Council and the European Parliament agreed to amend the legal framework with a view to enabling Member States to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of authorised GMOs on their territory. This is Directive No 412/2015. There is a need to extend this approach to genetically modified food and feed. The proposed regulation aims to balance the maintenance of the authorisation system and the freedom of States to take into account the use of GMOs. However, the proposed change would mean that, once a GMO is authorised for use as food or feed in the European Union, Member States may decide whether to give up this GMOs to be used in their agri-food chain. As if this is in Bulgaria, the withdrawal measures should be based on legal reasons other than those assessed at European Union level, i.e. a risk to human health, animals and the environment, and should comply with European Union law. Most of the European Council, where we, as a government, are meeting, have expressed their doubts about the proposed opt-out option and have considered that it will not offer them a practical and legally justified solution to the issue. Many delegations also stressed that the new process could weaken the Single Market and could be contrary to the Union's international commitments. Position. Overall, we support the European Commission's initiative with a reserve. Bulgaria has a restrictive policy regarding GMOs. We do not believe that the proposed act can provide the necessary solid legal basis for banning. It is essential for us to obtain an opinion from the Legal Service of the Council on the compliance of the proposal of the Regulation with the right to free movement of goods. There is insufficient evidence regarding the possible effects of the proposed measure. We share the concerns that in a number of Member States the missing impact assessment of the project is an act of fundamental importance when establishing the possible infringement of the internal market, i.e. the fines that would apply to Bulgaria. We have a doubt as to whether the public's attitude in terms of non-discrimination of GMOs can be used as a justification for its rejection.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. The line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u151	Mrs. Kuneva, I am glad that you share the concern not only mine, but I am sure of much of the Bulgarian society. Unfortunately, I can also say, referring to your concern, that, from today onwards, the Member States of the European Union are unfortunately becoming fully dependent on corporate interests, including those corporate interests, with a guaranteed negative outcome from such a trial, for example, if the GMOs company decides not to give consent to such restrictions on their sales permits, which they certainly would not, Mrs Kuneva, do. Let me remind you, as in my first speech, that until now maize with the code name ECN 810 has been the only GMO culture that has been grown in the territory of the European Union. But after this decision of the European Parliament, dangerous varieties can freely enter the territory of the European Union without being able to react adequately. I agree with you, let us wait for legal advice, the legal expertise of the European Commission, but I can certainly say at this stage that foreign corporate interests will be able to prevail over the interests of individual countries in the European Union. My deep belief is that in terms of GMOs, Bulgaria must pursue such an independent policy as the Hungarian Government is currently leading with Prime Minister Viktor Orban. Otherwise, if we do not follow Hungarian policy, our country will become, I say it with regret, a landfill for hazardous GMOs products of transnational companies, which obviously have a very strong influence in the European Parliament. Apparently, their lobbyists are stronger than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u152	To finish the first round of questions, Mr. Kalfin is already here. Would you like a duplicate, Mrs. Kuneva? Thank you. Mr. Mikov will ask a question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u153	Thank you, Madam President. That's the question I was going to ask to the Prime Minister, but as soon as he's on the phone, I'm going to ask him to Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u154	Let me get this straight, Mr. Mikov, without taking your time. With an apology to the MPs and to the media they have not understood: in connection with the extraordinary meeting of the European Council. I read in the media that... Who found out what was a separate question? International talks are being held in connection with the extraordinary meeting of the European Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u155	Okay, if you don't have cell phones, then apparently the Assembly can't make these calls.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u156	We're listening, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, we are talking about a fundamental issue. These days the invisible results of a right-hand drive appear more and more. A government that does not account for poverty in Bulgaria. The police yesterday saw the invisible results, but I think the next few days and other groups, social, professional, will see the invisible results. Bulgaria is a country torn apart by poverty destroyed by poverty, a country whose perspective is already shorter than in the long term disappears due to the absence of a policy aimed at poverty. This is also evident in the budget tabled these days. I understand that it shouldn't have been imported before the elections, but people will see what happened to them at the same time: assistance with two or more children is frozen; compensation for raising a child At the same time, a trick is being done - the income of both parents is being taken to reduce children who receive family benefits in relation to the monthly income. Fifty percent of first-graders this year, and in some regions such as Smolyan reach 86 per cent, in Kardzhali 76 per cent, in Vidin, 74 per cent, benefit first-graders. They use for first graders, but for second graders and third graders, they don't use anything. That doesn't surprise me at all that they're dropping 20% from the first to the third grade. Maybe it's a good thing that you've reduced your secondary education not to the VIII, but to the VIIIth grade... [[the President signals that time has run out]] Right...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u158	Yeah, I've done the math. I've extended my 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u159	The big question: don't you think that with the policy that your right-wing government conducts in terms of combating poverty, you are destroying any prospects for Bulgarian citizens and they should seek their lives somewhere outside Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u160	For an answer, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mikov, we will be able to discuss in detail the data, figures and figures from next year's budget. Now I am not going to comment, all the more so that some of the ones you have just expressed are not true. You probably didn't get the budget project right. Since you mentioned poverty, I must tell you that the official data we have on which we are working and which we are using very actively in all the measures we are taking to curb poverty show that its peak in recent years is 2014. Until then, the latest data have come out. I don't know what kind of government was then ruling, you probably know better, but the peak of increasing poverty in recent years is 2014. This is the statistical data. I think this is a topic on which I would suggest that we think together about what can be done within the limits of the state's capabilities, of course. Especially worrying is this problem in children and older people, so not with measures that sound good, but have no effect, but actually with measures that have an effect, to fight this issue. I expect your constructive behaviour during the discussions of the 2016 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u162	The line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, yes, it is true that in 2014 it was because a similar policy was held before that by a government.. right, far right, led by the same prime minister. There's nothing to be surprised at what you're saying. In 2014, thawing of these social payments was undertaken, in 2015 the same government came back with the same prime minister to which you are deputy prime minister and it froze them again. Freeze them in Budget 2015. We say: okay, we wait to see. Maybe this government came to mind from the last time you ruled. However, it is now evident that the same measures are being taken. I have listed them to you, and I will read them again to the Bulgarian citizens because you say it is not true, but you do not say why it is not true. The help for two or more children is BGN 75 at the same time. The compensation for raising a child from 1 to 2 years is the same since 2014, and for 2016 you have provided for it this way; the aid for first-graders is the same. It is a good thing that in 2014 the government changed for a while, because three years ago there was a freeze again. The tales of poverty are one thing, the MPs have gone to the country on the election campaign and have seen what murderous poverty we are talking about. Against this murderous poverty, the government is proposing a tax policy for the lowest income groups. Just like last year you've been sucking up the poor by raising their taxes by 10%, this year you've decided the gardens to bet. So this is right, right, far right. Those who say that there is no left or right will have more and more difficulty with propaganda in front of the people who have 350 To farmers you raise the insurance by 10%, and high income groups according to your understandings should not touch. This kills the fabric of the society, increases the disproportions and perspectives in front of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u164	It's a hole, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u165	Dear Mr. Mikov, the data I mentioned for 2014 is reported by the budget action statistics adopted by you at the end of 2013 for 2014. In all this grace you have now mentioned that it has been provided to citizens last year, poverty has peaked. Obviously, that's not a good approach. I'm not saying this to get political. By the way, in your version I can list half of the European countries in which the left and right rule together, but it is difficult to reach you. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] Let's read the numbers that are true. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] The budget you have made for 2014 has increased poverty. What we are going to discuss next year, where, again, I say, in the budget options, we need to look for the most vulnerable groups and they are protected, and I hope there will actually be constructive dialogue, because both the increase in minimum wage and social security benefits and the different types of supplements for children are in the proposal for next year's budget. I'm counting on your support for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u166	Have we run out of questions from the first round? Are there any groups that missed their turn? I don't see any desire. We move on to the second round of questions - the group of GERB is the first. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin. The depopulation processes in the low employment regions of the population are beginning, unfortunately, to become a permanent trend. Lack of work and appropriate means of maintaining a normal life in areas such as Vidin, Montana, Vratsa make local residents increasingly seek livelihoods in large cities or abroad. This negative trend results in both demographic and economic terms and raises the issue of the future of these regions increasingly. Businesses avoid taking initiatives in the regions in question because of the lack of sufficiently well-trained personnel, and people of working age from these regions are looking for livelihoods outside their homes because of the insufficient supply of jobs. This gap is to the detriment of both one and the other category and even worse for the development of the regions themselves. In this regard, my question to you, Mr Kalfin, is: what actions and initiatives will the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy take to stop the depopulation processes of the regions with high unemployment and can you commit to achieving concrete results both in the short and long term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u168	For an answer, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u169	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angelova, the question you are asking is really very important. I, including the other day was in Vidin, had a meeting with the Bureau of Labour and Social Services, had a conversation with the County Co-operation Union, and with the governor I saw, there are actually a number of problems that were posed by all these groups and they are in the same direction and it is the problem that you have put yourself in place. People from such regions as Vidin leave, especially young, qualified people, and at the same time, when an investor comes, they give me concrete examples in Vidin, there are no prepared people who he can hire. There are two solutions here that we could make, and they are, unfortunately, not only in the field of labour policy and the labour market. Jobs are created by investors and by the economy, and I think this is understandable and supported by everyone. What we might be able to help is two things. The first is related to qualification and education. You passed the School Education Act. I hope from next year that dual education can actually enter into action, especially in similar types of regions, so that, when they graduate from secondary school, young people have a profession, not graduate from general schools, from which they can then find it difficult to realize their place. In this case with Vidin, I think there are actually jobs that would take on such students. Secondly, what we can do and do is look for different forms of support for employers where they exist in these regions. In addition to the programmes related to professional qualifications, we have also tried with the help of Parliament, for which I thank you to do several innovations, and it is in such regions where it has been said so far: "Well, there is no employer. " I'll give you an example of the day-to-day contracts -- over 78 thousand for this year, and half of the agricultural season. This is practically an official job created in those regions which are agricultural and where there are only farmers. Secondly, following the changes in the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Code, we allow farmers to receive subsidies when they hire workers We are currently working on a bill that we will present to you, before that we will have a discussion related to a change in the structure of social services. There, too, we are counting on creating additional jobs, of course, some of them will be subsidised, some of them will be on the market so that they can pay some of the consumers. These are practically new types of employment that were not there two years ago or were in the grey economy, and with which we are trying to keep the workers and the people who actually have the opportunity to be on the labour market in these regions. The big problem is related to investors and investment development and job creation in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u170	Line, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u171	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues! Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. We are taking into account the government's efforts to increase employment through various measures, programmes and, above all, the proper use of all European funds and funds from the state budget to reduce unemployment and increase employment, especially in these regions with the highest rate of unemployment. Thank you for this response and I hope that these programmes will actually have an effect soon, these measures, in these regions, to keep young people in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u172	A hole? You won't use it. The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria is now in order. It's from Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u173	Madam President, my question is to Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova, he is a more sensitive problem for Bulgarian citizens and is related to the last meeting, a few days ago, at the initiative of the President of the European Commission and the German Chancellor, with the leaders of the executive power of the Balkan countries on the reaction to the new waves of migrants and refugees. What has become clear is that the distribution in this region is foreseen to be 100,000. people, of which 50 thousand on the territory of the Hellenic Republic and 50 thousand in other Balkan countries north of Greece. My question to you is because this is in your portfolio and you must be fully informed by the Prime Minister: has Bulgaria taken on any additional obligations within this number of 50 thousand, to have an additional number of immigrants here or return? In such a very decent expression, they are called the "stay and rest period', but it is not known how long this rest period will last because it is envisaged that persons will be identified, examined the reasons why they are present, to be allocated as having or not having the right to further movement or return to the places of their origin in the countries concerned. It is good to tell us whether there is anything that arises for Bulgaria from this meeting, as this information remains open and personally I, my colleagues and Bulgarian citizens do not have such an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u174	For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u175	Mrs. Tsacheva! Mr. Stoilov, my answer is no. But I would like to make a few explanations regarding this problem. We are committed to participating in two relocation projects which have been approved by the European Council on a proposal from the European Commission. What we have done within the deadlines for which this meeting is specified is to present the Bulgarian coordinator on migration policies and we have designated Mrs. Petya Parvanova to be such a coordinator, i.e. the contact point to maintain dialogue with other countries. The other thing we have done is that we have adopted the Migration Policy Council, which we co-chair with Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin, the relocation framework, that is, the way we will make this commitment. We are talking about the first distribution of 40 thousand, and the second one of the additional 120 thousand, and we have assumed the responsibility by the end of the year to accept 50 to 100 migrants from Greece and Italy under the quota which has been established in advance. The costs of these refugees, which we will accept, are set by the Commission, there is a line for this. Additional commitments have not been made, it is an informal meeting. Emergency meetings of interior ministers and Heads of State are forthcoming. I have not been informed to have such points on the agenda before, but our policy and position at the moment is that yes, we accept this commitment that we have declared, and we are trying to fulfil it. There are many question marks in the way it will proceed after the distribution and reception of these refugees. We've also asked these questions. We're waiting for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u176	Thank you. The line, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Your response is specific and so far reassuring. I hope that in further formal meetings the government will stick to the position expressed by you. I am also using the case to ask you if you can roughly tell the real number of migrants for the entire period from which this wave began, which currently resides in Bulgaria, because it is more impressive. I'm not going to say how much bigger than the formally registered persons. For this reason, I think we should have one orientation and this process should be monitored in its overall development, as its beginning is already well before the time we discuss it, and I fear it will continue to be up to date. So now I do not want to expand the issue of the other measures Bulgaria will take to prevent illegal access to its territory, outside the official crossing points. I call on you in this regard to have a very clear position and to put the issues before the European Union for further support for Bulgaria as an external border of the European Union, including those measures that have already been taken by us. And to use, if you can say, how many are the persons who have crossed the border in this period, or at least how many of them continue to be in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria? And as you said that this wave has decreased lately, can you commit to saying that this number will not be increased more than with those persons in the process of repatriation, for which Bulgaria has already made commitments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u178	Mr. Stoilov, with all due respect to you, questions about blitzcontrol should not be such as to require specific numbers and specific information... [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] A explicit text in the Rules of Procedure... [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Think of it as a condition, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u179	I take that as a second question because I have to answer you for a long time. What I can tell you is that right now there are about 2,000 people in both centers. At the moment, about 15,000 have requested status. Most of them are not located in the territory of the country. There are also those, just to clarify, which are at an external address after they have passed the procedures that will lead to them receiving refugee status, that is to say, those for whom we do not have sufficient grounds for obtaining such status remain with us for a longer period of time. In my opinion, there is a major problem in Europe with accurate statistics at all, because the main part of the large masses of people entering through the individual channels currently in Europe are not registering. Statistics are very difficult to establish. We've taken a model that we're doing it by. Mrs. Parvanova has been doing mostly this in recent days. We establish those who enter in the legal way, those we find have entered the border in an illegal manner and have detained to be registered, as well as those we hold at a exit from our border. Compared to what we see from neighbouring countries, this number is not great, but this does not exclude the possibility of increasing it. I can say another figure that if we have, say, about 500, 600 people at our border, the opposite country, in Turkey, there are about 5,000 people. That is why we are very much betting on our cooperation with the Turkish authorities in this sensitive area. Your number's been notified. It's not about repatriation in any way, it's about relocation. This is the process that is taking place. There are also It is discussed the possibility of having a third version of this document, which means one part of the people who are not inside Europe, to be returned to the countries in which they have received such status. This is why there are many refusals here with us to obtain this status. In fact, this is also the reason why the illegal crossing of the border is encouraged. We make every effort to know what the real situation is every day, we have such a picture.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u180	Actually, that was Mrs. Bachvarova's backdrop. The Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is in line. I don't see anyone who wants to. On behalf of the Reformation Block, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u181	Madam President, ladies Deputy Prime Minister, gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin. It concerns the policy of the Council of Ministers regarding tax insurance policy and, more precisely, the envisaged increase in minimum insurance thresholds. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, we understand that such a thing is planned for next year, and it will practically be essential. This is definitely not well accepted by business, nor well by the employed in this area, because it could mean an increase in the grey economy. As you know, when the tax burden on business is increased, it is often forced, given that we are still in a situation of survival and after a severe economic crisis, to release employees. So I would like to ask you: what requires this increase in minimum insurance thresholds, and often in business language this translates as an increase in insurance, i.e. under the pretext of not raising the insurance but raising the minimum insurance thresholds, which, above all, lead to the same increase in one additional burden for business? In this regard, I would like to ask you: is it not better to think of a regionalization of the formation of insurances, given that there are severe disproportions in Bulgaria regarding the different regions? That is, if we take the Northwestern region as an example. It is one thing there to have employed, for example, to say, in the field of bread production, and another is bread production in Sofia, it is about quite different incomes, it is about quite different insurances, but unfortunately, it continues to act a common model for the whole territory of the country, which practically applies to all its regions, even though some of them are of great unemployment and with much lower incomes. My question is: what does this increase in minimum insurance thresholds require? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u182	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin, please come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u183	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Slavov! Minimum social security benefits in principle, by idea should be negotiated between employers and trade unions. This has been happening for years. There are 85 economic activities that are classifiers and it is assumed that in each of them, following an analysis of all available data that the State has an obligation to provide, trade unions and employers must agree. This year, agreement was reached in 48 economic activities as a result of these negotiations. I want to thank both the trade unions and the employers for reaching such an agreement. This is an agreement in which the state has not intervened and which we accept as it is. Unfortunately, in most of the other economic activities, with several exceptions, there was no dialogue. And there's no way, with all due respect to social partners, trade unions or employers, that they could accuse the state of making an administrative decision after they didn't go and negotiate, even if they were unsuccessful. Even if they didn't agree, it's the duty of both sides to sit at the table, discuss all the questions and see where their differences are. Somewhere this has not happened because there is no representation in some activities of a trade union or employer, but there are activities in which they simply refused or showed up at the first meeting and one of the parties said: "We will no longer participate and have not participated in the negotiations. So why does it go up by 8.5? The main explanation is because of the minimum wage, as the thresholds cannot be below the minimum wage. In addition, different values have been taken into account in the various economic activities where consent has been reached. That's the mean. Somewhere they're growing more, somewhere they're growing less. I proposed to the social partners next year to change the way we did. As a representative of the state, and I think that we should all help them to have representation in these areas, to make efforts to have negotiations everywhere that are meaningful, and we should make a commitment to have criteria where, if it does not come to agreement, then to use them to make a decision. I think this negotiation of minimum insurance benefits can be transferred to negotiating the minimum wage for individual sectors that are normal, good practice in developed countries. For regional minimum wages, I fear that there are quite a number of arguments against such an action, as life costs are very often similar, especially for essential goods such as electricity, fuels and so on. In addition, the division of Bulgaria into regions very often leads to harmful or unproductive incentives. I know regions where because of the low tax paid by an investor, he does not hire workers from the same region to keep unemployment from rising, but from the neighbouring region. We shouldn't let things like that happen. Bulgaria is not a big country. So, rather, I think regionalisation can be difficult to do, but there can be division by sector and I sincerely rely on trade unions and employers, instead of blaming the state, will sit down and make the least effort to agree on minimum insurance benefits. Only one clamp with this finishes, the minimum insurance income is paid by both the employer and the worker. He splits 60 into 40, so they both picked their pockets for this thing. In addition, insurance benefits are eventually piled up in the insured's savings book, so it's not money that goes nowhere.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u184	Here you are, Mr. Slavov, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u185	Dear Mr. Kalfin, I certainly agree with you that the best approach to solving a problem is dialogue. But what I cannot agree with is that obviously when there was no dialogue on some sectors, i.e. they did not agree, the administrative increase in minimum insurance thresholds is a good solution. Rather, I think that if we borrowed the principle from the administration, there was rather a silent refusal there, that is, they did not agree with such an increase and perhaps that is why they did not reach dialogue and agreement. But in any case, they did not agree to raise their minimum insurance thresholds. Curiosity is raising, by the way, the question of why only one industry does not increase, and as far as I have information, only tobacco producers do not have an increase. It is very interesting what are the arguments only and this industry to actually receive this reference. Surely you are also familiar and have read in the media that there were certain reproaches in lobbying in this regard, so it would be interesting to hear your argument here. As far as regionalisation is concerned, I think that long ago, as a Member State of the European Union, the approach really needs to be more regional than in a populated area, i.e. to seek unifying signs for whole regions, to seek common solutions for them, rather than to act on the traditional sign of whether a populated area or a state of the country. I think this is a European approach. I don't see anything wrong with thinking about him being carried into this area. It certainly won't be easy, it takes a lot of work, but I'm used to asking questions to you, you always coming prepared and always economically well to justify yourself. I really think that in this case you will agree with me that the simple increase in minimum insurance income does not simply represent an excel table where one coefficient changes and we collect more money from business and people. There are many other factors that immediately reflect, which have started from gray economy, unemployment and so on. All this should be taken into account when making decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u186	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Slavov, to answer the additional question you asked me. There was no dialogue in most of the sectors, I take it, when they met, they made efforts and did not agree. There are several such sectors. But there was just no conversation in the others. It lasts several months and should actually make efforts. This is what I hope next year, if there is a good desire, of course, for trade unions and employers to avoid. As for what you asked, it was my initial proposal with an attempt to actually be more objective. There were several sectors.. they were the number of fingers of one hand in which there was effort and no agreement was reached. We decided to look at the indicators in these areas. We picked up two indicators for the first half of this year's average wage and average social security income. In only one sector, which is tobacco processing, not tobacco production, it is in the agricultural sector, only there and both indicators are simultaneously declining at the beginning of this year. Maybe they're not the best. By the way, after obviously leaving, I admit, poor communication and a sharp reaction, this thing has been canceled, for everyone to accept the same percentage now, but, anyway, next year I proposed to the social partners that we should look for criteria that are objective and when there is no agreement, and there is no agreement that these criteria should still be used when the final decision is taken. I hope indeed that we will discuss this with trade unions and employers, this process will be easier next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u188	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. Are there any questions from the Patriotic Front? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Tomislav Donchev. Mr. Donchev, my question is related to an extremely serious problem which, unfortunately, will also be repeated in the second programming period 2014 - 2020. What's this about? As you know, local elections have passed, much of the mayors and especially the rural mayors rely on the Rural Development Programme. However, this Rural Development Programme, apart from falling behind at this point in my information, if I was wrong, forgive me, but somewhere by about a billion and 200 million, at least this pointed to the latest February report with 806 pages of content that I read carefully... What's the big problem? I'm going to set a specific example so that my colleagues can understand it, because I'm sure you know it. I will take the municipality of Stara Zagora as an example. The only city in this municipality is the town of Stara Zagora and 52 settlements. Unfortunately, however, according to the current regulation of the Programme, in these 52 villages during the first programming period, and unfortunately it also emerges during the second programming period, not a single euro of this Programme has entered because of the reason that the largest populated area has a population of over 30 thousand people. Such are the examples in other municipalities. We are also risking in the next programming period that we cannot fully absorb this program, which is extremely important. Moreover, you know that there will be no money from Euro programmes after 2020. Then we will find ourselves in an extremely complicated situation for these villages to be scary, terribly backward and the worse, completely depopulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u190	For an answer, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u191	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, dear Mr. Bayraktarov! Let me first point out that there will be funds from the EU funds after 2020, but due to an increase of Bulgaria's gross domestic product, as a ratio to the European average, they will probably be a little less. It is likely that the rules by which they will walk will be changed. Much more serious will be the share of the so-called instruments of equity and recycled money that allows funds to be used more than once and not to be allocated as grant funding. Yeah, you're absolutely right about the problem you're putting in there. I myself, in the years back, have repeatedly paid attention to this problem, that the villages around the large municipalities are in an extremely unequal and unfavorable position. In many cases, both in the old and in the new programming period, they have no chance of using European funding for public measures. With regard to private measures, the situation is more favourable. What is the reason for this? This was agreed, so it was concluded, with such a cut and relationship between the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" and the Rural Development Programme, the Partnership Agreement last year. I can explain what was the initial idea of the allocation of additional resources under the Rural Development Programme and the establishment of a separate measure in the Programme to finance the villages around the large municipal centers. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Yes, rural areas around the major municipal centers will have the opportunity to use funds from the European Regional Development Fund during the Bulgarian Operational Programme "Regions in Growth." However, this resource, frankly speaking, will not be sufficient for the needs of the villages and will, to some extent, enter into sharp competition with the needs of investment in urbanised territory. This is still good news against the background of what I explained to you that you are right. Unfortunately, they will not have the opportunity for public measures to benefit from funding from the Rural Development Programme. The odds were dropped last year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u192	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I really thank you for the correct answer, but unfortunately I cannot be pleased with what you said, not that you are incorrect, but by what will follow for the Bulgarian villages, i.e. you correctly said that for them money under the Rural Development Programme we are talking about these, I specify those who are around the big cities will not have, which is an extremely bad news. I hope you find some way to correct this Programme, although I do not know how it will happen, if I have to be honest with you. In this situation, it may not be too late for the Council of Ministers to look through the budget in what way to help the Bulgarian village, because depopulation will lead to a really serious problem. I hope we all understand that. So the big programmes, which will benefit large cities, mostly the Regional Development Programme, will be used there anyway, but let us, through the budget, try to direct funds to the villages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u194	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u195	Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, in my desire to be good I will say this way. I am very skeptical about the possibility to renegotiate the entire partnership agreement and the so-called "demarcation line".............................................................................. between the Operational Programme............. You're right about your concerns. In my opinion, however, there is a way out and it is more than one with possible measures and solutions. In fact, when we talk about rural areas around large cities, we have two mutually exclusive hypotheses. I mean, that's what's seen in reality. Some of these territories are depopulated, but some of these territories, strangely enough, and for some surprisingly, attract new inhabitants. It's about the villages that are right around the community center. In both cases, however, new investments are needed. In one case, it is to keep the population there, providing basic services. In the other, to satisfy the needs of the increased population, who prefer to work in the city, and to live outside the city. First of all, after large investments in both urban and water and water infrastructure, especially in large municipalities, they receive new opportunities on the basis that they do not constantly have to make investments related to current renovations. If we claim that there are not hundreds but thousands of miles of renovated streets in the Bulgarian cities and as a result of the Operational Programme "Environment" and as a result of the old Operational Programme "Regional development" this gives all municipalities on the basis of the capital program a chance to devote a little more resources to rural areas, for these two reasons, which I pointed out a little while ago, in order to keep the population where there is a problem with depopulation and, on the other hand, to satisfy the needs of the already grown population. I don't rule out the role of the state here. You know that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works concludes a Programme that has a slightly different focus, but is still related to this topic. It has targeted investments in backward and peripheral areas. When the Programme comes to Parliament's attention, I do not exclude my participation here, the question you are putting can also be seen in the light of this new Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u196	A question from the parliamentary groups of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, of the ABB and of the "Attack" none. Mr. Velizar Enchev, however, has a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u197	Madam President, Ministers and Ministers! I have a question for the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova. Mrs. Bachvarova, in September of this year, you stated in your written statement that you still have no clarity about the deadlines in which the fence along the border with the Republic of Turkey will be completed. Two months have passed from this statement and I am directly asking you "Do you already have clarity will the fence be completed by the end of this year, or is there a real risk of extending this period? Then you argued with quite serious motives that it was a very difficult terrain, water obstacles that really made it difficult for the builders and performers of this project, which, I recall, was voted in this National Assembly to be carried out without announcing a public tender and competition. The second very important issue, which is perfectly adequate to what is happening today with the Bulgarian police officers, is the big problem regulated with the additional payment of the Bulgarian police and border police officers along the border with the Republic of Turkey in view of the submitted facts in recent months for serious domestic problems, especially with heating, a problem which is now, in these months, on the eve of winter, particularly serious? And perhaps the most important, at least for me, question is: how is the implementation of the government's decision from September this year for the inclusion of the Bulgarian army in the security at the border?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u198	Five questions are up!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u199	This is an extremely important issue. Would you explain to the MPs and the Bulgarian public this combination between the army and the police to what results already? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u200	For an answer is the word of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u201	I will answer all three questions briefly. There's been a delay in construction. It relates to some objective reasons. As I am informed, in relation to the fact that it is more efficient and the price is formulated on the basis of an indicative purchase entirely of the materials needed for the construction, with the limited payment for the first period. I personally spoke to Mr. Belivanov before he ran and won his happy mayor's seat in Haskovo. The other area in which we have difficulties in implementation was also related to the design in the area around Malko Tarnovo. It's a really tough terrain out there. I've personally seen almost 90 degrees is in some places the slope that needs to be covered. These are the obligations expected at the moment. The second was for the dissatisfied, and the third was for the army. We act according to the order so far, we pay the travel expenses and provide conditions that do not differ from those for previous shifts. With regard to cooperation with the Bulgarian Army, I would like to express satisfaction with the ministry's willingness to cooperate. We have specific plans. There was an early stage where we expected a little more pressure when they came in. They're not part of security right now because we've decided there's no need. They are ready, however, at any moment when they have to join us. I'm going back to the first and biggest subject. These are the opportunities within the budget we have, even beyond it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u202	- What's the line? I hope there aren't a few more questions in the line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u203	You just said the army's ready to join, but it's not on yet. I'm asking the following question. [[Loud noise and shouting!]] Actually, I'm expressing my opinion. The fact is that in recent months we have witnessed the capture of a group of migrants deep within the territory of the country, which calls into question the effectiveness of the work of the Border Police. Therefore, after being caught around Vratsa, around Elin Pelin and deep into the country's territory.. around Sredets, with this tragic accident, says that border guards are not efficient. I would also like to point out that yesterday I received information from Sofia region, where I am a Member of the National Assembly, that there was a shooting at a group of migrants near Elin Pelin a week ago. Is that right? Elin Pelin commented on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u204	Specific issues do not go into blitzcontrol. Do you have anything to say? [[Calling Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova.]] I won't. Let's thank the deputy prime ministers for their participation in today's blitz control. We continue with the legislative work for today. On behalf of the applicant, an opinion on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on guaranteeing employees' claims in the event of insolvency of the employer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u205	Mr. Bayraktarov, I see you're ready. Please hurry. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was waiting for the ladies and gentlemen to withdraw, Deputy Prime Minister, a matter of respect. Honourable colleagues, the Bill, which we have introduced in practically four political forces.. colleagues from the Patriotic Front, the Reformation Bloc, BSP left Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Democratic Center, concerns an extremely complex problem that has accumulated and continues to escalate over the years. What's the real problem? The law on guaranteeing employees' claims from employers in default is de facto not working. I would like to quote the words of the temporarily managing this fund Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova from the meeting of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy on 20 May this year, at which a meeting she delivered correct data that up to the present time it is up to 20 May 2015, the fund has compensated the huge number of Bulgarian workers in the number of 485. Four hundred and eighty-five people! The big problem is why this fund does not work because Bulgarian workers who work honestly and honestly and as regulated in the Bulgarian Constitution and laws should receive their wages but do not receive them. Here, I'll give you a follow-up. To date, debts have been accumulated by incorrect employers who do not pay salaries and wages, including even state and municipal enterprises, this amount has already exceeded 150 million. lv. One hundred and fifty million leva! These are our friends, relatives, mothers and fathers. Some of them have to receive remuneration up to $20,000. lv. It's not even a social question anymore. He's going in another direction of tragedy. Working, these people took out credit. They do not receive remuneration, cannot serve their loans and fall under the hits of creditors banks. A large part of these people lost their homes for their honesty and integrity as employees, others are in a state of executive proceedings. The bailiff has announced their homes and properties on public sale. We were obliged to respond to that question. In fact, today you will hear possible allegations that we are almost trying to drain the fund. To find out what the procedure is, I'll try to explain it to you in detail. The procedure is as follows. The worker does not receive his reward. He has the right to complain to the Labour Inspectorate. The worker complains, the Labour Inspection shall carry out a check, finds that the worker or employee concerned does not receive his or her remuneration and issue a constitutional act with a prescription. This prescription is within a certain time limit, usually about one month, for the employer to pay the remuneration. However, the prescribed deadline expires, the employer again does not pay the wages, the worker complains again, then, naturally, the Labour Inspection, doing its job, drawing up an act to impose a penalty on the employer and things end! Pay attention, there is a thin moment here: the state becomes an accomplice in robbing Bulgarian workers. In what way? The scheme is very simple and simple. The incorrect employer does not pay the salaries, but pays the insurance to the state, so that it cannot search for it, so that it cannot enter with all its strength and repression apparatus with it. Next, the Labour Inspectorate imposes a penalty on this incorrect employer. I've done my best, and I'm going to show you how much fines have been imposed over the past few years to make it clear how the state becomes an accomplice. [[Shows document.]] This is the official response from the General Labour Inspection, in which it gives a detailed breakdown of the sanctions imposed on such employers for the period 2005 to 2015. Pay attention: these amounts have not been collected, that is to say the state has been looking unattended, not looking for the funds, and these funds, honourable Members, are at the modest amount of 103 million. 53,000. BGN 657, 103 million. 53,000. BGN 657.! Only this money, if it had gathered the state, could have provided for the workers. However, things do not end here, honourable Members. I've been trying to get a background check from the National Revenue Agency. Here's the official answer, guys. Anyone who wants to meet him can. What do the National Revenue Agency say to me? That the total number of criminal decrees and, in particular, the total amount of outstanding claims on a type of fine by acts of public applicants are at the modest value of 556 million. So far, it's 660 million leva. Now it's more interesting, because there are people who are going to blame me and the importers that we almost wanted to go bankrupt, the so-called $250 million capital fund. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u207	Who's accusing you?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u208	Colleagues from GERB, colleagues from DPS. I'm saying this because I have nothing to worry about, but I need to know. This fund, over the past five years, has continuously generated revenue of 10 to 12 million. lv. Notice the interest rate. That's 250 million sitting on deposits, operating through government securities, stimulating someone's business, I don't know who. And every year, 10 million revenue. And, as you understand, the payment was due until 20 May 485 Bulgarian workers. We therefore propose amendments to the Law to make it work to restore justice and faith in the state, because Bulgarian workers go through a judicial procedure, condemn the incorrect employer, supply with an executive list and cannot get their salaries, because just the thugs use thousands of levers, carry out all kinds of machinations while the worker sues them. Finally, he remains with an executive list and the woe that there is no state and judicial system to protect him. Take a look at the guarantee fund we protect with the deposits of our Bulgarian citizens up to 100 thousand. EUR, and we do not guarantee the wages of the Bulgarian worker and employee, which are given to him as a right under the law of employment. Well, I ask who is it that is going to come out today to oppose and say that it is not fair, that the law which has not been working so far, which all the experts who attended the Commission have firmly admitted that the Law does not work, that it cannot be concluded, that it cannot even be declared bankrupt. That's the truth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u209	And thank you for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u210	That's not a statement, that's an importer's opinion. To be exact. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u211	For the opinion of an importer in the form of a speech, thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u212	Now I'm going to continue with my speech. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u213	Debates are open. I see you have a wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u214	No, no, I'll hold. I'll wait for someone else.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u215	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Anyone? Mr. Bayraktarov, you are continuing with a real statement. You have the floor. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u216	Yeah, with a real statement. I am turning now with this statement and calling, firstly, for all Members of the Reformation bloc to gather to support their and our joint bill, because I am currently seeing only a few people. As you can see, the Patriotic Front Group is in full formation. I appeal to my BSP fellow Member if you really are a left-wing party, please call on your colleagues to come to their seats so that we can vote, because I am counting only 9 people from BSP at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u217	Mr. Bayraktarov, don't act like a quaestor, please. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u218	That's my statement on the ground, and don't interrupt me. I've got plenty of time to finish this. [[Radio.]] From now on, I call on my fellow Members to support this bill in the first vote because it is fair, brings justice and makes the Law work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u219	Thanks for the speech. Replices, honourable colleagues? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I ask the Quaestors to ask the MPs from parliament's lobby to order in the Chamber and you to prepare for a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting at first reading on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on guaranteed claims of employees in the event of employer bankruptcy, No 554-01-101, submitted by Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs on 26 May 2015. Please vote. Vote 85 MPs: 41, Against 6, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Bayraktarov, re-vote. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u220	Thank you, Madam President. I want a re-voting procedure, as Mr. Grozdan Karadjov has just entered and has failed to vote. [[Laughter and excitement.]] And again, I would advise you to press the bell to call on Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber and vote, especially the social policy they are leading by the ABB. It's embarrassing only four people. It's a social law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u221	Five with Mr. Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u222	Five? So six more might try to get here. [[Laughter]] So, guys, gather round. It's not funny because people stay on the street. I appeal to you, gentlemen of GERB people remain on the street, so support this bill and do not vote abstention as pinched... Not to say what, because it's not right. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u223	It's a re-vote. Vote 88 MPs: 45 against 6, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. The next item in the weekly programme proposed by the parliamentary groups is: PROJECT FOR A DECISION NOT TO APPROVATE IMMIGRANTS FROM THE CLOSE EAST AND NERVER AFRICA, INCLUDING AND INNERING FROM THE SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC OF THE TERRITORY OF BULGARIA. There has been a report from the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. First from the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, Mr. Nunev, come in. I expect a summary of the report from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u224	♪ I can't believe on the draft decision on the non-discrimination of immigrants from the Middle East and North Africa, including refugees from the Syrian Arab Republic on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 454 02-22, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. At its meeting held on 18 March 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the draft decision on the non-discrimination of immigrants from the Middle East and North Africa, including refugees from the Syrian Arab Republic on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 454-02-22, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. The draft decision was presented by the MP Ilian Todorov. In his exhibition, the people's representative pointed out that the Republic of Bulgaria does not have the necessary capacity, abilities and financial opportunities for the admission of refugees, as the European Union refuses to support our country financially for their maintenance and the huge part of the expenditure remains entirely at our expense. From the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Radi Ignatov pointed out that Bulgaria, as a responsible member of the international community, has obligations and cannot remain indifferent to this humanitarian disaster. Our country is actively involved in all regional and global formats and initiatives by participating in the humanitarian actions of international organisations to assist the population affected by the conflict in Syria. Currently, the Council of Ministers has taken the legally established actions and issued the acts necessary to regulate migration flows across the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and to counter illegal immigration. By the Ministry of Interior, Asya Georgieva pointed out that the regulation of the Law on Asylum and Refugees was introduced as part of the national implementing measures transposing a Council Directive on minimum standards for granting temporary protection in cases of mass penetration of displaced persons and measures to maintain the balance between the Member States in the effort to adopt such persons and the effect of this admission. In the discussion the MPs took part: Stefan Dedev, Lubomir Hristov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The President of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order Atanas Atanasov summarized and expressed the opinion that the most serious arguments raised by the debates are the international commitments Bulgaria has made as a state and the signed number of international acts, treaties, conventions with which we have obligations in this direction. Following the debates, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Orders, without..... 10 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u225	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. We will now hear the report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u226	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision on the non-discrimination of immigrants from the Middle East and North Africa, including refugees from the Syrian Arab Republic on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 454-02-22, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. The draft decision proposes that the National Assembly assigns the Council of Ministers to adopt all necessary actions and acts to prevent immigrants from the Middle East and North Africa, including refugees from the Syrian Arab Republic on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, as our country does not have the necessary financial resources for the support of Syrian refugees. According to the motives of the importers, their invasion of the country creates a threat to national security, territorial integrity, life and ownership of the Bulgarians for generations ahead and is contrary to national legislation. The representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Interior presented and reasoned the views of their ministries, which do not support the draft decision. They said our country expresses deep concern about the sharp deterioration of the security situation and the humanitarian crisis in the Middle East region. The situation with Syrian refugees has been described as the biggest humanitarian disaster in recent years. It is dramatic not only for refugees, but also a serious threat to stability in the region. As a result of the civil war in Syria, more than 9 million Syrian citizens have left the country. Bulgaria has taken measures to tackle the refugee situation and improve accommodation conditions. The proposed project is also at odds with the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u227	What does the Commission propose, Mr Stoev?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u228	After the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights without...... 8 votes against................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-04.u229	Thank you. On behalf of the importer, there is no one to present the draft decision.. The MPs from the group of..................... are absent............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The debate is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. But before that, I still have to read you the draft decision, because there are no importers: Project! DECISION concerning the non-discrimination of immigrants from the Middle East and North Africa, including refugees from the Syrian Arab Republic on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Council of Ministers to adopt all necessary actions and acts to prevent immigrants from the Middle East and North Africa, including refugees from the Syrian Arab Republic on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Voting mode. 70 MPs voted: 11 against 39, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, we're down to less than a minute to 2:00. I'm adjourning the plenary session. Tomorrow a regular meeting will be held at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
