ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear Members, today is the first Wednesday of April, which is why our programme is formed by the proposals of the parliamentary groups under the order of art. 80, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First in this month is the Patriot Front Group. They propose and this will be the first item of the Programme for our work today: 1. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. Importers: Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. There is no proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. As point two will be considered the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka. 2. Project for a decision to break the treaty with the United States on US military bases on Bulgarian territory. Importers: Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. There is no proposal from the ABB Parliamentary Group. The GERB Parliamentary Group proposed: 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria is offered: 4. First vote on the Bill for interpretation of art. 22b of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. Importers: Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. There are no proposals from the parliamentary groups of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the Reformation bloc. These points are not to be voted on, they are to be entered by the Rules of Procedure in our Programme for today. Our schedule for Thursday and Friday: 5. Draft Decision on the Easter Holiday of the National Assembly for 2015. Importers: Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Atanas Atanasov, Valeri Simeonov and Borislav Borisov. 6. First vote on the Bill amending the Investment Promotion Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 7. First vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Political Parties. Importers: Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. Point 9 is intended for debate and voting as the first item for tomorrow's plenary session Thursday, second April: 9. Choice of Chief Inspector at the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. The procedure of the election is by rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 11 December 2014. Point two for Thursday is: 10. Election of the Chair and members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The procedure of the election is by rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 18 March 2015. 11. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on Compensation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Consortium IBERDROLA INGENIERIA Y CONSTRUCTION S. A. U and BELGOPROCESS NV. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 12. A bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America to improve compliance with international tax legislation and the implementation of FATCA. Importer: Council of Ministers 13. Draft Law on the ratification of the Garrison Maintenance Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Ministry of Defence, and the Supreme Chief Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe on the basic maintenance of the CIS module with the capacity to return, NATO Second Joint Battalion. Importer: Council of Ministers. 14. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 15. Annual report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2013. Importer: Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. This is a continuation of last week's Friday meeting, where we are in a debate mode. 16. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 17. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is the blitz control that will take place today, Wednesday, April 1st, from 12:00 with the participation of Prime Minister Borisov and the four Deputy Prime Ministers. The last point is: 18. Parliamentary control under art. 91-103 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly. He's at 11:00 on Friday. Please vote. Vote 162 MPs: for 145, against 4, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 two proposals were received from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. The first at the time is Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, who proposes that the bill for interpretation of art be included in the weekly program. 22b of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, submitted by Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs. The same proposal the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria does also in the order of art. 50, para. 8, but in view of the order of this parliamentary group in the arrangement of the Programme, on this basis will probably not reach the time today, on Wednesday for this point, so the proposal is admissible under para. 3. Mr. Stoilov, to defend your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You remember that last week the National Assembly included the same bill in its Programme. However, the time has not reached for its discussion and vote, and we are therefore renewing this proposal. We urge you to include it as item 5th of the weekly programme. This is practically the last opportunity for the National Assembly to clarify the content of the text in question so that about 300 thousand - in gross accounts, Bulgarian citizens who are subject to taxation can recover about 400 BGN. from his annual income. Bulgarian pensioners are scheduled to receive Easter allowances. These are, in fact, the working poor who are concerned with this bill. Let us make sure that obstacles from the tax administration which are unclear in the law do not prevent citizens who have these incomes, namely the non-taxable incomes under art. 13 of the Law, as well as any additional revenue for natural persons, such as interest or benefits and penalties resulting from late payments, shall not be affected by the incorrect application of this measure. Let no MP stay away from these people's problems. In this case, it is argued that the revenue in the budget is more than 800 million. lv. more than the beginning of this year, so several tens of million that this measure requires and has been provided for in the annual budget cannot prevent the implementation of this provision. I urge you to support this proposal by a large majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u3	Voting regime, fellow Members. They voted 165 MPs: for 70, against 59, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! As I saw on the dashboard, the Parliamentary Group of GERB and the Patriotic Front distance themselves from this proposal. Are the poor ones who have to be the most harmed? [[GERB lines.]] I urge you to support this proposal, because otherwise it means that you are working against these 300 000 Bulgarian citizens!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u5	300 people, not 300,000!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u6	Vote for this proposal because you will not be able to correct yourself on this issue further, because your distance from it essentially excludes these people from the possibility of submitting their tax returns until the end of the tax campaign and getting what is due to them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u7	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 167 MPs: for 71, against 63, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal for inclusion in our weekly program belongs to Mr. Vigenin, who offers in the order of art. 50, para. 3 as a point to include a draft decision on the need to deal with the EU's policy of sanctions in relation to the conflict in Ukraine. The draft decision was dated 17 December 2014, importers "Mihail Mikov" and a group of MPs. Mr. Vigenin, you're welcome to defend the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It's not the first time we've made this offer. Perhaps for the third time in the Chamber of the National Assembly we are trying to bring one of the key issues Bulgaria is currently facing, both economically and externally. Unclear to us, for several months now the majority of the National Assembly has been running away from a debate on this issue, although the results of the economic sanctions are clear, they are not achieving their political goal. The consequences for Bulgaria are clear and you can not help but realize the growing discontent in certain sectors of the Bulgarian economy. We believe that this is the place where we can discuss the possible steps by Bulgaria in foreign policy plan for the phased cancellation of sanctions and the possible compensatory measures or actions that can help the affected sectors of the Bulgarian economy. For you, it may not be very important for the Bulgarian economy in general the overall effect of sanctions will not be devastating, but for the people who produce agricultural production in Petrichko for example, or for the small hotels on the Black Sea coast it is something that ruins their business, their work, their future of a hundred percent! And if you do not agree to at least discuss issues if you are afraid to put these issues within the European Union and in relations with partners, let us at least see what your real proposals are about how people can be compensated, how to save certain businesses, certain sectors of the economy and how to stop losing jobs. You represent these people and be accountable to them.. present here your proposals and arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u9	We vote, fellow Members. They voted 165 MPs: 53, against 76, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, the Bulgarian people insist on reviewing these sanctions. In your constituencies, the columns of cars will increasingly become, which this year will experience severe consequences of sanctions. Agriculture has become clear these days that there will be pressure on dairy products from the European Union, which will further affect the difficult situation of Bulgarian agriculture. And you don't even want to debate this issue in the National Assembly! The foreign minister should come out and explain that the sanctions are something very wonderful and are good for the economy and the standard of the Bulgarian people! [[Greece and lines from GERB.]] Such behavior in no way...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u11	What does Stanishev think?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u12	Ivanov, carry the bags and keep your mouth shut. [[Laughter at BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u13	Mr. Mikov...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u14	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u15	Such behaviour in no way corresponds to the interests of Bulgarian citizens and the authority of the Bulgarian Parliament! Why are you afraid to put this issue and discuss it here in the National Assembly? Please, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u16	It's a re-vote. They voted 163 MPs: 54, against 78, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. Personal explanation Mr. Ivanov. So many MPs have the Ivanov family. [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u17	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, thank you for giving me the right to a personal explanation because I replicated Mr. Mikov. I guess he turned to me. And because he spoke on behalf of the political party he represents, it was quite normal for me to ask whether this opinion was agreed with the President of the Party of European Socialists. Because one thing is said in Brussels, something completely different is said in Bulgaria. [[Radio, applause from GERB.]] And it made sense not to confuse their electorate, to know what we were doing, who we were protecting. Mr. Mikov cannot go to Russia and say at the same time from Brussels that he supports the sanctions imposed by the European Union. [[Noise and lines.]] This misunderstanding must be smoothed out in this political force so that they can explain to their constituents what is happening. Otherwise, everything else, Madam President, leads us to believe that they themselves do not know what they are doing, and that is bad for our country because it means that the opposition does not have a single strategy. [[Noise and lines from Greb.]] That's why, Madam President, I replicated Mr. Mikov. Ah, Mr. Mikov, at the end I turn to you: carrying bags is one thing, singing in pubs is another. [[Radio, applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u18	Bills and draft decisions for the time from 25 March to 31 March 2015... Before that, Mr. Ermenkov, in the manner of conduct. We're listening, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm asking you to address me so there won't be any personal explanations after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u19	Madam President, honourable Members! You didn't need to remind me that it should be to you because I know who we should address, what order and what rules we have adopted, but I ask you, when a Member of the National Assembly comes out here to speak and to take a personal attitude, as stated in the Rules, he must take a personal attitude because he is affected and develop that thesis with which he was affected and what was not true in this thing. As far as I understood here, in what he said: he said that it was nothing bad to do, there was something worse than that, so he shouldn't have taken a personal explanation because it wasn't affected, but on the contrary, he was praised. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u20	Bills and draft decisions for the period from 25 to 31 March 2015: - Draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Regional Development, importer Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, leading committee on regional policy, public works and local self-government; - A bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Credit Institutions, importing Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs, is leading the Committee on Budget and Finance; - Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in 2014, importing the Supervisory Board of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control, is assigned to the Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism; - Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles importing the Council of Ministers, leading the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order; - Draft amendment and supplement to the Road Traffic Act, importing Svetlin Tanchev and a group of MPs leading the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications; - Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law on the State Employee, importer Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs, leading committee on legal issues; - A bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, an importer of Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs, is leading the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, will also be seen by the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order; - A bill for ratification of the Beijing Treaty on audiovisual performances, which the Council of Ministers, led by the Committee on Culture and Media, will also be seen by the Committee on Foreign Policy; - A bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, importing Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs, leading the Committee on Budget and Finance, will also be seen by the Committee on Culture and Media; - A bill for amending and supplementing the Law on Climate Change, importing the Council of Ministers, leading the Committee on Environment and Water, is also assigned to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds; - Report on the state of defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014, importing the Council of Ministers, is assigned to the Defence Committee; - A bill to supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure, which includes Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs; - Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, importing Cvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, has been assigned to the Committee on Legal Affairs; - Project for a decision regarding the Easter Holiday of the National Assembly for 2015, importers. suppliers Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Atanas Atanasov, Valeri Simeonov and Borislav Borisov; - Report on the Commission's action to protect against discrimination for 2014, the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, has been assigned to the Commission on Religions and Human Rights; - Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014, importer of the Republic, is assigned to the Commission on Religions and Human Rights and the Commission on the interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Education and Science; - Report on the activities of the Economic and Social Council, the Economic and Social Council is the importer, allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy; - Report on the Commission's activity of withdrawing illegally acquired property in 2014, the Commission is importing illegally acquired property, has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Two messages: Between 27 and 30 March 2015 the National Assembly received two materials from the National Statistical Institute, containing results from statistical research, as follows: the Business climate in industry, construction, trade and services in March 2015, the total index of producer prices in industry and indexes at producer prices on the domestic market for February 2015. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 31 March 2015, the National Assembly was granted its own initiative and adopted by the Economic and Social Council Resolution on Commission Communications on the Annual Growth Survey for 2015. The resolution adopted is part of the activities of the Economic and Social Council on the issues of the Europe 2020 Strategy and its implementation. The material is provided to the Standing Committees whose portfolio is embedded in the Resolution and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to point one: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON THE DELIVERIES OF PHYSICAL PERSONS. A report came in from the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. The bill is allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and the Budget and Finance Committee, from which no reports have been received. Mr. Ademov, please report the contents of your committee's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u21	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe under the Law amending and supplementing the Law for personal income taxes, No 454-01-53, submitted by the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs On 28 November 2014, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 25 February 2015 examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, with the importer Krasimir Karakachanov. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Elena Kremenlieva, Director of the Social Inclusion Directorate at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Tax Policy Directorate at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs. Petya Kopcheva from the Ministry of Finance. The bill was presented by the MP Dimitar Bayraktarov of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front. Its main goal is by introducing a tax relief of progressive nature to create a stimulating birth rate measure for the benefit of every correct taxpayer in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, raising minors. Local natural persons, including engaged as a sole trader, who did not receive monthly child support during the relevant year under the Family Aid Act for children, will benefit from tax relief for children by deducting from their annual tax base an amount of as follows: in one child, BGN 2400, in two children - BGN 4800, and in three or more minor children - BGN 6000. The importers stress that this will create an active mechanism for supporting and stimulating families who raise their children without aid from the state while working and contributing to the state budget. The Law is scheduled to enter into force from 1 January 2015. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy generally supports the legislative initiative, which would lead to an increase in the birth rate in Bulgaria, as well as the creation of better conditions for raising children, considering that tax reliefs for families with children are an important element not only of tax but also of demographic policy and support policy for children and families. The opinion submitted draws attention to the fact that the changes in the tax policy are discussed within the relevant budgetary year, which is why the submitted bill could not have achieved its objective in this fiscal year. The main remarks of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the bill are mainly in terms of its precision and scope. The exception to the use of tax relief is offered only for parents whose children are placed in a specialized institution, not taking into account the hypothesis that the child should be raised in alternative institutional forms of care, as well as the cases of accommodation outside the family in the case of established guardianship or custody. In view of the fact that the tax relief proposed in the Bill is disproportionate to the aid under the Family Aid Act for children, the fact that all families of relatives and relatives, foster families, as well as families raising children with permanent disabilities, are entitled to family aid to children under the Family Aid Act for children without an income test and thus remain outside the scope of the Bill. The bill also does not specify which types of monthly aid under the relevant Law is subject to the exemption and does not specify the period of receipt of the aid within the preceding year. Terminologically, the concept of parental rights is misused in relation to families of relatives and relatives and foster parents who are not holders of rights within the meaning of the Family Code. At the same time, foster parents are not listed as entitled persons. The Ministry of Finance does not support the proposal, paying attention to the fact that from 1 January 2015 two new tax benefits have been introduced for children in art. Art. 22c. 22d of the Law on personal income taxes, such as the budgetary effect on an annual basis of the introduced relief under art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The proposal for a significant increase in the amounts that persons may deduct from their annual tax base for one, two, three or more minor children should be in line with the country's tax policy, given that the increase in the amounts will result in a significant reduction in budget revenue of 260,8 million. BGN, which can be compensated only with an increase in the tax rate. In conclusion, the Ministry of Finance shall pay attention to the provision of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 of the Public Finance Act, under which a tax and social security contribution change should not be foreseen to enter into force earlier than the entry into force of the State Budget Act for the year in question. After the discussion and vote with results are closed:.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly not to support the First Voting Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Income Taxes of Natural Persons, No 454-01-53, submitted by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 28 November 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u22	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Opinions from the other committees on budget and finance and on children's, youth and sport issues are not available, so I give the floor to the importers. Mr. Bayraktarov, you're welcome to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, before I begin the presentation of this extremely important Bill, I would like to ask you to look to the left. Upstairs, on the balcony, there are young people and this bill is aimed at those who should create the future of Bulgaria, to those to whom the state has been turning its back for years. So I want you to look at them so that you can then have the morals and the motives to look at the young people of Bulgaria. This bill, honourable Members, was tabled by the Patriot Front Group as early as November 2014. [[Noise and lines.]] With him, we intended to create a new art. 22 in the Law on taxation of personal income, which provides for serious tax relief, first of all, for the most correct families in Bulgaria. In fact, these are the families, colleagues who fill the tax treasury with their taxes. [[Noise and lines.]] These are the families who are extremely responsible... If you please, Mr. Chairman, put in order, because we are talking about an important bill, and here there are conversations and interferences.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u24	Yes, you have reason. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to sit down and not make any noise in this House, so that the speakers can present their own ones calmly. Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. These are the families who take their children extremely seriously. These families who make sure that their children go to school regularly, are educated and then worthy citizens of the Bulgarian state and of our society are the ones who fill the tax treasury with their taxes. Naturally, if we have to consider the motives of the Ministry of Finance, which say that already in art. 22 there are reliefs imposed, I would like to inform you, colleagues, what these tax reliefs are, and it is good to know them and young people. Tax relief, honourable Members, for first child, second child, third child equals BGN 1.80. If we think it's BGN 1.80. We'll stimulate the birth rate if we think it's BGN 1.80. we will stimulate young people to stay in Bulgaria, this is a mission impossible. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] It is for this reason that, honourable Members, we have submitted this bill for another November, because it gives an answer to several very important questions. The first important issue, colleagues, is that there are 1 million in Bulgaria according to official statistics. 200,000. Children. Of that one million. 200,000. Children 800 thousand receive the so-called children's supplements. For the first child 35 BGN.; for a second child - BGN 50 However, four hundred thousand children do not receive these children's supplements. Here is the first big question because the state has imposed a threshold that such supplements can be obtained from families whose income does not exceed BGN 350. of a family member. However, the state and the relevant responsible institutions do not answer how many of the parents of the 800 thousand. Children, first of all, are unemployed, or they have no contribution to the treasury, to the budget with their work, with their tax refunds. That's the answer we don't have. We have an answer, however, that 400,000. children of responsible Bulgarian families, young people, so to speak, are limited, deprived of this opportunity to be supported. We don't have a second answer, colleagues. How many of these Bulgarian young families actually receive income from family member 355 BGN, 358 BGN, 360 BGN. Even? In other words,... 5, 6 or 10 BGN. above the threshold imposed. And how are they richer so they can't, by importing their taxes, get relief for their children from the state? There is no answer to that question. He wasn't given. Note that in recent years, honourable Members, more than a million and a half young people have moved out of Bulgaria. In fact, this bill of ours enables for the first time the state to change its approach, and this is the approach of encouraging young people to stay in their country and they to know that the state has turned to them with its face and not with its back. Dear colleagues, it is a fact that the largest, highest unemployment rate in Bulgaria is among the young people. It is they who generate the highest unemployment rate over 30%. And today, with this bill, we address these young people. Naturally, we have made precise and clear estimates that differ dramatically from what the Ministry of Finance has indicated, because this bill enables the incomes in the tax treasury to be increased in the first place. An opportunity is given to the state by educating itself to cope with the grey economy. It gives the state the opportunity to limit what many of us have been fighting for here Dear colleagues, I ask you today to support this Bill because it is for the benefit of Bulgaria, for the benefit of the Bulgarian state, for the benefit of the young people who are creating the future of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u26	Thank you. We're moving on to speeches. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u27	Dear colleagues, today our attention is given to the bill submitted by the Patriotic Front by Mr. Karakachanov and his colleagues, on 28 November 2014, concerning the amendment of tax law, which Mr. Bajraktarov explained in detail and which ultimately reflects on the expenditure and revenues in the budget. This Bill was not reviewed last year because it was tabled after the Tax Act was adopted at first reading, the Budget Act was adopted at first reading with parameters that correspond to each other. Now, although we are already at the end of the first quarter of 2015, colleagues are importing the bill, asking it to be implemented. I suppose, as we heard earlier and from the left, that the overexecution of revenue will be indicated as a source, which the Ministry of Finance reports for the first quarter, that is, a large part of the MPs already, albeit so early, are tempted to start redeploying a possible overexecution. However, I must say that, in principle, I am not the only one, this is the opinion of my colleagues, of the group of the Political Party GERB, we in principle support this bill. We support the policy enshrined in it. This is precisely the policy of responsible parenting, although we are against through tax relief to stimulate one or another activity, one or another sphere. Why? Because in Bulgaria, honourable Members, we have an extremely low income tax of 10%. In this low tax, it is very important to respect the neutrality of taxation, to respect the equality of all entities of this taxation. Because it is justice to pay according to your income in the same way. So these support policies must be made through expenditure. We have repeated this many times, and they are done through expenditure. In this case, however, responsible parenting policy cannot happen through expenditure, because it is about stimulating parents who work pay taxes, but do not fall under the income test for certain social benefits. I have to say, there is such support for children, and not a little. In the Law on Family Aid in art. 2 has 10 points that concern such support. I will tell you some of them: one-off pregnancy money, one-off child birth money, one-off money to raise twins up to 1 year old, one-off child support until one year old by a student mother participating in regular education, monthly child support until the end of secondary schooling, assigned aid to students, monthly child care aid up to one year old, targeted aid for free travel in rail, bus transport and so on, monthly supplements for children with permanent disabilities up to 18 years old and more. It's all about parenting, child support. This is all an element of demographic policy. Some of these aids are included on the basis of an income test, but others are not bound by this income test. Once again, I would like to repeat that responsible parenting, promoting parents who work, raising their children, caring for their education, for their future, cannot be stimulated only through the part of social assistance. It must be stimulated by relief from their income, because these are the people who pay taxes and who also provide the costs of other aid. In order not to be vain, you will say that Mrs. Stoyanova supports this bill. We cannot not support it because we, GERB party, made such a proposal and it is included in the Law on Income Tax of Individuals. And it is such, only that the difference lies in the size of this tax relief. Before we answer the question, is this size enough, is this size the first step, do we need to increase it now tenfold, we need to talk a little bit about demographic policy? It is an extremely important policy and we must realise that it is a horizontal policy. It must find its manifestation in each of the sectoral policies.. both in the social, both in the tax and in the field of construction, education and each of the other sectoral policies. We therefore very often believe that tax relief or child support is only those policies that lead the country to support children and parenthood, but we forget many other factors that affect birth rates and demographic policy. These are primarily jobs, sustainable jobs for young people. You, Mr. Bayraktarov, turned to the young people on the balcony. And you were right. But I also turn to them because before giving birth to children, before they receive incentives from the state to give birth to children, they must have good education, good specialization, sustainable workplace. Only then will they be ready to give birth to children. So jobs and the sustainability of these jobs for young people are of paramount importance. And they are achieved by economic growth, by stimulating investment, by reforming education, by specialization opportunities, by re-qualification, by learning throughout life all the activities that you and I here are debating and whose financial insurance is through the participation of the budget. But in addition to them, in order to have them, there must be a stable state, there must be financial stability, there must be a regulated and clear budget deficit. Another factor that influences are the conditions for raising children. They are not provided with just money. These conditions include the ability to raise your child calmly for up to two years. It's maternity leave. Bulgaria ranks first in Europe according to this indicator. So many opportunities for mothers to watch their children at home are nowhere to be provided. Children's cribs and gardens, children's kitchens, these are all important conditions to decide that young people will have first, second or third children, only that the shortage of nursery, gardens and kitchens is compensated through reconstruction and construction of new ones, which is also budgetary expenditure and budgetary policy. Preschool institutions, full - time school training, the mother to know that a child in the first, second and third grade, when his studies are completed by noon, can stay until she finishes her day of work. This is also a policy that is being pursued by our previous government and by the current government and is once again being provided with budget expenditure. Not at the last cost one important thing is for parents to know that they can provide their child with adequate education, have access to this education and be quality. We are now debating the Law on Education, where precisely such criteria are laid down for access and quality education. And again, ladies and gentlemen, they will be financed through the spending part of the budget. So I can keep explaining a lot more. It became clear that, in fact, demographic policy is a complex of measures and a large part of them go through budget spending, that is, they are the main source for all these activities and incentives. When we discussed the change and increase of taxes last year, including art. Art. 22c. 22 years, which we are talking about now, we should also be aware of the opportunities that Budget 2015 has to afford this funding, and it should be taken into account not only for the specific expenditure, but for all the costs aimed at in the area of which I have spoken. Returning to Budget 2014, which was actually the heavy legacy of the current Budget 2015. In 2014 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of On the other hand, a strong increase in spending. As a result, a high budget deficit. Soon Bulgaria did not have such a deficit of 3.7% of gross domestic product. Broke financial stability, which is recovering again with money from the budget. Danger for Bulgaria to enter the spiral of deficits, danger for Bulgaria to enter the procedures of the European Commission on excessive deficit. Budget 2015 had to be made conservative. He had to pay back the deficit within 3%. Moreover, we must show in the coming years that we are continuing financial consolidation and the deficit reduction. I will return to 2012, when the GERB government left a deficit of 0.45% of gross domestic product. And if this policy, these efforts, which were made in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, had continued, we would not be at a 3% deficit today. We would be safe at zero, and then we would have more freedom to conduct aggressive spending policies, including those that you are currently proposing. I will tell you that what GERB has proposed and what is currently in force in the Law on taxation of personal incomes in art. 22c, for such tax relief, albeit of a minimum size, of what we all wanted, we wanted to show two things. Firstly, that we are responding to the Programme that you have all supported in order to have a government today, namely to conduct a demographic policy that promotes responsible parenting. We wanted to show that this was the first step in this direction. And in the coming years, when state and budget opportunities allow, this first step will be extended. We have calculated that this first step for 2015 will cost the budget 21 million. lv. Against the backdrop of deficit and debt. What you honourable Members of the Patriotic Front are proposing now will cost the budget 260 million. lv. Unfortunately, we have to say that this budget 2015 is an unacceptable expenditure. Of course, we can accept it, we can increase the deficit with it, we can go over the 3%, we can take an additional debt that you all didn't support when we voted here the debt that financed the deficit. I'll stop there. I will only point out one more argument that this proposal is in violation of the Public Finance Act, in which it is clearly stated that all tax changes in all their elements must be made before the adoption of the State Budget Act for the year in question, because this is the basis on which the budget parameters are linked. Of course, all this is known to all MPs, including importers. More than that. Honourable Members of the Patriotic Front, on stimulating responsible parenting, we signed together under this point in the Programme, which you supported and thanks to which we now have a majority supporting the government. But you should know that this is not a one-day policy that we have to do today and whatever it takes to end it. It's a long-term policy. I would like to call on you to be responsible, although I cannot refrain from asking myself the question: why now, on 1 April 2015. You are raising this issue, provided it is clear that it cannot be supported? Perhaps that is why you are raising it to say that we do not support this policy, even though we have proved that this is also our policy. Therefore, I would ask you to use this instrument well, this tribune, tell your constituents how much you care about your Programme, how you will fight in order to implement your Programme in the part that lies in the general government Programme. And I will support you in that direction. Please be very responsible to the budget, to the state, to the budget parameters and the debt. Be responsible because the adoption of your Draft Law today for 2015 would violate the interests of public budget policy; it would violate the interests of many other policies that are financed and made through this budget; it would violate the interests of those actions that the government needs to carry out and finance from accidents, from disasters, from landslides, from floods. Be responsible to the state! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Stoyanova, you're a financier, and I'm a financier. However, you are not honored by the tribune to say untruths. First, the bill was tabled on 28 November, well before being seen at both first reading and second reading the State Budget Act. Second, this Bill and its expenditure have no impact on Budget 2015 as tax returns will be completed in 2016. Thirdly, dear Mrs. Stoyanova, in order to have expenditure in a budget, first of all, revenue must be realised and you know it very well. Moreover, this bill is aimed precisely at people who fill the budget. From your speech, which was not motivated in any way, I found out about a sum of 261 million. lv. I would like to tell you that there are members of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy here that the amount presented by the Ministry of Finance was made to powder, as it is not true. The amount that would cost the budget as a cost is between 60 and 70 million. And I'll tell you something else, a lot of the people that we would give the opportunity to use these tax benefits don't even file declarations. I mean annual tax returns, so this amount will probably be even lower. When we talk and say things on this so important bill, we have to say them really and objectively. Again, thanks precisely to the responsible behaviour of the Patriotic Front, the Finance Minister reported 820 million more revenue in just the first quarter. Due to the persistent and responsible behavior on the Patriotic Front, mass checks began to close the fuel smuggling taps, cigarettes, alcohol, increased collection rates of excise goods. That's the responsible behavior. I would ask the question: why, over the last ten years, these revenue increases have been gone and since the Patriot Front has been here with its responsible behaviour, this is already happening. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Now that's responsible behavior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u30	Mr. Bayraktarov, I listened and 40 seconds more time I gave you. It was really important to hear what you said. Second line? I won't. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Bayraktarov, three points in your speech, which I would like to respond to. First of all, I would like to tell you that your bill was tabled on 28 November, and the Tax Act was viewed at first reading on 19 November in this House. So purely technological, dealing with the Rules, that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u32	What about tax laws?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u33	These are the tax laws of November 19 were adopted at first reading. Since it was not imported then, it cannot be included in this tax law. Between first and second readings they could make their proposal, including the Commission, but anyway it is technology and we will not argue about it. Secondly, in terms of revenue. I anticipated what you said from the stand, because before that I heard it from the left, now probably from other parliamentary groups sharing the left idea, let's spend what we have earned and what we haven't earned, there may be proposals in the direction: see, here we have 800 million. Firstly, I would like to return you to the Public Finance Act and tell you that if the 2015 State Budget ends with a re-execution, if we want part of this over-execution of the revenues to be spent through expenditure, we must resolve this in this House by amending the State Budget Act 2015 and say where to go for these revenue for expenditure. What the Public Finance Act envisages, and which I personally support, I believe that our party, as a right-wing party, will support it, too, for the entire overrun to go for a reduction in the budget deficit. We cannot continue with budget deficits, as would happen if we accepted your proposal, as you do not wish to support debts to cover these budget deficits. As far as the analysis is concerned, it's the Ministry of Finance. It says 261 million. Where is your analysis and impact assessment? There is none, although it is written in the Rules of Procedure that any proposal must be supported by such an analysis, a budget impact assessment, not only on the budget, but also on all activities and groups that would affect this budget. And thirdly, lastly, thank you very much for your responsible behavior and I hope you have it again. However, taking credit for your conduct overexecuting revenue seems to me, to put it mildly, to say the least. Young people upstairs listen to us and can judge. There is such overrun of revenue, and it is the result of the measures that this government, supported by us, leads consistently. I hope that what has been achieved in the first months will be maintained and increased in the coming months, but this is yet to be seen. Of course, without taking it as a pickle, I just want to remind you that your group supports the government, but has repeatedly pointed out that it does not participate in it. Therefore, she could not have attributed the government's successes in this direction. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u34	Mr. Turnovallisky has given a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u35	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! From BSP left Bulgaria we will support this proposal, although when colleagues from the Patriotic Front voted our proposal to recover the tax on the working poor, they obviously did not look to the left to see these young people, some of whom may also have such incomes or their parents have such incomes. Colleagues, we must be principled, and when we speak from this place, we must be consistent. We cannot fail to support this proposal, because we do not agree in any case that stimulating responsible parenting is done with two levs per month. Currently under law, Bulgarian citizens can teach on average two leva per month to stimulate responsible parenting. This is the amount with which we implement these horizontal demographic policies. Between the two readings, we will make proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u36	If the bill passes, it may not be accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u37	If it does, of course, it does.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u38	Please don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u39	I'm counting on this bill to pass, after all, you're partners in this parliament, in this government, so... Colleagues from the Patriotic Front could have said all this and December, when these amendments were introduced to the Law on taxation of personal incomes. I do not know for what reasons you were not actively involved in the debate and did not support us. However, I say again: We will support your proposal, because this is the proposal aimed precisely at the poor workers, too, except for the people who listed Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u40	On the contrary, they are excluded.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u41	No, they're not off.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u42	Colleagues, please no dialogue between you. These are things that experts in the committees should have made clear in the relevant area.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u43	Yeah, this is not the place to have an expert debate. This was supposed to happen on a committee. But everything you said from the Patriotic Front is true and we support it. But we had to talk about it, colleagues, December, when we voted on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Income Tax for Individuals. You can see right now that Mrs. Stoyanova is attacking you with the fact that she has a Public Finance Act and this is not the time. About whether there's enough money. Since there could be 850 million overruns in three months, by the end of the year, the amount would appear to be far greater if that were true. But apparently the government doesn't believe much in what they only release to the media as information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u44	Any lines to Mr. Turnover? I won't. To speak, Mr. Honest Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u45	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to change the tone a little and talk with less tension on this subject, as it is really important and in no case is the subject of any populism. I think it's been presented extremely seriously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u46	Mr. Vesselinoff, I'm sorry. Before you get to the point, take out your card. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to inform you that on the balcony of the National Assembly is the President of the Croatian Sabor, who is on an official visit from 30 March this year. [[All rise and turn to the balcony greet the guests with applause.]] We've had extremely meaningful meetings with Mr. Lekko and the delegation. They had a meeting with the President of the Republic, with the Prime Minister. In an honest friendly dialogue, we informed each other about the work of the parliaments of the two countries. Let us welcome them to the National Assembly. [[Applause.]] You may proceed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u47	This is the second time I've started. Dear colleagues, perhaps when we approach this House as arguments and counter-dovoids, numbers and numbers, the important thing is not to forget, in fact, why we have entered here. It is, I think, to make policy. In fact, the numbers have to serve the policies. We mustn't forget what's in the lead. For me, the main thing to plan costs should be the problems of our nation. The nation's problems start with the demographic problem. Realistically, we are the fastest disappearing nation in the world. I'm ruling out two or three island countries that are 50,000 each. the human population. We're one of the country's escape champions. Last year, we had the happiness of Syria to overtake us in mortality and emigration, as 1 million. The man escaped from this country. We should try not to maintain any structures that obviously do not work, but to rethink the approaches. I think that's a step in that direction. There is nothing left in politics that harms family and family planning. There is nothing left in politics that supports people who work. It's just a responsible policy. There's no need for labels. In this sense, perhaps we should ask ourselves the question: " What do we do with the social policy we conduct? " On the one hand, we have an uncontrolled birth rate that we continue to support with social benefits, however small, however miserable these marginal layers may be. On the other hand, we have a working majority that does not feel the state support and says: "Yes, and for my child there is no one. We are even talking about the symbolic gesture of the state because 20 leva. It's not much per month. Of course, they are not a mockery of two leva or one-eighty, as it is more precisely to be considered a month, but they are still some kind of commitment, yet they are a request that we appreciate these people. In this spirit I believe that we are unanimous with Mrs. Stoyanova, and with colleagues from GERB, because they generally introduced a similar project. They brought it in maybe five or six days before us, which is why he joined the tax laws, while ours stayed out of this package. This is the reason why we are actually talking in the Transitional and Final Provisions of 2015. In the spirit of understanding, okay, we agree to accept 2016 as a starting point for these preferences. Moreover, we agree that some of the texts in the bill can be improved between first and second readings. The question is to ask the direction that Bulgaria also cares about these children from these families who work, earn income and have over 350 BGN. income in the family. The other, of course, if we were populists, we would simply bring here to fall this income criterion for receiving child benefits, as we have, by the way, repeatedly asked the question and answered us: there is no money. That's why you're saying there's no money for tax breaks. Actually, there's no need for much analysis from the Ministry of Finance. Four hundred thousand kids don't get it. Multiply 400,000 times 20, then times 12, and you'll see that it's a sum of less than 90 million. Indeed, the state has many support levers, there are many payments aimed at young families. Unfortunately, the many of those who are targeting this type of parents are characterized by the word "society" once. That is, one-time childbirth assistance and the like. It was said that young people should have a good job before giving birth and so on. Yes, all this is important, but in fact the main thing is that young people should have the desire to give birth. It is shown by the state's attitude towards this process. At least on our part, that's how we can show it. In this regard, this bill is aimed only at supporting the so-called class in Bulgaria, the people who work, who are educated, socialized and so on. I think that it should not be the subject of any demarcation lines and we should say, "We are more right or we are pioneers" or "Others are retrograde." Let us give ourselves a hand, let us accept it at first reading, correct those texts that need correction, make the agreement that this is about the next budget year, if this is so important at this time, and let us know that we have set the direction from which there will really be some indexes in the years and a serious debate on the issue of Family income taxation, which we think is working in every European country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. - What's the line? Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u49	Mr. Veselinov, I have not felt tension in the speakers so far, including in my speech, as you believe, and I absolutely do not want anyone from...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u50	You can't hear it, Mrs. Stoyanova. Louder!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u51	I'm saying that I didn't feel any tension from the speakers so far, and I think that there is no such tension, and there is no pressure, because we have all actually declared that we are for this demographic policy. However, populism is also not good to have, and I hope that none of the parties will show it, although spending the overrun of the quarterly budget is now a living populism. You were right that the figures should only justify the policies and not guide them, and that is so that the figures should justify them in order to decide how much a policy can be achieved this year, next year or in the following years. As for the working majority paying taxes, I would like to assure you, Mr. Veselinov, that in addition to this tax relief, this working majority is much more excited about the opportunity to send its child to a nursery or a garden, the opportunity to use children's cuisine, the opportunity to have full-time school and pre-school education, the opportunity to have accessible and quality education and these activities should not be overlooked. As for the fact that you are ready for the law to enter into force from 2016, this is mandatory, it cannot enter in 2015 in any way, because in the end there is a Public Finance Act and other laws to be respected. You believe that if we accept it now, we will set the direction. Mr. Veselinov, the direction is set. Article 22c, giving these reliefs and art. 22 years of relief for parents for disabled children are a fact [[the President signals that time has run out]] . The direction is set. And let's have this debate when we look at tax laws in the fall, when the budget forecast is ready, when the forecast for...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u52	Mrs. Stoyanova, time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u53	...the revenues and opportunities of Budget 2016. This will mean that you are not populists.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u54	For the second line there is the word Mr. Vladislav Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm taking a line regarding Mr. Veselinov's statement. I was impressed by your thinking towards policies... what policies we are making in Parliament. I think whether you think it's right that politics is that everyone should get relief or have some social gain in this country. If we think this way, I don't think we'll get far. I'll just tell you that in the Law on Income Tax of Individuals.. look at it, however, there are many policies there that have been made, there are many untaxable incomes...................................................................................... 13 of para. One to 27. It's an untaxable income. There are then tax benefits in art. 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 22a, 22b, 22c, 22d. It's all politics. However, what you are proposing at this stage is that you want such a sharp rise, more than 10 times, of a relief, but with the same thinking you can also ask for a minimum wage of 10 times. So let us think wisely and clearly and fit into what is possible. And you even know that such a relief 10 times up cannot be accepted. We comment here that this is not the time to accept, but, nevertheless, if you have sober reasoning and think normally, I hope that there is no populism in your proposal, there is no way you can make a proposal to increase this rate 10 times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u56	There's no third line. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u57	Honourable Members, I would like to strongly not accept the approach of nagging how we want to spend the surplus... that is, over the collected money, we do not yet have an surplus of Budget 2015. Even if it is accepted in this form, even if it comes into this form as of 1 January 2015, the Law will have a real effect from 2016, because then we submit our tax returns, respectively then we use the reductions and, as they say, the reduced collection of the fissc will occur in 2016. So this is a manipulation that has been skillfully spoken several times. I insist on debunking her. Furthermore, I do not want everyone to be relieved, I want them to receive relief from those which the state believes should be supported and these are the young families of working parents. I don't think we should have an argument about this. The relief that you think will dramatically increase 10 times is now equal to a pie and one sucker per month for a child. Can that be a relief, I ask? If we're not ashamed, let's leave it the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u58	Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow Members, many true things have been said here, there has also been a lot of emotion in some of the speeches, but indeed the arguments that have been pointed out and supported this bill, and that this is now not allowed by the Public Finance Act are true and I will agree with them. But, look, fellow Members, here we have a really, in fact, right-hand measure that is inherent in one right-hand rule. That is, we are looking for a way to encourage working people, to show the state that it really takes into account their efforts and that it creates incentives precisely for those groups of people who are an engine of the economy. This is an absolute right-hand measure, and I think you'll all agree with me. That now being introduced in the first quarter of the machine is obviously difficult, but nothing prevents us from the next budget from taking into account the strong arguments of colleagues from the Patriotic Front and if really implementing the budget allows it, to adopt a similar measure, even to adopt an even stronger measure. What is offered concerns all these people, a huge part of them work and free professions, which, for example, by breaking their car in a hole, is said: there is no country. They go, they pay, they fix their car, and then they think about why instead of not having a hole they get a speed limit on the highways. At the same time, the price of the wines remains the same. These are the same people who, when they go to a hospital and see the huge tails, go down to the cash register, pay their bills, just because they're forced and unable to wait evenly with everyone else, because, for example, the employer let them go for an hour and have to go back to work under fear of dismissal. And they say to themselves, "There is no country." In order to stop really in a similar way to feel all these people, again I tell you, this is very much about the engine of the economy, indeed the state must show respect for them. Indeed, such measures as the proposed ones show such an attitude, and I think that, in principle, this type of measures should be supported. Bear in mind, fellow Members, that drawing up the state budget is not a simple accounting to take money from here and put it there, and indeed with such measures can achieve a much stronger effect on the revenue side of the budget, because, as well as a fellow member from the Patriotic Front pointed out, many people, saying there is no state, unfortunately refuse to submit a tax return, which means they do not pay taxes. Seeing the changed attitude of the state, of a right-wing government to them, it is normal for them to really consider whether it is wrong to fulfil their obligations and to submit their tax return and to use the preferences already provided. What I'm going to finish with, about the same time as my colleagues at the Patriotic Front, I have tabled proposals for amendments to the same law concerning donation. Again, something really like a total amount infinitely small in the state budget, but as an attitude and as a gesture to the people who donate to treating sick children is something they will appreciate. So I'm really offering you: let's think about it when the time comes for all these measures and in a proper way to put them in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u60	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. For the first line, there isn't. Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To your attention are amendments to the Law on taxation of personal incomes. Out of doubt is the fact that policies related to supporting families with children must be supported and supported by the budget opportunities of all governments so far. Here, however, the issue posed by fellow Members of the Patriotic Front is quite different and must be referred to the overall philosophy of tax policy that has been followed in recent years. What is characteristic of tax policy over the past more than 10 years is that it is expressed in low rates of direct taxes, on a broad tax base with little preferences. Of course, in 18 Member States of the European Union, there are tax preferences, but when we look at the overall philosophy of the tax system in the individual Member States, we can see that where there are preferences, tax rates are significantly higher than those in Bulgaria. In this sense, the examination of such a preference, which is generally supported by most Bulgarian citizens, must be in the context of the overall philosophy of tax policy, and tax policy has not changed significantly over the last more than 10 years, because in order to assess a tax system, it must be at least 10 or 15 years to proceed to correction if necessary. Dear colleagues, a total income tax is the third most important of taxes collected by revenue agencies in the country. This year's income on this item of the tax system is close to 2 billion. 200 million. BGN, which means that if we adopt the measure offered by the colleagues from the Patriotic Front and if we accept the assessment of the Ministry of Finance that it is an effect on the fiscal policy of 260 million, this means that one tenth of the revenue must be compensated in some other way. Here I would like to say a few words about this thorny enthusiasm associated with those over 800 million overruns of revenue in the first quarter. My fellow Members, there are at least three reasons that lead to this overexecution. First of all, the estimated 2 billion less for the entire year revenues in the State Budget Act. Secondly, in the first quarter of 2014, a large part of the structural-determining enterprises in Bulgaria did not work for different reasons. I refer here to the oil refinery Lukoil, which, at the beginning of last year, for several months, was not working and there could be no revenue. The third thing about revenue, which is extremely important, is that the tax credit was restored at the end of last year so that higher revenue can be reported at the beginning of this year. So let's see at the end of the year what the revenues will be and then let's talk about overexecution, and the hope of all of us is to re-execute these budget revenues. I would also like to say a few words about the attitude of material incentives in what is said in the Law on the taxation of personal incomes, what colleagues from the Patriotic Front offer. Not only material incentives, but complex policies related to families with children can help improve demographic characteristics. Many elements of the overall policies that are related and have a bearing on improving demographic characteristics and demographic indicators have been said. I would like to stress that, along with material incentives, the provision of social services to families with children is also very important, because without adequate social services, without extending the possibilities of combining parenting with work, there is no way to think about adequate support for families with children. I will also say a few words about the widely proclaimed responsible parenting. Dear colleagues, I definitely do not accept that responsible parenting is linked only to the income of families, because there are many families with low incomes who are responsible parents, and vice versa, many high-income families, with high standard of living, who are far from able to fall into the definition of responsible parents. So we need to be very careful when we talk about responsible parenting. One of the biggest problems of the proposed bill is the exclusion of families who receive aid under the Family Aid Act for children. Honourable Members, one of the main principles of the Tax Procedure Code is the principle of equal treatment of taxable persons. Where are we going to exclude from this tax obligation those who receive aid during the year under the Family Aid Act for children? Did you know that there are persons in this group who are parents of people with disabilities who receive monthly benefits without income criteria? Did you know that families of relatives and relatives receive benefits under the Family Aids Act for children without an income criterion? Did you know that there are families with one living parent who have children who receive family benefits for children with no income criteria? By what logic do you exclude these persons from the support within the meaning that you propose? All these issues are not clear enough in the proposed bill. This was said at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. The colleagues from the Patriotic Front, members of the Commission, do not accept the argument of the Ministry of Finance that it is a financial effect of BGN 260 million with the proposed measures. The Ministry of Finance and their representatives said their information is based on indicators from the National Statistical Institute and we have no reason to believe that this 260 million. lv. are the adequate amount, moreover, that the representative of the Patriotic Front in the Commission then said that according to their calculations it was 28 million, and now here from the parliamentary tribune said that it was 60 million. lv. I ask: in what way do you calculate the fiscal effects? Once 28 million, twice 60 million? So be good to suggest where this $ 260 million deficit will be financed from. lv. In conclusion, honourable Members, no one in this Chamber, and no one in the Bulgarian society, denies the support of families with children, including the measures proposed, but this needs to be done within the framework of the overall budgetary policy when the parameters of the consolidated fiscal programme are clear when the revenues are clear, when the expenditure is clearly set, so that we can have a more adequate assessment of what is proposed. Last but not least, we need once and for all the National Assembly to clarify for ourselves an extremely important question: would we prefer low flat taxation, or would we prefer another kind of preferential taxation? This is the important question to be answered.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u62	Any lines to Mr. Ademov? Mr. Valeri Simeonov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u63	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I have a few disagreements with your statement, Mr. Ademov. First of all, I don't think and I don't approve of the theoretical style of expression and argumentation. I think he's better suited for academic halls. At the moment, as in principle, we are here to solve the practical real problems of society. This is about discussing a bill, not analyzing social assistance and its organisation in Bulgaria as a whole. I disagree with the values you and Mrs. Stoyanova also use with the 260 million in question, as they were a judgment of the Ministry of Finance. We are also entitled as MPs to carry out the relevant studies and to have our assessment and values set out. It is by no means appropriate, in my opinion, that the judgment of the Ministry of Finance should be absoluteized, that it should be seen as more legitimate and more relevant, at least because, so far, in these four months, we have encountered quite a number of major differences in the judgments of the Ministry of Finance. The last time was the debt that was supposed to be 16 billion, and suddenly it turned out to be 14 billion, so leave us alone, do not question the right both you and Mrs. Stoyanova to have an assessment, but we are generally open and agree on a more precise calculation of what obligations to the budget would bring about the adoption of this proposal. The third disagreement with your statement is that you have described our project as an enthusiasm for the distribution of this 800 million. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Those were your words. There is no such thing, I would like to remind you that, as was said in Mr. Iskren Veselinov's statement, this bill was introduced on November 28th, so we did not know if there would be an excess in the first quarter. These are our disagreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u64	Second line? I won't. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is obvious that we cannot not trust the institutions in Bulgaria, because the mistrust that exists in the Bulgarian society of the institutions is an extremely serious problem, but this is a completely different topic. Moreover, your representatives in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy said it was about a fiscal effect. Now here in the parliamentary group you are talking about a completely different fiscal effect. Then it was 28 million, now you're talking about 60 million, and I asked quite normally: which of the requested numbers is true? Trusting the Ministry of Finance is only natural to me. Next, when it comes to what you are offering the most important thing, for a first and second child, according to the benefits offered by you, the value will be for a first child 20 BGN, for a second child 20 BGN. and for a third child - BGN 16 and in your program and in the program of the government you say: "Intensive support of the trident model." Why, according to your proposal, will there be less relief for a third child than for the first two? That is the question that needs to be answered.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u66	Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part? Here's your speech, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I do not understand is it not clear the public representation that there has been a severe demographic crisis in Bulgaria for 25 years? Is it not clear that in the past years, people's meetings and governments have not taken almost no measures to solve this huge problem? Isn't it high time that one step at a time these problems were solved? When people from different parliamentary groups speak here, including the DPS, who dealt with this problem in the previous cabinet, well, come out and honestly tell us where the problem is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u68	Mr. Angelov, you probably want a time extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u69	An extension of time, yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u70	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u71	Which families do not have children in Bulgaria? They have no children the families of educated and working parents, that is, if the Bulgarian government, the Bulgarian National Assembly wants to solve the demographic problem or reduce it, should be stimulated precisely those people who are responsible, working and educated, educate their children, send them to school and these children will be the future of Bulgaria. If we continue this way, in 50 years the Bulgarians will probably be 1 million on our land. How long are we gonna keep talking? We're talking about helping with 20 leva in some way. A child's month. What if the state does not spend money on national security, national interests and Bulgarian children, for what should I spend money? Tell me! We are talking about whether it was 28 million, whether it was 60, whether it was 90 or 260, but if this tendency to reduce the population in Bulgaria continues, which investor will come to invest in a country where consumption decreases? If it is 260 million, as you believe it is the assessment of the Ministry of Finance, then they will enter back into the Bulgarian economy, which will stimulate its development. Why are we talking about things we're all aware of? Now we're trying to get around the vote! We are all in favour, we all support, in principle, a very good idea, in this direction we have to go, well, support it in the first vote. There will be a second vote if there is something that does not meet your judgment or views will be changed. Support it, show that you are responsible MPs because Bulgaria, the Bulgarian people and the future of Bulgaria do not have time. Children disappear from Bulgaria and are not born. What are we waiting for?! I don't understand what we're waiting for. Some say it was populism. What is populism that has a severe demographic crisis in Bulgaria? Is that populism? It's a fact! A fact we all know. What's there to wait for?! Instead of taking step by step and somehow reducing this effect of the demographic crisis, because I am not sure that we will be able to solve it to the end, we are starting to seek excuses, to talk about what privileges the children had. What privileges do children have? Each of you has family, friends, you know people's incomes. What privileges do children have in Bulgaria?! Why do we talk like that? It is important that we really support this policy. This is not about whether it was tabled by the Patriotic Front, by GERB or any other parliamentary group, it is about the direction that the Bulgarian National Assembly and the Bulgarian governments should follow ahead. It's the truth! Everything else we're talking about, in order to get away from a vote or something, it's just not right. It is high time for Bulgarian MPs to understand that the failure to resolve the demographic crisis will result in Bulgaria disappearing. And that's a fact! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u72	- What's the line? Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Perhaps the colleague had become a little more keen, I would like to give his speech, but many privileges have the children in Bulgaria, a colleague, and now I will read them to you. If you think they don't have privileges, cancel them, but that's not true. I'll tell you. There is a National Strategy for Demographic Development and there are included the following incentives for birth and raising children as privileges, because I do not say that this is being done. You are right that there is a demographic breakdown in Bulgaria: there are tax reliefs for families with children; money benefits and social benefits for birth and raising children up to 3 years old; credit preferences for young families; access to free consultations and medical care for pregnant women, mothers, newborns; taking up child support from poor families in children's and preschool institutions; free dining; support with textbooks, clothing and others, with tax benefits being only one of the incentives to not tell you about them, in the Law on taxation of the income of natural persons from art. 18 to 22 years. Bulgaria has many preferences and reliefs for children. I am not convinced that what you are chasing, i.e. the 10 times increase of 200 BGN. At 2,400 leva. for an underage child, from BGN 400. At BGN 4,800. in two minor persons and from 600 BGN. £6,000. In three and more underage children, something will happen. Do a sociology and ask one person with decent income, because you do not address these people if you give him 20 leva. In a month, his family's gonna have three more kids? That's bullshit! This supplement you want has nothing to do with stimulating birth rate. If what you're talking about is true, to which circle, to which layer and to which people are you looking to get some incentive with this relief? They won't get anything, I'm sure! Because these people don't care about giving them the 20 levs a month to make more children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u74	Second line? I won't. I expect something to be shared about the personal example on the subject, but there are no speeches in this direction. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! The personal example will be given in a month or two.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u76	No, this isn't about you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u77	Mr. Nikolov, I don't think I made a statement in order to abuse someone or to say they were full of shit. I don't think that's right. When talking about the demographic crisis, it's good to make arguments, not to blame the man who said he was full of shit. What you're saying is 20 BGN. It's going to increase, it's now BGN 1.80. And what's BGN 1.80?? What we helped with is £1.80. Those parents, the educated and the workers? I'm not saying that they're going to give birth to 10 or 15 children, but I'm saying that families who have children at the moment who are educated and working and don't receive children's supplements are being harmed. They're discriminated against. The people who pay taxes and are engines of the Bulgarian economy, these are the people of the middle class, they are discriminated against. Why should there be discrimination against incomes in Bulgaria? Why?! They're both parents, and they're parents. One has children, the other has children! Colleagues, I suggest that you support the Bill to really show that the Bulgarian National Assembly is responsible for this problem and step by step will work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u78	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov. You have 25 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u79	You've already taken me four seconds. [[Relations from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Mr. Chairman, thank you. My personal example equals three children! [[Applause.]] The second thing I wanted to say. Mr. Ademov, mathematics is an exact science, I said numbers for a reason. So when you divide 260 million into 400,000 children who don't get those supplements, you'll see that I was absolutely right. The joy is that mathematics is an exact science. Moreover, honourable Members, in the last few seconds I would like to tell you. Mr. Slavov, you are right, first of all, this is a right measure because it is aimed at these young people who work, fill the treasury and create jobs. So I hope, indeed, colleagues, that you are aware of these important elements in this Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u80	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Are there any other statements? I won't. I will ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs to vote. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Law on personal income taxes with importer Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. Vote 156 MPs: 55 against 3, abstention 98. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Bayraktarov, please come in for a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u81	Mr. President, I would like a re-vote, as many Members of Parliament have failed to vote. Moreover, I understand that many of the colleagues who supported the decision in principle did not understand that Mrs. Menda Stoyanova said that the decision was generally supported. So I would advise you to support this proposal in principle. It is good for the Bulgarian economy, for young families and I am convinced that you, colleagues, will understand and support the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u82	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Rethink mode, please. Vote 174 MPs: 67 against 2, abstention 105. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u83	Moving on to the next point in the order of art. 58, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and this is the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka. PROJECT OF A DECISION TO DELIVER THE AGREEMENT WITH THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICAN STATES ON THE AMERICAN MILITARY BASES OF BULGARIAN TERRITORY. Importers are Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, on 27 October 2014. Who will present the Project for Solution? Mr. Siderov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u84	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention a proposal of ours, which is not only very important as a topic, but also up-to-date, as in a few days the term of this treaty or agreement will expire. I propose, in advance, that those who will take part in the debate should not delve into it, not get stuck in the terminology, whether it is a contract or an agreement. This is an Agreement between Bulgaria and the United States of America, and I stress that it will use four military bases in Bulgaria, signed by the Bulgarian government on 28 April 2006. It is Ratified on 26 May here in this Chamber, by the Bulgarian Parliament. As you can see, the deadline expires in a few days. It is therefore important that today we decide and express our position whether we want to continue using Bulgarian military bases from the US military machine for free, absolutely free of charge. On April 28, 2006, a Defence Cooperation Agreement was signed between the Government of Bulgaria and the United States in Sofia. Under the signed Agreement, the country grants for use by the US armed forces four Bulgarian military bases on our territory free of charge, namely: a polygon in Novo Selo for ground forces training; the air base in Bezmer, the air base in Graf Ignatievo and the warehouse base in Aytos. The agreement was signed by then US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Bulgaria's Foreign Minister Ivaylo Kalfin, currently also minister in this government. On the day of the signing, the only political force in the country in the face of Ataka Party organized protest rallies and marches, expressing its position for the failure of foreign military bases on Bulgarian territory. The agreement was ratified by the Bulgarian Parliament on 26 May. Then, the entire Parliamentary Group of "Attack" voted against. Here we are obliged to note that all parties that participated in the then coalition supported this Agreement and practically approved it. There is a very long exhibition given to your attention for various American military bases in the world. There are hundreds of them in the world. For all of them, the United States pays rent. There are many examples of how residents of individual cities, for example in December 1997, residents of Okinawa, Japan, with a referendum rejected the idea and plans for building an American military base in Okinawa. The Japanese government has taken into account and, although they are partners with the United States and in solid partnership, Japan has refused this base. Here I would like to point out that the United States government pays rent for hundreds of military bases, these are 7,000 buildings, 476 structures, 367 linear structures and over 1 million. Three hundred thousand. Dka land where military bases are located. These are bases not only outside the U.S., but also in the U.S. territory. For all of them, the United States pays rent over 10 billion. US dollars are paid annually for such bases. Only to Bulgaria the poorest country in the European Union, the United States does not pay a penny for the use of the four bases. I can give an example of one of the bases in Germany, only for 2011. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. The dollar, and so on. There was a huge lie when they signed the Agreement with the United States that it would be invested in infrastructures and other sites. This was not true: no investment in anything in Bulgaria was made by the US. The bases themselves, which are used, are supplied, including mineral water from the United States. No work or economic activity for the Bulgarian population in the region worked. The question now remains what we are doing today. Nine years after the signing of this damaging Bulgaria Agreement, we are obliged as a national representation to take the attitude and accordingly to order the government to implement it. The solution must also be in line with today's current geopolitical situation. In 2006, there was no military tension and war in a very close country such as Ukraine. There was no such global geopolitical tensions, there was no clash between the great powers of the United States and Russia as we see it today. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we see something very dangerous: military equipment is being landed in Bulgaria. Only our media "Alpha TV" showed footage of heavy American tanks delivered at Zimnitsa Station. We have formed a question for the Minister of War and for the Prime Minister what is this technique, how many it is, what it will serve and why it is necessary right now, when Bulgaria is called by the Pentagon In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote on this text to come on the agenda, to consider and to decide today whether to terminate the Agreement with the United States on the use of the four military bases, or to continue to do more damage to Bulgaria and to sharpen the political and military environment in the region. Thank you for your attention. I look forward to your sensible state-of-the-art responsible decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u85	Thank you. We've exchanged order while we're in charge of how this Project Decision has been discussed. It was initially assigned to the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs and then reassigned by the President of the National Assembly of the Committee on Foreign Policy. I will therefore now give the floor to a representative of the Committee on Foreign Policy Management for an opinion. I understand that without the distribution of the draft decision, there is also an opinion of the Defence Committee, so if Mr. Mihov wants to present it as such or as his position. Then we'll move on to the other speeches. Let the Foreign Policy Committee now present its opinion on the draft decision submitted by Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! "COMMODITY" of the Committee on Foreign Policy on a decision to break a treaty with the United States on US military bases on Bulgarian territory, No 454-02-23, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. At a regular meeting held on 17 December 2014, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the draft decision to break the treaty with the United States on US military bases on Bulgarian territory submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. The reasons for the draft decision were presented by the MP from the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Attack" (Ilian Todorov). Representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence presented the views of the relevant ministries on the draft decision. In the so proposed wording of the draft decision, it is necessary to state that it is not available with the United States on US military bases on Bulgarian territory. An Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Defence Cooperation is concluded. The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Defence Cooperation constitutes an international public contract. The agreement was signed in Sofia on 28 April 2006, ratified by law of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and is promulgated in the Official Journal. 55 from 2006 In its implementation on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria are built and operate Bulgarian-American joint facilities. Under the Agreement, all buildings in the contracted facilities and sites, including converted or improved by the forces of the United States, are owned by Bulgaria. Built by the U.S. forces became property of Bulgaria when they were built, but they benefit from the US forces. The annual plans for cooperation between the US and Bulgaria provide the necessary control by the Bulgarian side of the use of the facilities and facilities by the US forces. These facilities are used for joint preparation of the formations of the Bulgarian and American Armed Forces and are an important tool for enhancing our interoperability. In this sense, the preparation carried out in the joint facilities is an opportunity for the Bulgarian Armed Forces to exchange experience in the military sphere on our territory and thus increase their preparation at the lowest possible price. Joint facilities are also an important element of regional military co-operation. Unification in security and general use of defence resources, especially with Balkan and Black Sea countries, is one of the main policies of the Ministry of Defence. During the period 2010 - 2013 during joint Bulgarian-American preparations and exercises in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and in training centers in Germany from the US have invested funds in the Bulgarian economy of more than 25 million. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. For 2015, the funds planned for projects in the humanitarian aid and reconstruction package are worth 1 million. $750,000. This appropriation is Under the provisions of the Agreement, it shall have an initial period of 10 years and may be terminated by either Party with one year's written notice to the other Party by diplomatic means, for which it is also necessary to take the relevant national procedures for its denounce. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 0 votes in favour, 14 votes in opposition and 2 votes in abstention did not support the reasons of the importer and suggested that the National Assembly should not adopt a draft decision to break the treaty with the United States on US military bases on Bulgarian territory, No 454-02-23, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u87	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. I now give the floor to Mr. Mihov, then Mr. Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to stress that in the Committee on Defence, the draft decision of the National Assembly has been submitted. I propose a report by the Commission on a draft decision to terminate the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Defence Cooperation, No 554-02-36, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 19 March this year: At a meeting held on 26 March 2015, the Defence Committee (Defence Committee) of the United Nations Security Council (UN Security Council), the United Nations Security Council (UN Security Council) (UN Security Council) and the United Nations Security Council (UN Security Council) Committee (UN Security Council). 1 on its agenda discussed a draft decision to terminate the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Defence Cooperation with the above mentioned number and importers. The meeting was attended by the Head of Political Office of the Ministry of Defence Mr. Iliya Nalbantov. During the examination of the proposal for a decision there were 16 MPs. The order of the President of the National Assembly to examine the draft decision in the Defence Committee was reduced to the MPs by the President of the Commission. The motives of the importers were read by the National Representative Volen Siderov as presented in the project. The MPs heard the opinion of the Ministry of Defence presented by the head of the political cabinet. During the discussion the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov, Volen Siderov, Valentin Radev, Ilian Todorov, Yanko Yankov and Milen Mihov spoke. The importers indicated that they submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to terminate the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Defence Cooperation due to the fact that the initial ten-year period of its action, before its automatic renewal for a subsequent ten-year period, expires in April 2016. Art. 3 of art. XXXIV of the Agreement under which the Agreement may be unilaterally terminated with prior one-year notification to the other Party. The main reason for the request was also pointed out that the Agreement does not contribute to national security but, on the contrary, that its economic benefits are not at the expected level. The unifying thesis of the other members of the Commission who spoke was the understanding that the Agreement regulates the entire framework of enhanced partnership and cooperation in the area of security and defence between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United States and that the so-called Joint Facilities are such within the meaning of the joint preparation between the Bulgarian Army and the Forces of the United States of America. Their mutual use for a limited period of time for joint exercises, preparations and other activities does not change, I stress their status as Bulgarian bases under Bulgarian command and Bulgarian flag. The speakers highlighted the unparalleled benefits of the joint preparation of the formations of the Bulgarian Army and the Forces of the United States and noted its importance for the quality increase in the level of interoperability and combat preparation of the Bulgarian Army. In addition, the Members of the National Assembly stressed that the discussion of the issue was an occasion for better monitoring the specific effectiveness of the joint activities and the use of the facilities in economic terms, and putting forward any proposals for the next time period of action of the Agreement. By closing the discussion, the Commission unanimously decided to hold a public meeting of a new village in the stage of enhanced use of this facility, which also highlights the opinion I am about to read. 16 MPs participated in the subsequent vote. As a result, the Defence Committee of the Forty-third National Assembly, with 14 votes for the People's Assembly, 1 vote against the People's Republic and 1 abstention, adopted the following opinion: Offers to the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 78, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall not adopt the following proposal for a decision by the importer: The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Defence Cooperation is hereby terminated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u89	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. The word now for speech has Mr. Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u90	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs! There is no need for all parliamentarians to have military education to know that these four sites on the territory of Bulgaria are practically American bases. That's the truth. Whatever we name it, American planes are landing on these territories....of Graf Ignatevo....of Bezmer....and so on. If we are a NATO member, there is no free lunch in this world. So here are some translated amounts in the funny frames of about 1 million. The dollars are frivolous. The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front in this sense strongly insists that everyone pay for their lunch, as our neighbours, also NATO members, Greece and Turkey do. In this regard, in the part about the payment of US bases, we will support the idea of an attack. Whatever we're talking about, it's the provision of territory by Bulgaria to land American aircraft. In just a few days, the F-15 will land at the Graf Ignatevo. I think they're already there. So, colleagues, let's protect our national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u91	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Siderov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u92	Mr. Atanasov, why did the Patriotic Front change its mind in four days? A few days ago, in the Commission, whose opinion was reported by General Mihov, your representatives Karakachanov and Mihov strongly voted against our proposal. When are you interested in the Commission or here in the Chamber? I am deeply embarrassed by this reversal of opinion. What is it due to? You have to explain. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for your support if you're voting in favour. But explain why, in the Commission, your representatives were furiously attacking me, I repeat. In the Defence Committee Karakachanov and his colleague Mihov also from the IMRO, violently attacked and explained that our proposal is unacceptable, insane and should not be accepted! Why and how have you changed your mind now? I'm asking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u93	Mr. Gazhev has the floor for a second line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u94	Dear Mr. Atanasov, what you have said is definitely not the case. These are Bulgarian bases, which are also used by the Bulgarian Armed Forces, mainly by them. After all, in Count Ignatievo and Bezmer airport are the main bases of the Air Force, so there is nothing to talk about. On the other hand, what you are saying that money has not been transferred is complete nonsense, as only to build an infrastructure of these facilities the American side has paid 60 million. dollar Including, on the basis of the Agreement, Bulgarian armed forces train at the expense of the Americans at the bases in Graffenveur and Hohenfelz, where they train and train. And all this is not at the expense of the Bulgarian taxpayer, but at the expense of the American taxpayer. The benefits of the Agreement are equal to hundreds of millions of levs, which have so far been for the first 10 years, so I cannot agree with your data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u95	Thank you. You've got a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Atanasov, in fact you have either not read the proposal, which is made by Mr. Siderov, or here we are again making some populism. Which part of the pay will you support, and the other part you won't support? It's a single point. They suggest not to renew. There's no talking about payment anywhere here. That's secondary. I mean, it's not right for this tribune to give the impression that someone is partly supporting something. It is from a single point, that is to say clearly: are you in favour of this proposal by "Attack" or are you against this proposal? To make it clear exactly what you support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u97	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u98	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs! On the order of questioning. Mr. Siderov, in the Committee on Foreign Policy your representatives have also not supported their own proposal. As for whether it is a base or not, many of the bases in Greece, and especially in Turkey, I will even set an example with We are talking about the Turkish base, so in this regard we are the only ones who are not looking for funds, we are not looking for opportunities to provide our territory for payment. And here you're talking about what amounts you're talking about? You're talking about 60 million. The dollar. These are funny things when we provide our bases and our territory to the American Air Force, so let's not pretend to be bigger Catholics than the pope, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u99	Thank you. Mr. Radev has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I must immediately agree with this short statement or line was what Mr. Zafirov did. Yes, we are talking about the annulment of the Agreement. We won't even talk, and I won't talk about what we need to change in it or to talk about it, but at first I still want to say things that we also said in the Commission with colleagues: 2006 this Agreement was signed at the time of the BSP government. Is there something wrong with the Agreement, please refer the questions to them. I address gentlemen of the patriots. And here, as in the Commission, I certainly want to say things that have been said by the importer and which are completely false, and to focus your attention on whether or not they are military bases. Mr. Siderov used to say: "Fullly." There's no such thing. I'll justify it in a few words. "Foreign military bases" - I quote verbatim - American military bases and troops - there is no referendum on these bases. This whole thing isn't true. And a lot of other things. I only mention these to say that a military base can't be something in the same article. 7 is said to be under the command of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. It can't be guarded by the Armed Forces and it can't be someone else's base. Can you imagine an American base in Greece, in Turkey, in Germany, which we have been talking about, which are being guarded and under the command of local troops? This isn't a base. There's no such thing here. That is, the terminology in the proposal, even in the title.. pay attention, American military bases..... is simply not true. We have joint facilities. I, of course, will not allow myself to lecture you and tell you, to lecture you about what a military base is, I have only given a few examples of how false the terms with which this proposal for the annulment of the Agreement has been tabled. Three are the bases that the colleagues mentioned, the joint facilities: Count Ignatievo, Bezmer, together with the warehouses in Aytos, and the polygon. Yeah, that's the money. I don't know why you see them little, some gentlemen who said: 60 million were only given to Count Ignatievo, 10 million and more for extending the track in Bezmer. All this was done and enjoyed by the Bulgarian Armed Forces. I'm just gonna say a few things that benefit from that. Our servicemen use the bases all year round. Of course, American planes are landing here. They're landing not only American, but also from many other countries, allied planes are landing. That shouldn't bother anyone. And I just want to point out, don't forget that American planes are landing, and we used our own rockets on Russian polygons. Does this mean that they had to rebel there, perhaps then our partners in Russia then, that our troops go there for training. It's just a nonsense. And be careful when you talk about it. That's just not true. The cost is well, the costs of teaching are familiar, usually borne by the American side. I don't know what part of the people's representation is familiar with, but almost all expenses during the teachings are borne by the American side for objective reasons. Perhaps the most modern joint facility in Europe, if no one knows, is a Novo village. Our colleagues who mentioned just two, but they are actually three, the bases in Germany, where we go to Hohenfelz, and in Wisbaden also, well these bases are not at the same level as the level of New Village. Remember, our troops, I repeat, are training all year round. And that's why I'm going to tell you, without crossing the boundaries of secrecy: we have no casualties in Afghanistan. One of the reasons that we don't have such victims is because we train in places where the level of training is very high. And a number of other advantages, for example, one of them is compensation for the failure to finance the Bulgarian army. Where were you, Mr. Siderov, for example, when we voted the budget for 2014 down nearly 100 million each year and not only then, but also the three-year frame? Then why didn't you rebel? These trainings on joint bases are also compensation for not having enough funding for our armed forces. And in order not to last long, I will finally ask you what I asked you in the Defence Committee, and then I saw that you reacted very strongly: what you want to do at the moment, with the annulment of the Agreement, you could have done it six months ago. It is not said that it is one month. Note the time, it has been ratified May month, maybe then one or two weeks have passed to be published in the Official Journal, and since then it enters into force so that a month and now we do not follow it. Why, for example, six months ago you and your finger, as you maintained the Oresharski government, did not do this and did not ask to be denounced? And they might have voted for you, and today it won't happen, and we won't support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u101	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Mr. Siderov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u102	Mr. Radev, I advise you from this stand not to be so impertinent and arrogant and lie. When is a referendum for the American bases in Bulgaria? Tell me the date, Mr. Radev. When is there a referendum? Never! Why are you lying? Where was I? In 2006, I was in the South Park and I was chased as a terrorist by three thousand policemen along with my colleagues from the Ataka. [[Loud noise, lines and shouts: "Eeeee!"]] Because we were then and now against these bases, and where were you with your coalition partners? You are talking about the Bulgarian Army, about the budget, you who ruined the Bulgarian Army, you who are partners with those who destroyed all the firepower of the Bulgarian Army, cut rockets, cut tanks, ruined everything! Now you're asking who was where?! Six months ago you brought it in, too, it's there. Eight months ago, and five years ago, we imported it. We're in our place and we're consistent. You do not try to draw from ten wells of water to justify your vassal behavior, because nothing can justify that you have given four bases, as well as to call them: facilities, bases, agreement. It doesn't matter what you call them. These are American bases, and you know very well that there you can't look at at at all, you won't even get your beloved partners -- the Americans -- because they put whatever they want in there. Now they've brought in biological and chemical weapons, and the Netherlands can bring in anything. [[Radio, noise, speech and shouts: "Eeeee! "]] Yeah, you're smiling so arrogantly and arrogantly. When things become such that you will not be able to grin, you will wonder where to hide, because then the people will hold you accountable. They put whatever they want in there, and under contract, you know very well that you have no right to control whoever you are. It's an extravagant place. That's where they do what they want. They are not subject to the Bulgarian laws, and this is written in the contract. Isn't that right, Mr. Radev? Is that right? Is that right? Look me in the eye, don't look, don't pretend it's not. [[Noise and lines.]] That's right! You know that if an American soldier commits murder, you can't sue him in Bulgaria. Isn't that right? And all of that, you're accommodating him. And you're talking about an extension of the runway. They had invested money to extend the track. Well, on this track, planes will be flying that will carry weapons in Ukraine. You know that too, don't you? Is this investment in Bulgaria?! For rent, they didn't give a penny, and you know that very well. We want to be vassals of America, we do this and we will do it! [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u103	I can see that there's another line. Mr. Todorov, come in. We'll finish this procedure, if there's a duplicate, and then there's the rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u104	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Radev, you lied from that stand. Here. [[shows]] , six months ago: Sofia, 27 October 2014 A proposal by the "Attacka" to break the treaty with these military bases. You lied! Lie No 2. Since these bases were for shared use, they did not have to pay rent. Here's the U.S. Defense Department report. [[shows]] where it is clearly described that in Bulgaria the US does not pay rent. I'll tell you just a few: Bamberg Germany, the joint use base between the US Armed Forces and the Bundesvert's for one year's rent and maintenance costs are 80 million. U.S. dollar. I can tell you, Countenvector 829 million, again a joint use base. Why do you keep fooling me?! You say from this tribune: in Bulgaria there were no armed forces of the United States of America, there were no American soldiers. What about the four bases, Mr. Radev? Are they aliens?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] What are they?! What kind of passports are those soldiers in there with?! Why do you keep fooling me? They have given 60 million here. lv. For infrastructure? Would you like me to tell you only at the Air Force Base in........................................ that the United States, except that they pay $60 million each? $ a year's rent, they poured USID 1 billion. 300 million. The dollar, and for infrastructure projects, another 300 million. The dollar. They have appointed 700 people to work, unlike Bulgaria, where they only exploit us. The poorest country doesn't get a penny from the richest country in the world! Mr. Radev, would you let someone live in your apartment without paying rent? Or maybe it's Mr. Tsvetanov here to say, but he's not in the six apartments he has, would you let someone live in for free? These bases are dangerous for Bulgaria. They're dragging us into war. [[Applause by "Attacka."]] This contract must be terminated. We offered it, I told you when "October 27, 2014, now again. Thank you. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by "Attack."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u105	Thank you. Is there another line? You have a line to Mr. Radev's statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u106	Dear Mr. Radev, you have neglected to mention the fact that these are still Bulgarian bases and as MPs all pre-speakers can at any time visit them. They are not closed and can enter at any time. [[Reply from "Attacka."]] Without yelling at me from there, you can just take your bus, go to Count Ignatevo and enter at any moment. [[Reply from "Attacka."]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u107	Thank you. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! First of all, I'd like to ask these two colleagues, but did they even go to these, as they call them, American bases? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Have they ever been to a new village? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'll ask him again, but Mr. Siderov came out saying that six months ago. Just let me draw attention to the document that showed that six months ago, but after the elections. I asked him, "Why didn't he do this before the election when he was going to get support?" Was there a referendum? I don't know why he's asking us, and the Commission is asking us the same thing. Yes, there was no referendum on these joint facilities, but there was no referendum either on NATO or on the European Union. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Imagine that there is a referendum on the bases and we say no, what do we do with NATO? We're leaving NATO? It's just a nonsense question. In addition, they have forgotten that the United States is still a strategic partner of the state, as before, the Soviet Union, where I mentioned that we went to the exercises too. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Then the pay. I've already made the transfers. All the questions that have not been asked, or may have been missed, or so decided then the government, there is no reason to look at this part of the room and ask us. Ask the government, which was then and which signed the Agreement, and was headed by the BSP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u109	Thank you. Rest until 12:00, then we begin with control of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers. (After the break.) PRESENT CECCA TSACEVA: I ask the MPs to take their seats. Deputy Prime Ministers, please enter the room. The Prime Minister's about ten minutes late, he'll be here. [[Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, Meglena Kuneva and Tomislav Donchev enter the hall. Prime Minister Boyko Borisov also enters the hall.]] Honourable Members, while we expect the other Deputy Prime Ministers to remind you of the procedure for topical oral issues under art. 104 of our Rules. It shall be given the floor of a Member of the National Assembly to ask an up-to-date oral question within two minutes. The Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister shall be given the floor immediately after the question is asked. The answer is within three minutes, after which the people's representative who made the question is entitled to a reply within two minutes. The Prime Minister, respectively, the Deputy Prime Ministers, has the right to have a duplicate in two minutes. Each parliamentary group has the right to ask two questions. After asking the second questions from the parliamentary groups, there is an opportunity for questions from non-members in parliamentary groups of MPs. In accordance with art. 106, para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not avail themselves of their right under art. 51, para. 6 to come up with statements and declarations on behalf of parliamentary groups over time designated for this type of control. We start with questions of MPs from the largest parliamentary group "The Group of GERB." Are there any MPs willing to ask the first question? Mr. Manushev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u110	Honourable President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva in relation to the development of the issue of Bulgaria's accession to Schengen. Since there have been very active talks on this topic lately, please inform us of the latest development of the issue. Will there be opening at least one of the boundaries of the sea, air or land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u111	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. Mrs. Kuneva, we are waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u112	Thank you for your interest, because I know that this is a national priority that brings together not only the efforts of the government and the other institutions, but brings together all of you, I hope, in plenary. What is the current development? A document with common messages and arguments in support of Bulgaria's Schengen accession was sent in mid-March. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice and I contributed to its development. The general messages are distributed to the President, all members of the Council of Ministers, to the National Assembly. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has distributed the document on our overseas offices. These are our national messages. I will now rely on your efforts to raise the subject on every occasion within the framework of official and working visits abroad, as well as in bilateral meetings with foreign representatives. I was in the German Bundestag. In fact, Mrs. Tsacheva, I know that you have a visit to the Bundestag, as well as German parliamentarians will come to Bulgaria. In my opinion, our efforts must be very tightly directed in the German Bundestag. I believe that more talks have been held with the government, including the first of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova with the Minister of Interior of Germany. I saw him too. Contacts at executive level are more regular, but indeed the creation of a friendship group between our parliament and German is extremely important. I also invited Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova to this visit. She was absolutely at all the meetings. I think that's how we're supposed to work. My visit was between March 18th and 19th. We had a meeting with the Bundestag, the Federal Ministry of Interior and the Federal Chancellorship. The conclusions that can be made are: the German side recognises the efforts that the Bulgarian government has undertaken, but at the same time expects not only the development of strategies, road maps and other documents in the area of judicial reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime, but the taking of concrete measures and showing results in a short time. The German side also expressed concern about the increased refugee wave and the policy led by Greece. At the time, there was a very unfortunate speech by the defence minister about a possible mass influx of refugees to Europe because of the economic impasse between Athens and the rest of the Eurozone. According to them, the abolition of the Schengen border between Bulgaria and Greece can open a new transit refugee corridor. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So knowing what's happening to our neighbors is very important. I have visits to Sweden and France, within which I will continue to follow the set course and pursue the goal of joining Bulgaria in Schengen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. A line? You won't use it. On behalf of the group of BSP left Bulgaria first question will be asked Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. Mr. Stoilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u114	Madam President, my question is to the Prime Minister and concerns the operation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Defence Cooperation. I ask this question because this Agreement expires in mid-2016, but its final provisions provide that one year earlier the Parties must notify themselves whether they continue or terminate the Agreement. In view of the tense situation in Southeast Europe, I think we need to review the provisions of this Agreement carefully. I believe that with small but important changes it can be continued. This is mainly about art. 4 which provides for consultations on issues affecting the use of facilities and facilities and, note, apart from the preparation of forces, this Agreement may also be used for multivariate operations and other missions. In other words, it should not be considered in only a narrow national context. In view of the severe conflict and the military actions in Ukraine, I think it is very important at this time that the decisions made for the use of these facilities should be done with the consent of the Bulgarian side. Because counseling means we exchange opinions and finally the stronger one to make his decision. In the spirit of partnership, I believe that these decisions should be taken jointly with regard to the deployment of arms, flyovers, exits from the territory of the country and all the objectives for which they can be used. My question, Prime Minister, is: will you instruct the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence to hold urgent consultations with the US authorities to make certain clarifications and adjustments to the content of this Agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u115	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Mr. Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoilov, in one word I will put it on this subject, because it is, as you yourself said, the international situation or conflict in Ukraine that every country should approach it very carefully. I think that a month or a month and a half ago, when I replied to Mr. Siderov, I said that when these consultations were over, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and I myself would come to Parliament to inform you how these negotiations were going, because it is not something that I alone, nor the government could even make such a difficult commitment. So I will assign and report to the parliament, respectively, how the negotiations are going. You are talking about 2016, but yesterday the deadline for the agreement that the previous government had concluded with "Westinghouse." I must tell you that you have caused me so much trouble with what was then absolutely unnecessaryly signed to renegotiate it to the next government, knowing perfectly that neither do we have the opportunity to take such a large loan, to issue a new debt and over 10-15 billion to put, as a trader, to be a Westinghouse, not an investor. The word "investor" is gone. To be a buyer of this reactor. A lot of your party knows that. For the third day, even for press releases, we can't agree on what to do in common. So if there is such a question, I am telling you in advance that our opinion as a government is this project under the so proposed scheme and respectively signed agreements by the Council of Ministers of the previous government or the former, as it appears, we cannot undertake this commitment to confirm this treaty. Yes, of course, we will continue to work with Westinghouse as a partner, but in the way and in what has been signed and negotiated, we cannot make this commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u117	Line, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u118	Madam President! Prime Minister, since we have introduced another important topic, I agree that at the end of any government, significant future commitments should not be made, although one of the points was to continue the talks with the next regular government. I'm not pushing you to sign anything. Continue to talk most seriously about the conditions under which this may possibly result. So don't worry about it. You will have our support for everything that firmly supports the Bulgarian interests. Let's not turn out to have to build reactors that are more expensive than the ones we gave up. So really, this issue is important. In the second part, I express satisfaction with your response as stated readiness. I hope that it will have results because, again, I say, with small but important adjustments to this Agreement, we can protect our national interests, and not just wait, as you said: "Let Russia and America understand each other. Perhaps they will soon not be understood, and the time limit to which you have to achieve this result is 12 June this year, as the Agreement has then entered into force. The time is short, assign our representatives diplomatically, the ministers what you said, to really achieve such clear conditions. Even in this case, I do not put financial requirements first because these facilities are really used jointly by the Bulgarian and US troops. They are under Bulgarian command, but you understand that the main decisions on how they are used, exploitation are taken by the American side. It has the opportunity to increase its contingent to 5 thousand. people on the territory of the country. Therefore, in my opinion, the questions of the Bulgarian national security are first in order to prevent Bulgaria from being involved in any form of military conflict. Other issues can also be discussed and achieved, which I hope you will inform us even before the end date on which it expires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u119	Would you like to use your coat, Prime Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u120	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Stoilov! My hole is in ongoing negotiations. Yes, of course we will continue to work not only with them and other strategic companies. My question was that we are ready to work on this agreement if they are an investor. As a trader we don't have the financial resources and you know it very well, and if now, just imagine that on the basis of this Agreement, we enter and say: colleagues, we need to withdraw another 10 billion. Euros or dollar debt, how will parliament react! That is why I have repeatedly stated that as investors, they are welcome. So we can talk about this. If the project is profitable, they should find a working scheme to come as an investor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u121	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. The Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is in line. You're welcome to develop the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova to my question regarding the entry into force from today of the requirement for admission and review of persons in hospitals must present ID cards. In Bulgaria, however, we have many Bulgarian citizens who do not have ID cards because they do not have money to take out or others because of a gap in legislation. The omission in the legislation is precisely that according to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents and the Law on Civil Registration, in order to get an ID card the person must present either a document of ownership of a residence or a lease. However, it is very difficult to show property documents and rent documents in a large part of the neighborhoods with mixed populations where housing is not legalized. That's why most of these people who live in these neighborhoods can't get their IDs out. According to this requirement, which enters into force from today, it is imperative to present an identity card, these people are in real trouble. Dear Minister, my request and what I would like to draw your attention to is that a few months ago, the DSS Parliamentary Group submitted three laws proposing a change of current legislation in favour and interest of this problem. What I would like to draw your attention to and what we believe it is necessary for the parliamentary group to set up a working group and, with your support, proceed to actions that will solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u123	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. Perhaps you felt the reaction of MPs from the Chamber and it is probably because of the editing of art. 104, as blitzcontrol is answered to current issues concerning the common policy of the government, the common policy! You are putting a very specific issue, which is also entirely within the competence of the National Assembly, once such a legislative initiative has been tabled. But let's give the deputy prime minister an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Thank you for the subject you've raised so much. I can solidarity myself with Mrs. Tsacheva's position. I expect this decision from Parliament and we will see how it can be implemented. We will consider in the Ministry what urgent measures can be taken to ensure the protection of the rights of these citizens. However, this cannot be contrary to the laws of non-compliance or legalization, legitimization of illegal property.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u125	- What's the line? You won't use it, Mr. Iliev. From the Group of the Reformation Bloc? come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u126	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! My question is to the Prime Minister Mr. Borisov. Dear Mr. Borisov, you know that the ruling coalition has suffered a lot of criticism regarding the ratification of the dealership treaty, which we approved some time ago and whether it will be necessary to withdraw all funds. I am pleased with your statement last week, which you made through the media, that 820 million were collected in the first three months of the year. lv. more. My question is related precisely to this topic.. what is your attitude as prime minister for the use of these additional revenues and in general what is the government's planned policy in this direction?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u127	Colleagues, once again I have to read the text of the Rules of Procedure: You ask how you will walk the numbers that are announced medialy. Prime Minister, answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, my fellow Member! To date in March, we have 250 million more raised by March! The sum is indeed over 820 million. But this does not mean that from now on we will be able to figure out how to spend it, because the budget gap is close to 2 billion and we are betting and we are trying very ambitiously to collect more revenue, for which of all parliamentary groups we have received praise, but we are far from thinking that we will stop here or that is enough for us. So the ministers' appetites are enormous, the needs for many spheres are enormous, but the main purpose of this revenue is to fill the budget gap so that we do not touch the money that is of debt. That's the policy we follow. If, God forbid, we continue to do well or the money goes by a billion and two hundred or three hundred million, then we can enter the parliament and have a debate over several places where extra money could be put for different spheres. But this will happen with such a debate to assess where we really urgently need to work. You see the old sections of the highways in what state they are in. There are sections of 1975 that haven't been rehabilitated in 40 years, not to mention that for at least 25 years these sections haven't been rehabilitated at all. In a word, only 30 km away from Pazardzhik and Plovdiv and after Shumen will require about a hundred million. That's six strips! But I'll come, I'll put it here as a topic, we'll solve it together. A few days ago, despite what we're doing, the unit that we've been building for about two and a half months, without a lot of noise on it, you see prosecutors, tax officials, customs officers, policemen, and every Wednesday we meet at a meeting together with the ministers, gives results, but my findings are, especially since that night, we've been working actively that the breakthroughs in the systems are huge. So today, at the meeting, I have ordered two main topics that we need to develop: in the short term, we will make rotation, we will insert further within, even the administration of the NRA, Customs, Border Police, the Criminally Acquired Property Commission, we have, I think, 22 detained at the moment... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just a second. And at 7:00 a.m., an indictment will be filed, and they will be launched immediately today by the confiscation commission. But the same little for information will be interesting for MPs, the same scheme, the same brigade, which is on the border border border border guards and customs officers, since February 28th have released 15 trucks on weekends. Four of them we've held on to are thousands of masterboxes, but practically even some who didn't know the cameras were working, just how they're running the trucks past them. All of this is being held back. There is a very interesting coincidence: the chief of shifts in all the days when the smuggling takes place is on leave or sick leave.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u129	You'll have an opportunity in the back of your head to complete your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u130	In short, the revenue comes from this unit and it will increase its activity because we have already located the people and exactly the punctures where they are. In today they are clogged, so I am convinced that revenues will continue to increase. And how will we spend it, the parliament will decide when the time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u131	The line, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u132	Madam President, Prime Minister! Thanks for the answer. I think we should really focus on reducing the deficit and I am glad that this is also your opinion because we need to show and keep the stability that this government guarantees for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u133	Thank you. Mr. Borisov, would you like to use the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u134	I almost used it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u135	It kind of worked out that way, yeah. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u136	In the manner of conduct, Mrs. Tsacheva, for which I apologize for slight violation of the regulations. I would like to say to all MPs that students from Sofia and young Bulgarians from Macedonia and Albania came up on the balcony to the right. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u137	Mr. Angelov, let's welcome these groups, and welcome the groups of young people from Pleven, from Pordim. [[Applause.]] Now you're putting me in a conflict of interest, almost. This was not at all in the way of conduct, but I take it that you used this opportunity to get to the result that practically worked. For questions on behalf of the Patriotic Front Group Mrs. Karastoyanova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u138	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Prime Minister, the Bulgarian tourism industry is on the verge of the worst summer season. Bulgaria is suffering damage from the sanctions imposed by the European Union on Russia, which are expressed in a serious decline in tourists. Tour operators and hotel managers predict 70-80% fewer visitors than this key market for Bulgaria in the upcoming season. In view of the need for vigorous measures to support the tourism sector, my question to you is: do you provide for a Bulgarian government and parliamentary delegation to urgently visit Moscow to give a clear sign in support of our economic relations, financing price advertising before the beginning of the summer season aimed directly at Russia, Romania, Ukraine and Belarus, and easing the procedure for issuing multiple visas for Russian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u139	Please answer, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With one such delegation, we will increase tourists in Moscow. [[crowd cheering, laughing]] We will not attract any more in Bulgaria. It's within the framework of the joke and not disrespectful to you I'm saying it. We have in no way done anything to disrupt relations with the Russian side. [[Noise and lines from "Attacka."]] Bulgaria is a member of the European Union and NATO and as such a member, perhaps without the attack, all the other parties, or the Patriot front, the new parties that are in parliament, all of them in an indisputable way over the years have supported this line, this policy, this membership. So the suggestion that we as a state are doing something against Russia is not true. As one of the 28 countries in the European Union, we respect the rules the European Commission makes. From now on, as far as the tourism industry is concerned, perhaps what I'm about to say will not appeal to you every day we hear that yes, that is certainly a problem. But how many tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens leave at the holidays our points for Greece and Turkey? How many tens of thousands?! Doesn't the tourism industry have any interest in making prices and service, quality of food, alcohol, anything that concerns a tourist industry - umbrellas, armchairs or anything? [[Applause]] To return these 50-60,000 cars, which we report to the checkpoint on holidays only in our neighbors, and not to mention the summer season? If you make a survey with users of tourist services in Bulgaria, Greece and Turkey, and you know them, they will tell you: "Tam is cheaper, it is better service, more quality. " Well, isn't this the first priority of the tourism industry?! Then let's mourn for other tourists. In the European Council, we strongly, as well as in front of European media, have insisted that the crisis in Ukraine be resolved as quickly as possible, that the Customs Agreement should be respected, and that sanctions should be lifted. I have defended this as a position of Bulgaria, we have made this public, this is the opinion of the government as well. My request to you and the tourism industry is: sit down and chat a little................................................................................................. What's the status on the beaches? Are they clean, are they maintained in the proper form, what are the prices of sunbeds and umbrellas, of attractions, if you will, are they competitive with our neighbours Greece and Turkey? I think there is a huge reserve of Bulgarian citizens using other tourist destinations. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u141	Line, Mrs. Karastoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u142	Dear Prime Minister, there must be a basis in some of the highlights of what you have said, but I would like to stress that political signs of economic support are needed. In this sense, let me tell you that a few years ago, when Germany was having economic difficulties, Chancellor Angela Merkel, who you often set an example for, approached his compatriots with a call to choose Germany for the upcoming Christmas and New Year holidays. Today, we from the coalition are addressing you, Mr. Prime Minister! Make this appeal from this high tribune and through the media, make this appeal with the support of the chief editors of printed media and of the directors of electronic media........................................................................................... the Bulgarian citizens and.............................................................. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u143	It's a hole. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I use the platform of parliament to address all Bulgarian citizens [[noise, excitement, laughter and applause]] spend their vacations in Bulgaria. I call on the MPs and ministers also to take their vacations in Bulgaria, because if you make a reference, it may be that many of the MPs have not rested in Bulgaria. My call is to you and to the ministers and to all of us. In addition, I call on the tourism industry to respond to the app of the Patriotic Front and to all of us with this to give service, prices and quality, which will make the Bulgarians not travel by 500 kilometers more, but to stay here. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u145	There is a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Mr. Haytov will develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I gathered the courage today, on April 1st, to ask a question related to money and investment of a Gabrovo.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u147	As long as it's not a specific question and you're not in violation of art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u148	Be assured, Madam President, that there is no such violation. Since we are elected by the MPs from the Agricultural People's Union and the Bulgarian Democratic Center, with the exception of colleague Rosen Petrov, from constituencies with predominantly smaller municipalities, with more villages, our issue and our concern is for the development of these settlements. My question is about the government's rural development policy. What action does the government take to invest in villages, rural areas and small municipalities? What European programmes allow for investment in them? What action does the government take with the aim of economic growth and normal life of people in villages and small municipalities? What programs are public sites such as churches, schools, bridges and infrastructure being renovated? Is there any possibility that the state administration, whether by the Council of Ministers or other units, could provide assistance to small municipalities in the preparation and preparation of projects for applying and financing from EU funds or from the state budget, whether in front of the State Fund................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u149	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Your question is correct, we expect an answer from Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u150	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Haytov! A major instrument by which the government can implement measures and activities to improve the situation in rural areas, as well as activities related to supporting agriculture, as one of the main livelihoods there, is the Rural Development Programme. For your information only, the Programme will be of a total volume of 2 billion for the period 2014 - 2020. 900 million. EUR of which 2 billion 360 million to be European funding. I stress that this is separate from nearly 5 billion. 300 million dollars for direct payments. That's separate! The time is short to tell you what the Rural Development Programme contains in its main components............................................ measure 6, Measure 7, Measure 19. Firstly, this is the largest financial instrument financed by European money. Secondly, it covers practically the whole range of activities and investments that we have under the operational programmes, starting with: support for businesses, farmers, for agricultural and non-farming activities, as well as investments in practically all types of public infrastructure in rural areas. This is a major focus in the measure of 7 "Basic services for renovating villages in rural areas', including even such a component as investment in broadband access, which, according to all the analyses done by colleagues in the European Commission, is one of the reasons for the backward state of these areas. The last version of the Programme was sent on 26 February, all open issues have already been cleared, and if there are any comments, I believe that they will be of a technical nature and by the middle of the year we will have an approved Rural Development Programme. However, your question is much deeper and there is no way for the answer to remain only at the level of the Rural Development Programme. You're also asking for the information. This is an extremely important issue. Our ambitions are the entire network of 28 information centers that we have, literally from the end of this year, to start providing much more active information, plus services, perhaps not consultations, but supporting all candidates, including the Rural Development Programme. Lastly, the fact is that European funding is a major share in the state's investment resource at all. That's an indisputable fact! In addition, one of the tasks that lies ahead of us, in so far as this is not a task, but only the government, it must also meet Parliament's support: what additional activities, including what additional funding should be allocated to peripheral and rural areas, not so much for agriculture, which, as a result of direct payments, is developing well, but rather addressing the heavy migration and depopulation processes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u151	The line, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u152	Thank you, Madam President. I would like, in the framework of the envisaged opportunity in the duplicate, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, to answer what are the opportunities for supporting these small municipalities to prepare the projects, because these municipalities definitely do not have the administrative capacity to draw up the projects themselves to report to apply to the funding funds? I would like to assure you that with all the eligible mechanisms of parliamentaryism we will demand more projects, and successful projects in smaller municipalities, which will also apply to the Bulgarian villages.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u153	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u154	Dear Mr. Haytov, as I mentioned all territorial structures in the country of the State Fund....................... and the entire network of 28 district information centers will be mobilised in this direction. I've already commented on that. The fact is that in some small municipalities there is indeed a problem with capacity. I do not accept the general finding that we often hear when we talk about the Bulgarian local authorities that they do not have capacity. It is absurd to say something similar, since many of the small municipalities, even the rural municipalities, have implemented 4-5 projects funded with European money. Many of them have not only well implemented projects, but also projects that do not have any financial corrections, which we cannot give only to external assistance, good consultant or something like that, obviously there are already a critical mass of two I agree with you that the focus of efforts should be those where the number of projects is very small because we have one or two projects. After all, we have no way of explaining to the local population, to the people who live there, that they have received less goods, because their municipal administration has less capacity. This explanation is of no use to anyone, so even though we have independent local authorities, our commitment is the way you have noted. We have other ideas related to the work of the National Association of Municipalities, supporting the association itself in this direction, in order to strengthen the capacity of these local authorities, which obviously have a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u155	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. The Parliamentary Group is now in line with the attack. Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister, you have my question. It is very clear and specific: will you give notice to the American side to terminate the Base Agreement? You're gonna do it, I mean, are you gonna end this agreement, or are you gonna continue it? Some might say, but this is repeated by the question of Mr. Yanaki Stoilov and the BSP. No, it doesn't happen again. I will now tell you exactly where the hypocrisy of this parliamentary group is. No offense, dear colleagues, but in the Defence Committee, your two representatives voted against our proposal to end the Base Agreement. When the Agreement was concluded in 2006, Mr. Kalfin, who is now a minister here again, was Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Prime Minister was Sergey Stanishev But what difference does it make now? The situation is intense, there is war and every blabbering of weapons on Bulgarian territory makes our situation worse. That's why it's very important right now, right now, if I were Prime Minister. [[GRUNTING IN GERB]] What would I do to the American side? I would say: "We are now closing the Agreement, I would also say that Bulgaria does not want to participate in any military conflict and until the great states of the United States and Russia are agreed, Bulgaria will be neutral. This is the right position. I've said it more than once from this tribune. Therefore, my question is clear, precise and specific, unlike Mr. Stoilov's question: will you terminate the Agreement, or will you continue it so that the public here can understand who is for Otherwise, the problem gets blurry. Here, the National Assembly is the place where, with actions and not words, I address my colleagues who expressed concern about tourism, well, dear colleagues, we have introduced a proposal for Russian tourists residing 90 days without a visa to be in Bulgaria. Here, this is an action, now at 2:30, I'm going to defend it in the Foreign Policy Committee. If you're in for it, come over there and vote for it. However, your representatives are voting against it, and here, in front of the cameras, they say: "We are concerned. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Concern is proven in deeds, not in words. Thank you. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u157	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. For an answer, Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u158	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Siderov! As you built your question, in a word: we will not end the existence of Bulgarian bases under the Bulgarian command for joint exercises with the United States. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u159	The line, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u160	Thank you, Prime Minister, for answering so clearly and accurately. I always prefer a clear position. When this position is a political opponent, then it is much easier to oppose. But I don't accept the hypocrisy and the representation of one position as another. In fact, you say clearly: We will not end the bases, they will be used. That's your position. All right! It's good to hear from people and know. Once again, I turn to those who are trying here, from this tribune, to say that we are supposedly against sanctions, against bases. And in fact, they're practically supporting them. So a clear position is a better position. That way I will continue to fight this position. In a political way, we will now also sign off on exiting NATO. This is our position, let's be clear. In Bulgaria it is high time to know who and what is fighting for so that there is no blur and no delusion. The other is a con for the voters. Thank you. [[Applause from the "Attacka". Replices.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u161	Colleagues, please no lines from place to place! Hole, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u162	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Siderov! The hypocrisy in my politics is foreign to me. There are topics on which people would really prefer to be told otherwise, but I am a man of truth. Party GERB and the people with whom we are in government now have a clear Euro-Atlantic position. It is requested and we have not had anything else in mind for a moment. Of course, we strongly oppose any military action in both the Balkans and the region. We demand that the Minsk Agreement be respected.. this conflict should stop being decided by diplomatic means, because it will be resolved for decades. From the sanctions we maintain, we lose in agriculture, we also lose in tourism, we lose in many areas, we lose Europe, we lose in Russia itself. You see what happened to the ruble. I hope that leaders in Europe, in Russia and in America will find a diplomatic solution to the issue. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u163	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. On behalf of the ABC Parliamentary Group Mr. Borislav Borisov will ask his question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u164	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! Prime Minister, in a particular way, my question is intertwined with a few of those already asked and I will try to be more generalized. My question is related, it has already been asked about the sanctions imposed on Russia by the European Union and, in particular, implemented by Bulgaria as a member country, and the economic consequences of these sanctions for the Bulgarian economy. In order for there to be no possible political speculation with the issue that I am putting forward, I would immediately like to say that we are.... to adhere to the principles of European solidarity and to their compliance. However, the problem is whether we respect these principles in favor or to the detriment of the national interest, understand in the case of their impact on the Bulgarian economy. I do not know how much, following the sanctions, our country has caused negatives to the Russian economy, but certainly the same sanctions on the boomerang principle apply certain, serious, losses to the Bulgarian economy. These losses are not only imminent in tourism, as previous colleagues have said. These losses have already been realised in both production and agriculture, and not small losses. The media abound with figures and facts on these issues, but I am convinced that you, Prime Minister, are better acquainted with the realities of the negative economic consequences of sanctions for our country than any of us. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Is my time over?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u165	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u166	Just two seconds, Madame Chairman. Therefore, my question is: what measures does the government take and does it take any measures to overcome or compensate for the serious negative consequences for the Bulgarian economy of the imposed sanctions on Russia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u167	For an answer, Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u168	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Borisov! I'm going to try to answer without repeating myself, because we've already spoken on these subjects several times. All of what you are saying is a fact, but I repeat, these are negative consequences that all the other countries of the European Union have. You're wrong. The sanctions are affecting Russia. What happened to the ruble and the money that gets lost there are huge. I hope it is precisely the purpose of the sanctions that guarantees the Minsk Agreement and stops people from dying in Ukraine. I repeat, at the European Council and in all our talks we have always defended the thesis in the fastest diplomatic way to resolve this conflict. He won't be solved with a weapon. That is why we have been one of the countries that has insisted not to send weapons to Ukraine, not to give military assistance, precisely in order not to give up arms. I see no way in which business can be compensated, I see no way in which Bulgaria can now do something other than what is in the common Euro-Atlantic position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u169	A line? Here you go, Mr. Borisov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u170	Prime Minister, you said you didn't see a way and I believe in that thing. Even if there is a way, if these compensatory measures do not lead to the neutralization of losses and they become significant or threatening to our scale, has the government discussed, once again... has it discussed an option to adopt the position of a group of countries, also members of the European Union, expressing a significantly greater degree of reservation towards continuing the sanctions imposed on Russia, and some of them are for termination or at all against these sanctions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u171	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Borisov, just now my colleague Siderov said that hypocrisy or vague positions are something very bad in politics and I agree with him. The European Council takes its decisions by absolute majority, which is from 28 countries, 28 hands must be raised by the prime ministers, by the presidents or chancellors who are in the European Council. The fact is that the sanctions have been voted by an absolute majority and are all respected. Then how would you comment on some leaders of such countries who say they are against sanctions after we voted 28 people in Brussels?! I can safely now, within the framework of populism, say that I am against sanctions, but I have raised my hand in Brussels, like all of these, the group of countries that you are talking about. Now that's populism! And today, at the Council of Ministers, I have asked a question to the Foreign Minister: when the foreign ministers meet, to ask your question there, why we vote one thing, and then mixedly to please someone, they say another. After I left the Council, I said yes, we support the sanctions despite all the burdens for Bulgaria. Another goes out and says: I'm against sanctions, but he voted like me! Is he okay? There is no such group of countries. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u173	On behalf of the MPs who are not members of a parliamentary group, Mrs. Anna Barakova has submitted a request for a question. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u174	Mr. Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister, Members of the National Assembly! My question is to Mrs. Kuneva. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, my question is related to the draft updated Anti-Corruption and Prevention Strategy with the establishment of a specialized unit for investigating corruption activities of senior officials, including president, prime minister, ministers, deputy ministers, MPs, MEPs, magistrates, heads of state committees, district managers, mayors, municipal councillors and others, or the so-called anti-corruption prosecution office, which may be similar to the one operating in Romania. My questions to you are as follows. When do you expect it to work in Bulgaria? How do you see as a time period the realization of this project? I would also ask for more clarification on the new specialized body, will it be part of or outside the judiciary or the Attorney General's office. These are questions to which, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I hope to have an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Barakova. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u176	Ms. Barakova, yesterday I was careful not to publish it on April 1st, so there would be no unpleasant comments, since yesterday the Anticorruption Strategy is on the Council of Ministers' website. There you will read it and see that there is an answer to your questions. Especially what you are interested in about Romanian experience, no, we do not adhere to Romania's experience and do not copy-pass what is available in Romania. We follow our experience. This is a different country, this is a country with different history in these few decades, in which we are trying to find the best Bulgarian solution. [[Reply of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov to the President Tsetska Tsacheva.]] Less than ten days ago in Romania, there was a very serious scandal between the Agency for Security and the so-called "specialized prosecutor's office" -- that is, in Romania, the question of who will protect the guards is very up-to-date. Otherwise, we studied this as an opportunity to apply it in Bulgaria. In fact, this is an experience taken from Poland, Poland has taken the experience from the Baltic countries and so on. My point is: let's see what is useful for Bulgaria and do it here in Bulgaria. The attached Strategy has, conditionally speaking, three pillars. One pillar is political, it is the creation of a national coordinator "Prime Minister" or Deputy Prime Minister. There is a council in which NGOs will participate, which will monitor every six months what happens to the single body. In my opinion, this is the main, bearing structure of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. Yes, in this single body you can find an analogy with Romania, but also with absolutely any other country. It is about prevention and combating conflict of interest. The most important part of the creation of this body will go through a law that will strengthen what is currently contained as opportunities in the Law on Conflict of Interests. This is a proposal for the Strategy by the Court of Auditors when it comes to the declarations of these 6000 seniors with political and administrative responsibilities, and they will improve their declarations, their content and so on. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The last part you're asking about is what the D.A.'s gonna do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u177	The time determined for an answer is over, Mrs. Kuneva. You'll continue in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u178	Yeah, just a second. It's a matter of changing the Constitution. What the government is targeting is building a specialized interdepartmental unit between the prosecution, the DANS and the Ministry of Interior for investigating crimes committed by persons holding or occupying senior government positions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u179	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. The Prime Minister informed me that he must leave the National Assembly at 13.20 pm. There's an international delegation that needs to be adopted. It is probably the same one that earlier today was in the National Assembly. If there are questions for him, we have time to develop just one question. [[Noise and lines.]] It is now the turn of GERB's group. They show tolerance. By BSP left Bulgaria "Mrs. Manolova." [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! Not a week goes by without your government, dear Mr. Borisov, not to blow people up with another personnel scandal. The massive political squabble is a fact in all ministries, but especially feudal ministers from your accompanying parties are manifesting themselves. [[Radio, calls from GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u181	Please! I'm asking for a statement that looks like this room, Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u182	Perhaps because they were on a diet for too long or, if I may quote them, a post and prayer for 12 years, during the period of opposition, but now they are in a hurry to catch up. Particularly tragic is the situation among the parties in the Reformation bloc, which have literally taken to the hair distribution of the portions of power. I've been giving examples for the last two weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u183	Very culinary is your question, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u184	The Consumer Protection Commission. That's where the DDS and Meglena Kuneva's men fought. Of course, they beat the SDS because it's the Ministry of Democratic Forces. It is conveniently accommodated not only the management of the entire SDS, but the whole party, given its numerical composition. [[Radio, laughter on the left.]] Whether they will protect consumers or fill the UDF consumer basket is yet to be seen, but the fact is that they defeated Radan Kanev's partner for these important places. The agency for small and medium-sized enterprises there, following a mass political purge, was appointed a lady who was a party to a hollow civil contract with a front executive who had drained the Agency. Now the same lady has returned the gesture to the CEO and now together on the principle of you, you will again be draining the Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. [[Noise and lines.]] I have here a good example of coalition interaction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u185	Ask yourself a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u186	Here we have a good example of coalition interaction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u187	Ask yourself a question! Ask yourself the question, examples my ass!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u188	The last sentence in which the parties from the Reform bloc have agreed who to become the director of the Fund of Education in Razgrad. A good example of how a reform competition is being held. [[Noise and lines.]] It's not important to ask who? It's important that he is his own! My question to you is: what is your attitude towards all this personnel vakhanalia, especially reformers? There will be dismissals in both the economy and agriculture over 800. It's your responsibility, what kind of attitude are you gonna take about it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. For an answer, Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u190	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Manolova! I thank my colleagues at GERB for showing this tolerance, because if the question had not been asked, they would have said that we used the time. At the same time, I thank Parliament for understanding that an hour and twenty minutes of answers to questions from the prime minister is enough time, and that I can have the other meeting. Mrs. Manolova, in a truly complex coalition, in complicated times, it is not easy to manage and it is not easy to make decisions. I suppose you can in the same way say about the time when you ruled, but you know perfectly well that the ministers are the ones who direct their ministries and are responsible for the personnel appointments or the proposals that are being made. Before the elections we have in no way even given the results of the elections, neither we, nor the ABB, nor the patriots, nor the Reformation bloc, not even the illusion of the people that we would rule together, but so the results of the elections came together that better in this version in our mandate the only possible one at GERB, could not happen. I have repeatedly told the ministers, not only by the Reformation Bloc, and by ABB, and accordingly by GERB, I have told them to be careful where people are their professionals, are not put on a party basis and believe me, from this group of GERB, from the MPs when I meet with them, the accusations against me are that we do not change people. It's just that the glass is half empty or full depending on which side you're looking at. If we ask GERB and they at the moment to stand up, especially if I give Tsveta Karayancheva the word, it will just become... [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, that's what they call it, and the DPS will be after that. And they can all stand up and say something. So my advice to you is, when it is Friday, the parliamentary control to ask the ministers respectively these questions, because I have demonstrated the necessary tolerance and I believe that it is right for them to appoint the alternates in the sector that is in charge of a minister, to appoint the people with whom they can work as a team. It's the right thing to do. With foreign horses, my grandfather used to say, it's hard to plow! Each of the ministers is therefore personally responsible for the appointments. I, you see, if you check in important management positions how many people are left of the previous government, there are not very few in the area of security, if you look, both in the army and in many places. There's gotta be some jobs somewhere that might not be the best. Believe me that when we gather in GERB very strongly is protested by the party. There's been a very strong protest about some appointments, but this is the coalition. That's because Mr. Kalfin has four deputy ministers. All four of them he hired because the pension reform he presented yesterday is his responsibility, with all the government's support, and it's normal when he builds it, to put on the people he works with. If there is a party discharge of a good man anywhere, please inform me. I make a commitment to make sure it doesn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u191	The line, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u192	Honourable Members, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! Honourable Prime Minister, I will tell you what is different from the political dismissals that have been made in all the governments, let us not be fooled by the fact that your GERB-activists, GERB-ministers and especially associated ministers do not sit still until they fire the last person appointed in the last calendar year. [[Loud noise, lines and calls.]] They won't stop! Cleaner, driver, carpenter, laundromat, technical staff! Since we're tired of counting the dismissals here, a few people have come to parliament with scattered fates who want to tell you their stories briefly. A young woman from Dupnitsa with two higher educations, one of them is a single mother with a sick child, working as a janitor, fired by the newly appointed leaders of GERB in the Irrigation Systems. Two higher educations, a cleaning lady. A young woman who is disabled, 91% disability, won a competition at the District Board, fired by Vratsa's district manager on the disabled day. She's here. Look at her with her destiny. One young woman from Plovdiv, two higher educations, two languages fired by Minister Lukarski, expert at the Regional Unit of Competitiveness. A young woman from Kyustendil, 30 years old, two higher educations, two languages, a national representative in the European Commission on aquaculture control, fired outside all rules and regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u193	The time for examples is up, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u194	If you have a heart, see at least the handicapped woman and the single mother with two higher educations, because she really is an outrage in what ruthless way the leaders of today treat the ordinary Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u195	Thank you. A hole, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, as soon as I leave, I'm going to ask you to give these people up. I will personally check how it is possible in your term as a woman with two higher educations not to find her a job, but to make her a cleaning lady. [[Replys and applause by GERB. A line from the National Representative Maya Manolova.]] So you said that she was a cleaning lady, which we have now fired, which means that in the previous period she was a cleaning lady with two higher educations, along the path of elementary logic. So I'm making a commitment right now, now that I'm leaving, I'm leaving my chief of staff to take these people and I'm going to have the maximum understanding of recovery or being appointed if those are the criteria that you're saying they are. And if, especially for political reasons, or that they are not from GERB, reformers, patriots, ABB are removed, I guarantee you that I will restore them. Of course, I'll talk to Minister Lukarski, that's his right. I don't for a reason talk many times about tolerance and about being both people and statesmen and politicians. When GERB became the first political force, but remained in opposition and walked around the country, dozens of people walked past me and gave me the orders with which they were fired. Then I said to them, "Keep them safe. With the same orders, I'll just change the dates, and restore you to work. [[Applause from GERB.]] For such appointments, you should not be angry with me because they have been removed in the same way. Everything else I advise my fellow ministers, and you as MPs, is not right for human destinies. Some have preferred BSP, others have preferred GERB, third reformers, or any other party, not to miss. Their lives cannot go on at four years of age, four years of living, four years of suffering, or vice versa. This is neither good for career development nor good for the potential of the state, of the people, of our mobilisation. So please, I address my party first and foremost, stop! I have stopped, Mrs. Manolova, at least 300 appointments that have been proposed to me, or have come ministers to tell me: it is offered by the parliamentary group, by the district management this one, this one and this one, whether it is in one ministry, in the second, in the third or fourth, I have stopped them personally. Somewhere I can't, because coalition culture, by giving man the power and having to defend his politics and appointments, I can't interfere with it. I can in those in which I am directly responsible as party leader. Please give these people to me. You'll hear from me after how I got carried away. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u197	Thank you, Mr. Borisov, for your participation in today's blitz control. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[Reply.]] You have a question, okay. I announced the colleague, then we will return to GERB. Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers, my question is related to the programming of the Operational Programme "Environment" 2014-2020. Of course, my question will be of a general nature. Dear Mr. Donchev, at what stage are the negotiations with the Commission, what moments remain controversial? And is there a very important question on the schedule of actions to fulfil the applicable preconditions? Thank you in advance for your answer. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u199	Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Loud noise and lines.]] The fact is that last week there was a delegation from the European Commission at an extremely high level. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Here was also directly the director responsible for Bulgaria, as well as the Director-General Mr. Defa. During this mission, I believe that they were carried out...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u201	Colleagues, please order in the court. It's disrespectful to the Deputy Prime Minister. Group to the right!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u202	... the final negotiations on the two operational programs As far as you are well aware, there are a number of open issues on which we are negotiating with the European Commission, and the topics specifically in the environment are related to when the projects start, given that all the steps related to the planning of the so-called.......................... and which institution will be the beneficiary. The position of the European Commission that a contracting authority concluding the contracts under the Public Procurement Act must be the water companies are inflexible. It, of course, has its economic logic. We are talking about projects that generate revenue for which there is a special type of co-financing related precisely to the fact that projects generate revenue. Revenues are the responsibility of the one who collects water tax, i.e. water companies. There is a really economic logic for water operators to have a strong role in this process. However, our insistence has always been that this process cannot run without local authorities, for a long list of reasons. On the one hand, there in recent years, as far as national capacity is concerned, is accumulated precisely in them. Let us not forget that the implementation of projects in the sector "Waters" is related not only to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, but especially to the Law on Construction in the territory where local authorities also have powers. What we last agreed on is that the water companies can remain responsible for concluding a contract with the contractors, but they will be supported by the municipalities. In what legal form will be the construction between local authorities and the water operator is a topic which is of the authority of the Bulgarian government. As far as preliminary conventions are concerned, I do not believe that in the last five months there has been any delays in their implementation. Another question is that Bulgaria still has open pre-conditions. It is reported every month to the Council of Ministers for progress. I personally monitor each of the responsible departments if there is one or more to make progress at such a rate that the preliminary conditionalities do not constitute a problem since 2017. You know well that if there is a prior conditionality that is not closed as a topic, there is a risk that the European Commission will revise funding in the sector concerned. The mechanism for monitoring the progress of preliminary conventions has been developed by me since 2012, so rest assured that I am taking due consideration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u203	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Mr. Anastasov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u204	Thank you for your reply, Deputy Prime Minister. As I have told you before, all the topics and concerns I share here with you are only in order not to miss important moments in the negotiations. I've also told you about Isun 2020. Yes, I agree that ex ante conditions are something that is a common effort of all governments and must be pursued to the end. However, I am particularly concerned about the ex ante conditions in the water sector, which are many. I would ask you in a very short time at the end what direction did the negotiations on the scope of the sector take place in the Operational Programme "Environment" 2014-2020? Were we able to maintain the approach to finance projects over 2,000? the equivalent of residents, or have we lost the battle and remain those who are only over 10,000, which will affect most of the settlements and agglomerations in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u205	Thank you. Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u206	I'll be very specific. In the final phase of the negotiations, at least the one that took place in the past week, the main points were those that I commented on a short time ago. In this sense, the issue of scope has not been reopened. In any case, from three-day negotiations, one day was separated only to the Operational Programme "Environment" and to the dispute when the projects started, the so-called "priority projects" and a large part of which are phased out by this programming period, and a discussion on beneficiaries. For one reason or another, this particular issue has not been discussed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u207	Thank you. Ms. Svetlana Angelova, GERB. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! One of the important decisions the government made at the end of last year is to propose a long-term solution to the issues of pension reform by 31 March. In response to this in early 2015, under the leadership of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin, a working group was formed with the participation of representatives from trade unions, employers' organisations, institutions, universal pension funds, experts and institutions. Members of parliament from all parliamentary political parties were invited as well as an independent MP. The idea was to seek agreement from a wide range of experts and political parties on this extremely important topic, to work out and offer long-term solutions to our pension system to be protected in subsequent years from possible changes. For nearly three months this working group has been working hard and responsible. There were presented and discussed at meetings of the working group dozens of proposals for improvement of the pension model and the development of the Bulgarian pension system. The task force's work is done. In this regard, my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin is: what is the government's policy regarding yesterday's reform of the pension system? What measures will you take, who are the affected groups and individuals and overcoming any difficulties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u209	Thank you, too. Mr. Kalfin, please come in for an answer within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mrs. Angelova, indeed, as we had made a commitment yesterday, we presented the views and results after conducting all consultations in the broadest range, which you also mentioned, which will be placed by the end of this week for a public discussion on the page of the Council of Ministers and of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. In April this is the procedure, public consultation, public discussion, discussion at the National Council for Tripartite Partnership. I will be available to parliamentary groups in Parliament for preliminary consultations, clarification, so my ambition is at the beginning of May the Council of Ministers will finally decide what changes will be tabled and then I am counting that the National Assembly will be able to consolidate and accept these amendments to close the issue by the end of the summer session. You're asking about the affected persons. Perhaps this is one of the spheres that affects every Bulgarian citizen. What we are trying to do, and what we are proposing, and the purpose of these changes is to make the pension system more stable, strengthened, self-sufficient and be able to provide a sufficiently high income to people who receive pensions. On the contrary, as many governments have done so far, stopping this problem I hear proposals for freezing all changes now means that after about ten years, in this demographic picture in Bulgaria, we will have one even more incapable of adequate income pension system. So the changes are really necessary. It is a matter of responsibility both political and public, both political forces and social partners, to make the compromises they could make so that we adopt an option that is widely supported enough. In general, what we are proposing is a long-term period in which to strengthen both revenues and the costs of the pension system in which to close the gaps and in which to ensure that the changes that are taking place are as soft as possible for both people and businesses. Yes, we are talking about concrete measures for better revenue collection and specific measures related to access to the pension system, including age, internship, categorical workers. What remains to be clarified in the coming days, too, is how age will be introduced for employees in the sector "Secure" and to clear the right mechanism. The concept of disability pensions is clear. What I want to tell you, in any case, is that all these changes are made with care for people and with a commitment that those who retire actually have the opportunity to get good income. We are also introducing a new mechanism that allows, in the case of a budget, the Swiss rule to update pensions annually. We are also introducing a lot of changes that restore justice to the pension system, as people who are currently retiring or are about to retire are under extremely uneven conditions. So the whole change is really long-term, there are over thirty measures in it and it is aimed at the Bulgarian citizens to have more confidence and confidence that the pension system will provide them with good income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u211	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. Mrs. Angelova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues! I thank Minister Kalfin for his answer. These changes, Minister Kalfin, are really necessary and necessary to achieve the so desired financial stability, independence and security of the Bulgarian pension system. They are the key to finding a long-term solution to solving the accumulated problems in the pension system in Bulgaria and establishing a lasting model. These changes will lead to security and clarity both for the current and for the future pensioners, and last but not least will lead to the so-called income and increase of the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners. On behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, I would like to thank you for the work you have done well during these three months and for keeping to the word that by 31 March 2015 the basic parameters for the changes in the pension system will be made. I wish you success in the coming days of consultation. I hope you will receive maximum support from the social partners and political parties and we are waiting for these proposals in the National Assembly for discussion and voting soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u213	A hole, Mr. Kalfin? [[Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin is giving up the doppelganger.]] Thank you. We are continuing with the Reformation Block Group. A question will ask Mr. Antony Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u214	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, fellow Members! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Donchev. Yesterday, some information came out that the participations of European partners Eni, EDF and Winter Shell have been bought out. Given that the Bulgarian Energy Holding is also involved in this company, can we expect its shares to be bought out as well? The investment in which it is concerned is significant is about 200 million. lv. We would be grateful if you could tell us how the Bulgarian country participates in the whole process of buying the shares of the already closed South Stream? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u215	Thank you, Mr. Trenchev. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! In general, in the things I do in my work, I avoid improvisation. In particular, any kind of improvisation should be avoided from the parliamentary tribune. In this sense, do not expect me to comment on publications from the media, also to talk about a topic on which I have not seen any documentary mark. Wait a few days after a week, within regular parliamentary control, even outside any parliamentary procedure, if your topic is of interest, I could provide you with information. I have not done a punctuality check in the Bulgarian companies in question what was proposed, so I could not provide you with specific information, and, as I said at the beginning, we do not need improvisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u217	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your answer, especially how honest he was. I also agree with what you said about improvisation. The way he was improvised in the media, it's like a done deal. So I took the liberty of asking that question. I thought the buy-in was a done deal. I call on you to actually see what can be recovered from these small funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u219	Will you use the hole, Mr. Donchev? No. Now the group of the Bulgarian... on the Patriotic Front is next. Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u220	Bulgarian Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u221	Maybe so, but in time. Today is the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front. [[Replication by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov aside from the microphones: "Bulgarian always stands well in front of everything else."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u222	Madam President, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable Prime Minister... He's gone somewhere. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, following the votes and adopted by the National Assembly Law imposing a moratorium on exports and the transport of raw wood, we receive numerous signals about the accelerated execution of mass logging in various areas of the country. The signals are supported by photographs and witnessing materials. This gives the impression of the retroactive effect of the adopted Law on the imposition of a moratorium. In this regard, I ask you to answer the question: is there information in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food or the Ministry of Interior on large-scale logging authorised or illegal, is there a carry-over of raw wood in the direction of Member States of the European Union, in particular Greece and Turkey, naturally? Is the Law on the moratorium on the export of wood in relation to the other neighbouring countries of Bulgaria being implemented and are there any attempts to smuggle and penalties imposed for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u223	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. To whom is your question, who will answer this question? Mr. Donchev hired a gentleman to answer that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u224	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr Simeonov! I could not now provide you with accurate data on the movement and volumes of wood moving within the territory of the country or export attempts for Member States or third countries. But from the information that is coming to us, we do not have confirmation of what you are currently sharing about the counterproductive effect, i.e. the increased intensity of illegal and legal logging. We don't have that kind of information. However, I would like to assure you that we are working with everyone, not just with the entire resources of the state, with all interested, including citizens, NGOs, for which the conservation of the Bulgarian forest is a priority. We have had many meetings with them, as far as I think the better option is when we have a common goal of working together and achieving concrete results, and not just explaining ourselves in the morning in TV studios. You can see for yourself that there are a number of concrete measures that the Ministry of Agriculture is mainly taking. Not only by increasing control, new afforestation campaigns. Both should be the main accents. Let me point out that in the long term, the moratorium imposed is hardly the only and universal measure that will solve all the problems that we have with legal and illegal logging, as far as I believe we have problems with both. Here, first of all, we are talking about the state exhausting all its potential from the point of view of control functions. Of course, as other economic mechanisms it is appropriate to raise the question that much higher added value is formed in the Bulgarian economy, if much more of the wood is processed here in Bulgaria, because these are new jobs, new revenues to the budget and not to be exported in raw form, here the profit is the least. But these are economic instruments that are not only in the hands of the Ministry of Agriculture. As for the interaction with all interested, including non-governmental organisations, the idea was discussed, in so far as some of them have created platforms, where in real time signals related to illegal logging can be issued, the strong position of mine and my colleagues was that if there are similar centres and platforms where signals are received, it is not the work of activists of non-governmental organizations to go and in direct clash to combat those who engage in illegal logging. These signals need to be traced immediately to the relevant services, a function of the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as the Ministry of Home Affairs, and an initial arrangement has been reached in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u225	For a line, Mr. Vassilev. Simeonov... It came to me from renaming your group, not to be offended that I didn't personally baptize you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u226	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Thanks for the answer. You see, he's not very punctual, he's not full. I got an answer in principle. The main question remains pending. After the imposition of the moratorium, is there a lumber hauling, that is what we are most interested in, in the direction of Greece, possibly Romania, but more of Greece. If there is such an export, it means that we have not stopped and we have not created conditions to stop this clearing legally and illegally. My request is, if it is possible that after an inspection is carried out within some normal time limit, we do not want to ask the question again, we agree to get a written answer, how it is actually applied, is this moratorium being applied effectively for export? That's what we're interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u227	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u228	Dear Mr. Simeonov, I have an excellent memory and I can boast that I know many things. In addition, I admit that I could hardly supply you with specific information about the traffic of each commodity in any direction that comes in Bulgaria, even for such sensitive goods as wood. As I said just now, I'm going to purposely draw attention to this particular nuance of the subject that you have raised. I have a request for you: if there are specific signals with you, please give them to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u229	Thank you. The question will now be asked by the group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Mr. Rosen Petrov will develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u230	Dear Madam President, dear co-chairs! My question is to the Minister of Interior Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova. He's like this. In connection with the construction of the facility at the Bulgarian-Turkish border, which is not going at a particularly stable pace, as far as I am aware of media publications, is the composition of Border Police to stop the possible flow of refugees, which will occur after 15 - 20 days with warming of time?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u231	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u232	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Petrov! I can assure you that the construction of the protective facility is a priority. However, a series of steps are needed before its realization begins. At the end of this week, I will personally be present and I will talk to the regional managers, who have been in the phase for several days to start designing this facility. It will, unfortunately, not happen in this period when we expect an increase in the immigration wave. That is why we have provided for other measures related to cooperation by the Bulgarian Army, which I will inform you about when they are specified. We monitor the process and are ready for any possible measures we have to respond adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u233	A line, Mr. Petrov? You won't use it. Mr. Todorov will develop a question from the parliamentary group of the party.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u234	Mrs. Chairman, colleagues, gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova. Dear Minister, a few days ago the Bulgarian society witnessed another brazen gypsy provocation. In the square. "Hope," gr. Sliven, the cameras of Nova TV record gypsies chanting: The Bulgarians of mincemeat! The Bulgarians are in direct violation of art. 162 of the Penal Code, which is punishable by imprisonment from one to four years and with a fine of 5 thousand. up to 10,000. BGN, as well as with public reprimand. In this regard, Mrs. Bachvarova, please answer me: are the persons of the district being detained? "Hope" "Hope" "Hope". Sliven, who have chanted: The Bulgarians of mincemeat! The Bulgarians on soap! Are there pre-trial proceedings against the Gypsies who have allowed themselves to preach and instigate violence and hatred towards the Bulgarians?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u235	For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, Vice-Presidents correctly react that it is not a common policy, but on a specific occasion, but Mrs. Bachvarova is ready to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u236	Madam President, this case is too specific for me to answer. I can assure you that I will check and inform you of the specifics of this case, because you are currently quoting a media event. [[Replys from "Attacka."]] I'll check and let you know.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u237	The line, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u238	Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, the issue is too up-to-date because this is just another insolent statement by gypsies who, if you look at the actuality, even today, a gypsy with a stone has smashed the head of a woman in the city. Sandanski, a few days ago gypsies killed a Bulgarian in town. Pravet. Every day, we are witnessing yet another blatant outrage, theft, murder, rape by the gypsies who harass Bulgarian citizens. The Bulgarians are already forced to sleep with their animals in the stables, so as not to be stolen from the gypsies. Just two days ago, we saw a 40-50 herd of lambs being stolen in Burgas. If this is not relevant to you, then for us from "Attack" is more than actual. Let me remind you that a month and a half ago, two of us asked the former Interior Minister Mr. Vuchkov the question: what is ultimately done to prevent this insolent and unpardonable Gypsy crime? We've heard phrases again, we'll work, we'll see, we'll put cameras... The result so far is still zero, it is not enough that the whole Bulgarian society is forced to support the many Gypsy families. We, of course, have proposed a bill to stop the phenomenon of children giving birth to children and all the hardworking Bulgarians supporting them. You all, of course, on committees, reject it. He hasn't been in the voting room for six months. I don't see why you're saying this isn't an actual issue.! Don't you realize that things have already taken such a frightening size? Let's tell the truth in the eyes: Gypsies are currently outlawing all over Bulgaria and there is no country to stop them! This is ridiculous! [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u239	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u240	Madam President! I can assure you that this is not about the fact that the issue is not up to date, but that it is not about the common policy. Another in which I would like to assure you that the authorities of the Ministry of Interior are acting in the same way with regard to Bulgarian citizens, without dividing them into ethnicities. In this sense, special action against an individual ethnic group... I do not think it is the right policy. With all the strictness of the law to all who violate it, this is the principle. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mrs. Dukova, you wanted procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u242	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u243	Here you are, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u244	Dear Madam President, Ministers, Deputy Prime Minister! It has become practical, Madam President, that this control becomes a serious manifestation of some of the colleagues, given that the cameras are on. I believe that the word should not be given, especially in a broad, not-so-intelligent speech, in my opinion, in which to say nothing and essentially make negative policy. Here the specifics are clear and simple to ask questions related to politics. Everything else may be happening in Friday's control where it belongs, although in my opinion and my humble opinion of such matters is never the time or place. Thank you. [[Private applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. [[Noise and lines from Attack.]] It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u246	Madam President, my request to you is when MPs from GERB so abuse, just take their word. Mrs. Dukova, isn't this a policy that protects the lives, health and property of Bulgarian citizens? Isn't that state policy?! [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u247	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. I will take advantage of your call, and whenever a Member of the National Assembly is off the subject, I will take the floor. We are moving on to a question from the ABB Parliamentary Group. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u248	Madam President, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have an extremely short question for Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev. I would like to receive information on the progress made in the implementation of the Public Procurement Bill. The Public Procurement Act was provided for in the Government Program for Intergovernmental Consistency in February 2015. The adoption of this regulation will have great importance for the future functioning and regulation of the state administration, trade turnover, absorption and spending of funds both in the budget and in the European programmes. In this regard, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you: have the final texts of this regulation been drawn up, have the ministries been given specific proposals for coordination, are they synchronised with European norms? When are possible public discussions and the bill submitted to the National Assembly for consideration scheduled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u249	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u250	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I absolutely agree that the Public Procurement Act is one of the most important, most critical regulations for a number of reasons. It focuses the interests of huge groups of people and institutions both in the public and private sectors. A huge part of the national budget, as well as European funding, is distributed through public procurement. By marking the chronology, I will note that Bulgaria in the Public Procurement Strategy, which has been communicated and approved by the European Commission, has undertaken that the texts of the Law are ready in December 2014. The fact is that there is no way you can hold me responsible that for a month from November to December 2014, we have not been able to develop the Law. Directly on your question: Currently, the texts of the Law are at 95% ready. A working group is used to order Prime Minister Lukarski to be chairman of the working group, I have the honour to control its implementation. The task is to make all departments, i.e. all ministries, by the texts which have been produced to a great extent by the experts of the Public Procurement Agency. If there are considerations relating to the proposed texts, remove them or edit them, then it will immediately begin.. which is a style, which is a practice that is standard public discussion with all interested parties. Moreover, in order not to waste time, realizing that if there are any radical ideas from all stakeholders, industry organisations and the National Association of Municipalities, I asked all of them in November to include key proposals that in the phase of developing texts. These proposals, which may become part of the fabric of the law, are consistent. When will the text be on the National Assembly's attention? In any case, I am counting on this to be before the middle of this year, so that the committees and the MPs can work on these texts at the latest in the autumn. I merely remind you that the time limit for transposition of the directives, which is one of the reasons for the development of a new law, expires in April 2016. In terms of coordination with the European institutions, we have no problem. Ambition is the law to enter into force from 1 January 2016, that is, as I mentioned earlier, to be adopted at the latest autumn by the National Assembly. What we didn't pay attention to, because we focused on chronology, two are the main reasons to think about a new law. One, of course, is the transposition of the new directives in the field of public procurement, but the greater reason is the experience gained in recent years, especially the fact that the old law has long failed to fulfil the functions it has to perform. It has a build-up of orimentary formations, it is too complex, which, by the way, is one of the reasons very often to make mistakes, namely the complexity of the old law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u251	A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u252	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. I express my personal satisfaction with your response and, as you have said, this is an extremely important and delicate matter at the same time, as at the present time my personal opinion is that it is precisely the large contracting entities in the face of municipalities that are in difficulty and there are prerequisites for insufficient implementation of large infrastructure projects on the ground, delays in time limits and so on. The question raised is of utmost importance. Thank you again for your answer. I wish you good luck in your endeavor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u253	A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u254	It's strange to use the backrest, provided that we're moving in mutual agreement mode, but confirming everything I've said, I'd like to add that it's naive to believe that only one legal act would solve all the problems. Even if we have a brilliantly developed Public Procurement Act, part of the pain that we have, violations, appeals will remain, the law cannot solve them. The law gives the frame. Much of the problems are how the law is applied, but I am also convinced that the new texts will also give new opportunities, because the task that has been submitted to all experts is that the text implies as simple, clarity and intuitive as it may suggest. One of the big problems is that the processes are too complex, and the main focus is in the direction of simplification. For example, the presentation of multiple declarations, documents that are now required, are replaced by only one declaration by the applicant. Just one! As a second focus is the presentation of documents to be replaced by an official check. The law also establishes the legal basis for electronic award, which is also imperative and cannot be commented. I believe that, as a legal environment, we will give new opportunities, including some of the awards, to take much less time, because time is a factor not only when we are talking about spending budget funding, especially when we are talking about European money. It is our common responsibility that the money resource is the fastest to become good for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u255	Last question for today from Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u256	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, deputy prime ministers, colleagues! I have a question for Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Meglena Kuneva as a principal overseeing the work of the Ministry of Defense. Mrs. Kuneva, on 9 March this year, Minister of Military Affairs Nenchev dismissed the Chief of Military Information, the so-called Military Intelligence of the Republic of Bulgaria. I have the following questions for you: Do you approve, have you given your consent to this personnel strike, as it is about the dismissal of a professional, and then fired with the motive for operational incompatibility? My next question is: Is Colonel Veselin Ivanov operationally incompatible, discharged in substance disciplinaryly, in a moment I will say why, and is the new candidate compatible for this job still not appointed.Yordan Bakalov, a purely political appointment, which has neither a gram of expertise? The third question I would like to ask you, Mrs. Kuneva is: did you support Mr. Veselin Ivanov's refusal to hand over the cases to his collaborators in the Middle East and in the Balkans, and do you think that the new Chief of Military Information should do so? I would also like to ask you a question: do you think that Mr. Bakalov, without any military censure, without any military training, could be a professional head of the service - Military information - where expertise is particularly important - is a highly specialised military institution? In general: do you approve of the behaviour and attitude of Minister Nenchev to the service of Military Information and his true hatred of military intelligence? And the most important question: do you approve of the political purgatory that we can read in his statement that 39% of the Military Information Board is to be fired because it was appointed in 1989? Do you approve of his behavior and his actions, which are essentially political repression? [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u257	Mr. Enchev, I cannot allow your questions not only because you are entitled to one, but you have asked at least four questions. Secondly, several times today I refer explicitly to the wording of art. No. 104, para. 1. In your honor, I will not read it again, please do this. The question is unacceptable, which is why there is no way to give the Deputy Prime Minister to whom you asked him the answer. Due to the completion of the plenary day, I am closing the plenary session. Tomorrow at 9:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-01.u258	I merely clarify that issues containing personal data, name information, including respect, are put in writing and are inadmissible for oral control, as is blitz control. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
