ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Please register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I am opening the plenary session, which is extraordinary, according to our decision adopted last week. I recall the points of the extraordinary plenary sitting: 1. Projects for decisions to complete the compositions of permanent and temporary committees. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forest Equipment. We reached the Transitional and Final Provisions on Friday. 3. Second vote on the Bill implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the prohibition of the use, storage, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and of their destruction. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Road Transport Act. 5. Second vote on the Bill of Accounting. 6. A bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on providing logistical support for MiG-29 aircraft. 7. Draft Decision on the adoption of the Defence Capacity Development Programme of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 and on the determination of the number of armed forces. Several messages: By letter No 554-00-703 of 20 November 2015, the People's Representative Nastimir Ananiev informed me that on the basis of art. 82 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly withdraw its signature as an importer of a Draft Law amending the Law on Road Transport, No 554-01-178, submitted on 19 November 2015. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u2	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to propose that we draw up point 6th and 7th in the future, the two points that concern the armed forces and the treaty that was signed with the Polish State for repair and maintenance of MiG aircraft engines. Our proposal with our colleagues from the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group is that they become points three and four, that is, immediately after point two, the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forest Equipment, to look at points six and seven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u3	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Slavov's proposal points six and seven to become points three and four respectively, and the rest to be drawn along the new numbering. Isn't that right, Mr. Slavov? We vote. They voted 137 MPs: 53, against 12, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to point one: PROJECTS FOR THE COMPLETION OF STANDING AND TEMPORARY COMMITMENTS. Two proposals from GERB group, one proposal from BSP left Bulgaria and one proposal from Mr. Iglev. By letter No 554-02-96 of 19 November 2015, Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Tsveta Karayancheva submitted the following: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on the Environment and Water The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Hristo Grudev Grudev as a member of the Committee on Environment and Water. The allocation of quotas is kept. Mr. Grudev was the last to take the oath after the changes that took place in the parliamentary group in relation to elected MPs for mayors of municipalities. Are there any speeches? I won't. Please vote on the draft decision. They voted 144 MPs: for 144, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The second draft decision was submitted by letter No 554 02 97 of 19 November 2015: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Education and Science The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Stefan Stainov Zhelev as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. Statements? I won't. Please vote. They voted 133 MPs: 130, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. With a letter in my letter. No 554-02-98 of 19 November 2015 Mr. Mihail Mikov, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the Temporary Commission to discuss the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Mikhail Raykov Mikov as a member of the Temporary Commission to discuss the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. I am making it clear that, according to our decision, the composition of this Commission is determined by a membership of two Members of Parliament from a parliamentary group. After Mrs. Maya Manolova's group of BSP left Bulgaria filled the quota with the proposal Mr. Mikov to become a member of this Commission. Statements? I won't. We vote. Vote 139 MPs: 138, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The last Project for a solution is with an I.D. No 554-02-100 from 20 November 2015 to Mr. Borislav Iglev, who offers the following Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Velizar Penkov Enchev as a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose that Mr. Velizar Enchev be a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. My motive for this is that he was a member of this Commission before leaving the Patriot Front Group. Velizar Enchev is active, has a civil position before and after becoming MPs. Velizar Enchev received extremely many complaints as a MP. The Commission shall have an explicit seat of a Member of the National Assembly who shall not be members of a parliamentary group. This is published in the Official Journal. In this way, there will be no double standards, we will respect the highest law. The Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, there will be no MPs with privileges and MPs without privileges. That's why I'm asking for his support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u5	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. I'm voting on Mr. Iglev's proposal. They voted 130 MPs: 46, against 57, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u6	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u7	Here you go. Did you vote against yourself? [[Loud noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please be quiet. Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against it to take the floor and say things that are public secret. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Revelations: "Eeeee! "]] GERB MPs refuse to allow me to work in a parliamentary committee, which is a violation of both the Constitution and the Charter of Human Rights of the UN and the practice in all countries of the European Union, without exception. Why do you, in the middle part of the Chamber and your coalition partners in the right part of the Chamber, not allow an independent MP to work in the parliamentary committee on civil organisations and foreign policy and, most importantly, have the right to vote in the adoption of laws? I immediately reply to you: because you of GERB party are a totalitarian party and are afraid of the foreign opinion, which does not coincide with yours. Because GERB does not want to allow a critic of Prime Minister Borisov to exercise the right to vote in a parliamentary committee, as this is the command of your chief, and it says: "Cut the opposition when you can and where you can! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And finally. Soon the European Parliament will rule on this anti-democratic act of GERB and its coalition partners, and, in turn, on the inside, I will refer to the Ombudsman of the Republic with the request he to challenge [[GERB loud noise]] in the Constitutional Court, this is your anti-democratic decision. But why am I talking about democracy today and here?! GERB and democracy are two mutually exclusive concepts. GERB is the dictator's party Boyko Borisov! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u9	Colleagues! Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR REGISTERATION AND CONTROL OF THE EARTH AND THE GORGEEN TECHNOLOGY. In the meeting of Friday, we reached § 25, which should be reported. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u10	Madam President, before we proceed to the final texts of the Law, I ask that you grant the gentlemen a pass...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u11	They're admitted. They can get in if they're here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u12	Okay, thanks. Under § 25 there is a proposal of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and the National Representative Dobrin Danev. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 38. The proposal of the Members of the National Assembly: The following amendments shall be made in § 25: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The law with the employees and employees of the closed inspection shall be governed under the terms and conditions of art. 87a of the Law on the Civil Service and Art. 123 of the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u13	Statements? Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposal we are making is, accordingly, the employment relations of those employed in the Control-Technical Inspection to pass on to the new structures, which will be carried out in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Our arguments are as follows. First, in 2015 there were two consecutive redundancies in the control-technical inspection and of 125 or 126 people, they are currently 100 constantly employed. Secondly, in the Law that you voted on to change the management of the Control-Technical Inspection, paragraphs 3 to 5, you propose that their activities should not be liquidated, but that they should be transferred to the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which means that the Control-Technical Inspection is not in liquidation procedure. In addition, in the previous text of the Law...................................................................................... It follows from the conclusion and the hypothesis that those currently employed in the Control-Technical Inspection must pass on employment relationships which are under art. 123, i.e. a change of employer, and under art. 87 of the Civil Service Act, as we have a change of administration. Our proposal relates to the rights of these people who are employed to go directly to the district services so that they can carry out their duties. Furthermore, I would like to tell you that in the Control-Technical Inspection works an extremely specialized administration and the proposal that is being made to stay and go into service directors and departments seems a little excessive in terms of the concern that it is necessary to really carry out the work within the framework of the existing commitments, especially to the European Commission, and therefore there need to be people who know what this is about, because it is not normal to have a lust in the implementation of the regulatory documents just because there is no well-prepared administration. Our proposal, which I would like to propose to you for a vote and which will accordingly be the right decision, because all those whom you release today and do not go to work in the district directorates will accordingly sue the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and all cases will be won for the simple reason that they are legally entitled to seek, respectively, through the court, the restoration of their rights. I'd like to ask, then, where will the compensation come from for these 50 or 60 people who will be released? Our proposal is indeed that we pay attention to this finding that the Office is not in liquidation and its employment relationships are to be decided under art. Article 123 of the Labour Code and Article 123 of the Labour Code. 87 of the Civil Service Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u15	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? There are no speakers. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Georgi Bojinov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 106 MPs: 25, against 54, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 38. They voted 105 MPs: for 91, against 14, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u16	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 39. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs for the creation of § 26 The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish paragraphs 40 and 41: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... The licences issued until the entry into force of this Act for the conduct of the training activity of applicants for the acquisition of a licence to work with a technique shall remain valid until the expiry of the period for which they have been issued. § 41. Vehicles of types for which type-approval of the complete vehicle has been obtained under the law of the Member State of the European Union introducing Directive 2003/37/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 May 2003 concerning type-approval of agricultural or forestry tractors, their trailers and coupling equipment, together with their systems, components and separate technical units, and repealing Directive 74/150/EEC, may be registered, placed on the market or put into service until 31 December 2017. New vehicles of types not subject to type-approval pursuant to the Directive referred to in the first sentence may be registered or placed into service until 31 December 2017 in accordance with the law of the Member State of the European Union in which they are placed into use or registered.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u17	Statements under paragraphs 39, 40 and 41? I won't. We vote enblock three paragraphs. They voted 102 MPs: 88 against 9, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 42. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 46. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 32, which becomes § 47: ss ss s s s s s The Law shall enter into force from 1 January 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u19	Statements by paragraphs 42 to 47 on the Commission's numbering? I won't. Anblok, we vote paragraphs 42 to 47 inclusive. They voted 106 MPs: 91, against 10, abstention 5. The proposal is adopted, and with this at second reading and the Bill as a whole. The next item is: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION TO ENFORCEMENT THE CONVENTION FOR THE CASES AND THE CONVENTION FOR THE FORGET OF USE, CODEING, PRODUCTION AND TRANSFER OF PROVOPECTION MINES AND FOR THE THING. A report from the Defence Committee. Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Report on a bill implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the prohibition of the use, storage, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and of their destruction. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of the name of the Law: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u21	Statements on the name of the bill? I won't. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u22	"Chapter 1" "General provisions". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u23	We vote. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u24	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. This Law lays down: 1. the conditions and procedures for carrying out the activities authorised under the Convention on Munitions, drawn up in Dublin, Ireland on 30 May 2008. (Ratified by Law, SG No. 16/ 2011; SG No. 16/2011; SG No. 75, 2011) and the Convention on the prohibition of the use, storage, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and of their destruction in Oslo, Norway on 18 September 1997. (Rated by law............................................................................................... 93 of 1998; SG No. 68 from 1999; Convention on landmines); 2. control of the activities under point 2. 1; 3. the provision of assistance to victims of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u25	Statements under art. 1? I won't. Vote art. 1 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Procedure for admission of guests in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u26	Madam President, I ask that Krasimir Tsipov be admitted to the Chamber. Deputy Minister of the Interior, Emil Angelov, Head of the Department of Public Health and Kristiana Lazarova, Head of the Department of Normal Activity, all from the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u27	I put to the vote the motion made for admission of the representatives of the executive during the debates and the vote on this Law. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u28	The Commission proposes to create a new art. 2: Art. 2. Any activities with cluster ammunition, anti-personnel mines and/or explosive elements shall be prohibited, with the exception of those authorised under the Convention on cluster ammunition and the Convention on anti-personnel mines.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u29	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the new article. 2 on a proposal from the Commission and reflected in its report. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u30	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2 which becomes art. 3: Art. 3. (1) Cassette ammunition shall be conventional ammunition designed to disperse or release explosive elements, each weighing less than 20 kg. (2) No cluster ammunition: 1. ammunition or explosive devices designed to disperse fire, smoke, pyrotechnic substances or radar jammers or ammunition designed exclusively for the purpose of anti-aircraft defence; 2. ammunition or parts of ammunition designed to create electrical or electronic impacts; 3. ammunition which, in order to prevent non-selective impact on a large area and the risks created by unexploded explosive elements, have the following characteristics: (a) each of the ammunition contains less than 10 cases of explosive elements; b) each of the explosive elements has a mass greater than 4 kg.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (c) each of the explosive elements shall be designed to detect and strike one target; (d) each of the explosive elements shall be equipped with an electronic self-destruct mechanism; and (e) each of the explosive elements shall be equipped with an electronic self-activating mechanism.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u31	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 3 in the version of the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 83, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u32	The Commission proposes to create a new art. 4. Art. 4 (1) An anti-personnel mine is a mine designed to be detonated by the presence, proximity or contact with a person and which disables, hurts or kills one or more persons. (2) Mines equipped with non-abuse devices and intended to be detonated by presence, proximity or contact only with a vehicle shall not be considered as anti-personnel mines. (3) The mines shall be ammunition designed to be placed under, on or near the ground or other surface and shall be detonated by the presence, proximity or contact with a person or vehicle.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u33	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u34	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to make a proposal for editing, as it is so proposed, the text does not sound at least stylistic. My editor is to be: he strikes one or more persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u35	Where is that? Instead of hurting or killing one person or more? Instead of this text?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u36	Yeah. Injures or kills one or more persons. It practically has the same meaning, but stylistically it's more correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u37	Can you say it one last time, because you said it first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u38	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 1 after the comma after the word "built," hurt or kills." Here we do one or more people. Instead of one or more people. The editing is stylistic.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u39	Do you include the animals here?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u40	The animal can't be a face.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u41	Would the mine be anti-personnel if it was stepped on by an animal? This isn't about you. Replies to Mr. Bayraktarov's statement? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u42	Thank you, Madam President. A brief reply to the proposal and supplement. If a person is to be accepted, at least indicate a person of a physical nature. It's more correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u43	Well, legal entities can't step on an anti-personnel mine. [[Loud laughter, raging in the hall.]] - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Mr. Bajraktarov, can I unite the proposals in general with the concreteization of the physical person, or do you insist that it be only your proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u44	Together.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u45	Together. I put to the vote the editorial proposals made in this House instead of one or more people to be recorded one or more individuals. Vote 97 MPs: 81, against 2, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the full version of art. 4 with the editorial amendment made in plenary. They voted 91 MPs: 85, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u46	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 3, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 36. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 4 but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 2 "Actives with cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u47	Statements by the name of Chapter Two? I won't. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 2. The other two texts will be voted in their systematic locations. There's no way to vote that they're rejected. Vote 98 MPs: 94, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u48	Under art. 5 has a proposal from the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Milen Mihov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5, para. 1, t. The following amendments shall be made: The words "importance" or "lmportance" shall be dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. Art. 5. (1) The following activities shall be authorised under the Convention on cluster ammunition and the Convention on landmines: 1. the possession, transport, import or export of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and other state bodies only for the purpose of development and training in techniques for detection, cleansing, disposal or destruction of cluster ammunition, explosive elements and anti-personnel mines, or for the development of countermeasures; 2. the transport, import or export of cluster ammunition and landmines for destruction; 3. the destruction of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines. (2) The activities under para. 1, t. 2 and 3 shall be carried out after obtaining authorisation under the terms and conditions of this law. (3) No authorisation shall be required to carry out the activities under para. 1, t. 2 and 3, when they are carried out by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. (4) When carrying out the activities under para. 1 state authorities are obliged to take measures to ensure the safety of the population and to protect the environment. (5) Quantities of cluster ammunition, explosive elements and anti-personnel mines for the purposes of para. 1, t. 1 shall not exceed the minimum number of items required.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u49	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In fact, here is the first sable moment in the Bill. Today you, with your votes, first of all, will show whether you are really honest, whether you do not apply hypocrisy to the Bulgarian people and to the national security of Bulgaria, because the question arises: what needs to be imported old ammunition, most of which have very controversial physical properties? Why should we turn Bulgaria, using the two conventions, into a plazdarm and an easy target for terrorist attacks, importing undefined quantities of ammunition? Over the years, they've taken dozens of innocent lives. Not to mention the events in Gorni Lom, the events near the village of Lozenets, Chelopech and the bizarre story of 1 million. 200,000 Greek anti-personnel mines, which in a strange way were imported into Bulgaria. Most importantly, please note: with the import authorisation, the Government Decision No 225 bans the import of ammunition is being circumvented. What are the reasons for this decision of the government? First of all, preserve the reputation of the Republic of Bulgaria. Secondly, to protect Bulgaria and the Bulgarian state from additional costs for the security and destruction of these ammunition, as is the case with the mines in Gorni Lom. Currently the Bulgarian state is paying a lot of money for security, and subsequently it will also have to pay for the destruction, as the company that was supposed to destroy these ammunition has a license revoked and it cannot carry out these activities. In the Defence Committee, I must share with you, who has read the transcript that no arguments have been given for the authorisation of imports. No arguments. Today we need, first of all, to think about Bulgaria's national security, especially in this complex situation of terrorist activity. Who and how will ensure the preservation of whole compositions from third countries, which will seek to rid themselves of old ammunition in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Who? And I call on you, colleagues, to support this proposal because it is in favour of the national security of Bulgaria, in favour of the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian people. There is not a single binding text in the two conventions that obliges us to import old ammunition. No such text exists in the Convention. Moreover, the Ministry of Defence itself has not expressed an opinion as to whether it wants such imports to take place. Naturally, we have left the opportunity to have limited imports in order to train the Armed Forces, because we believe that they should qualify and train in the destruction of such ammunition, but from then on we should turn Bulgaria into an explosive depot, to create targets for terrorist acts is anti-national. I urge all Members of the National Assembly to come to the Chamber and vote because this amendment is extremely important. It's extremely important! And what's more, I'm going to want to hear from the majority counter thesis on what requires the import of such ammunition. Let's get into a debate, not just push the buttons without debate. Because this is an extremely dangerous exercise that is being passed through this Law, and we cannot afford to support it and accept it in this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Do you have any lines? No. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Just because Mr. Bayraktarov wants to have a debate, I'll take the floor. You're wrong, Mr. Bayraktarov. You heard a lot of arguments in the Commission. I'll repeat some of them here. I don't know why you don't agree with them. You have your own arguments. I'll repeat some of them and add something you probably don't know, or it didn't get to you. Should there be imports of such cluster ammunition and landmines? Conventions which are transposed directly do not impose such a prohibition. It's written there. It's a transfer. We have requested an interpretation of this concept from the portfolio ministry, and it says: whether import, export or transfer, it is the same. I'll read it to you. That's the first argument. We don't have to make our own restrictions. In addition, you yourself mentioned that there are other mechanisms that allow such a restriction to be made. The Council of Ministers of March this year imposed a moratorium on imports of old utilisation ammunition. Nothing prevents any government from doing the same thing to make a moratorium if it considers it necessary to interrupt or not carry out such activities any year, month or other time. Furthermore, remember that when we import cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines from neighbouring countries or countries where there are, for example, Bulgarian servicemen, it may be safer to bring them in with our qualifications and our specialists here to be destroyed and not to be a danger to our people in a neighbouring country, for example. I don't want to point. This option why not open with such a word? Finally, there are three opinions that are in front of me. I will only read you one, according to art. 80 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, where we ask the Ministry of Economy what it thinks about it and it answers us. This is a response from 7 October 2015. They say that the Convention on cluster ammunition allows the transfer of cluster ammunition to another country for destruction, regardless of the provisions of art. 1 and so on. On the basis of the above, we support the preservation of the current texts in art. 5, para. 1, t. Art. 2 and Art. 2 25 of the Bill. "I mean, they offer to remain the words................... which you propose to reject.................................................................... Also before me is the position of the Chairman of the Association of the Bulgarian Defence Industry Stefan Vodenicharov: There is another opinion from the biggest companies that stand quite firmly behind the position: we are firmly against dropping out and so on. Those are our arguments, and I think we should respect them rather than your arguments that sound emotional to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u53	Thank you, Mr. Radev. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Radev, first of all, you brought in a slight distortion. The term "import" and the term "transfer" do not mean the same thing. I have bothered to consult with the best specialists in this area. Some of them are highly respected generals of the Bulgarian Army. Including yesterday's consultation. Transfer means to transfer ammunition across a country. However, if the country that is between the two countries, for example Bulgaria and Italy, it may not allow such a transfer. Do you understand what this is about? Because the Convention deals with very serious rules on transport and storage, to which rules, for example, Macedonia will not be able to respond. That's the big difference. However, when you authorise imports, you are already depreciating this term transfer as laid down in the Convention for a reason. The third thing you see is that some companies have expressed opinions. What you don't know is, colleagues, the world has long been no longer used live power for utilization, i.e. disassembling ammunition, or destruction. A very expensive technology is used, which is without the intervention of living human power, and with computers, with robots, which makes the process expensive, but preserves human life that has no price. This thing is being done in Bulgaria in order to be able to use cheap power, because there is no requirement here for technological provision of these processes, and everything is done with the two hands of people mostly in Northwestern Bulgaria, in Central Bulgaria, with very low salaries. The unemployment rate is high and these people are ready for BGN 200, as there is no job, to put their lives in danger and unfortunately, very often to death. This is the truth that you should tell here to our fellow MPs. That's the truth. From then on, everything else is untenable, not to say it's leaning towards lobbying interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u55	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Any other lines? I won't. A hole? Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u56	Colleague Bajraktarov, you referred to colleagues from the Ministry of Defence. They're probably right when you've been given this kind of consultation. However, I have read to you to save you time, not the whole part of the Ministry of Economy's response. Here, I will only read you this part that you disprove and talk about transfer and import that are not the same. They say, "We consider that within the scope of these two almost identical definitions of the term "transfer', imports, for which a definition is given in Chapter Two, i.e. 9 of the Additional Provisions in the Law on the Expert Control of Defence Products and Double-Use Products and Technologies. Secondly, there is no living force in Bulgaria, almost nowhere in the world, and in our country, you say it is done this way. That's not true. You probably don't know. There are two companies in Bulgaria. One of them works in Gabrovo, where there is such an installation and there is no touching, everything is with a computer. There is such an installation in the plant And don't bother the MPs and suggest to them some fear that someone will do something with their bare hands. We've got enough equipment. Let us not remove this possibility by importing from the transposition of the Convention. I graduated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u57	Thank you, Mr. Radev. For a statement there is the national representative Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We're making an amendment for a firm. The company is an expal company. Can you imagine tomorrow, if the Deputy Prime Minister is from Plovdiv, what miracles should we do to allow someone to do it in Plovdiv? You said computer technology secures it. And the jumping pass from Taiwan how exactly did you jump the computer so you killed the woman in Gabrovo?! It's computer technology, isn't it?! So many victims are all computer errors, or are they hitting the computer?! Look, we are making a law to destroy what is available in Bulgaria, for one reason or another, ammunition. Why would we do import? The rocket fuel you came and told us: "There is no way to utilize it in Bulgaria. We've been begging for 10 million. We've got to take it abroad. So we had to pray to someone to give us money so we could destroy it because it's here anyway. Does it have to be the dump? What are we doing right now? You made a statement in the newspapers the other day. I read that we have thousands of tons of shells that are in very bad shape and are ready to blow themselves up. And the ones we're going to import from abroad, will they just be manufactured? They'll be in the same condition! If we have a threat of terrorism to any of these places where they are stored, you will say: "Please, the state with all the resources to separate people to protect them because there is a great danger to Bulgaria. Why bring a new danger into the country? By the way, there is a Nuclear Weapons Convention, and we should already keep our spent. Let's get someone else's to store! What's wrong with that? There's enough for the chemical weapon! It's also bad for you. Bulgaria is the junkyard of the Balkans! Missiles, let's destroy them abroad. Now why are we making a law allowing additional weapons to be imported into Bulgaria, to further destroy these ammunition? Of course, at the moment, the company will benefit from this for all of us. What happened to the mines from Gorni Lom? Now the state has to step on it.... they were imported anyway, to destroy them. Let's bring in other ammunition and then: Well, there's no way, they're here in Bulgaria, they're in danger, no one wants them. Let's have some for them! At the moment, we guarantee a company that is foreign, but there is no harm in coming, it has invested in Bulgaria, to secure, to utilize our ammunition. And we guarantee that now the Ministry of Defense, at whatever cost this firm tells him, because it will turn out to be the only one, will pay to destroy the ammunition. However, you see, give now the door is open anyway, let's bring everything in from abroad. This is unnecessary! Who in Bulgaria needs an investment in arms? Who in Bulgaria needs a threat of terrorism? If I'm a terrorist, with one long-range grenade launcher, I can make a lot of trouble. We don't have to put ourselves in such danger! That is why I appeal to the word "invisible" or to be in single units, for the purpose of training, testing, opposition in future to military conflicts, to similar ammunition, or to cancel this point because it opens the door to Bulgaria to become a junkyard for destruction of ammunition. Then go for both nuclear waste and chemical weapons, and we'll be the most modern in the European Union the only country in which who has what to throw out throws it there! If we can't be number one on investment, let's be number one on nuclear, chemical, biological and military waste! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Dimitrov, with everything you have said, I agree, but I am taking a line because you have missed an extremely important clarification in your speech. The company you quoted works on the territory of Gabrovo district. What you have neglected to say is that two MPs from the political party GERB, elected from the election district of Gabrovo, one of whom has imported this bill, notice, honourable Members, voted against it and the other has abstained! Let's ask them one of them is here, the other I don't see: why did one of them vote against the other and the other one abstain? [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] Maybe he's overexcited. Oh, they're both here. [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] I'm not overexcited. Get out, Mr. Mihov, and explain why you, as an importer, voted against!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u61	Please don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u62	Are you worried about the people in Gabrovo who voted for you? We know how many wounded there are, a woman died, and it didn't work on a computer system like they're trying to insinuate us here! That's why I'm taking a line from my colleague Dimitrov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u63	Which is not from the Gabrovo election region. Any other lines? I won't. [[Replications between the MPs Tsvetomir Mihov and Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] A hole, Mr. Dimitrov? Mr. Gechev, come in. [[Extreme lines between the MPs Tsvetomir Mihov and Dimitar Bajraktarov.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Dimitrov, my line is this. [[Extreme lines between the MPs Tsvetomir Mihov and Dimitar Bajraktarov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u65	Please order in the court! Take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u66	I think you have unduly focused on the issue of turning our country into a junkyard of old weapons. The focus, Mr. Dimitrov, must be in two other directions. First of all, if we accept this amendment, to turn Bulgaria into a country that takes risks such as Russian roulette to secure foreign weapons, the most important thing is that we risk the lives of Bulgarian citizens! We've had a few cases where people for 300 leva. every month they risk their lives, the lives of their families and whole villages! Where are we going to turn our good side into Russian roulette for foreign weapons and risk the lives of Bulgarians? The second, economical one, where have we gotten her, dear colleagues? Bulgaria provided a billion and a half dollars from arms exports until the late 1980s. Then some of our friends helped us with our efforts, our traitors, to destroy Bulgaria's military industry. And instead of relying on a billion and a half dollars a year, now we're risking our lives to secure other people's weapons! Shame and shame on the people who put us in this position. Absolutely against it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u67	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Do you have any other lines? I won't. A hole? There's no one for the back. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The text in question cannot hide the obvious desire for lobbying in favor of companies dealing with utilization companies close to the main ruling party GERB. The time has come when the curtain must be drawn and the truth must be told. Your persistence, especially in the last month, is quite irritating and quite obvious. While for the past 12 months in the memory of the MPs, as well as the Bulgarian citizens, there may be only two texts left, which you managed to pass with a clear lobbying point, namely the attempts to push the introduction of petrol-ponds on the rusty tanks on the fields...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u69	Mr. Simeonov, let's focus on the current bill, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u70	We need to set up a motive.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u71	But under this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u72	The second case was with the introduction of lobbying text in the hall in the Energy Act for solving the purchase of expensive energy from producers, from manure. For the past year, it was just these two maybe. In the last month you have already allowed four such attempts at lobbying texts and passed them, unfortunately! This is the case with the removal of the excise duty for production of brandy from 1000 to 500 l cauldrons. The second is the increase in prices in favor of the low-end cigarettes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u73	Mr. Simeonov, if you don't return to the subject, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u74	I'll be back in two sentences. Returning the text to large taxi companies that can engage in illegal activity by hiring other taxis. And now we're on the fourth lobby amendment for explosives imports. Dear colleagues of GERB, the text is obviously lobbyist. I'm sorry to have to tell you directly. I will call on all representatives, including those who have a conscience from your group, not to support this text. I would advise: do not go up and ride on the propaganda swing of the winning elections! The swing moves forward, but then there's a recoil backwards. The figures are as follows: parliamentary elections 2014 1 million. 70,000. voted for GERB; October 2015 870... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u75	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. [[National Representative Valeri Simeonov speaks on off microphones.]] Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the liberty of making a very short line, because I counted four times... Mr. Simeonov, where did you go, you mentioned lobbying? Where did you see this lobbying, and who is this firm, excuse me? Here in the Chamber there are witnesses who were present when I proposed the destruction of these 900 tons of aviation ammunition, which belong to the Ministry of Defence, plus 500 in this company, which are hers imported from the outside, plus these 76 tons of only explosive substance of 190 thousand units of anti-personnel mines, to make them the Ministry of Defence. But you can't. There was an auction and they were won by a private company. Or are you against private companies? What should we do? Where did you see lobbying? I wanted the Ministry of Defense to do it, and I personally made an effort to convince all the military or those on whom it depends to say yes. And they said yes. But the law is such a win-win by another firm. And who tells you that if the word remains, the next ammunition of this kind, which for some reason enter Bulgaria, how do you know which company will win? There's public procurement. How can you even talk about lobbying from this tribune in this case?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u77	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Simeonov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u78	I can talk about lobbying because I can analyze the facts. The most elementary logic shows just this strong and aggressive lobbying in the last month. In just one month, four bills. As far as I am aware of this market for utilization, there are not so many companies that have the right to import. Of course, I can't name the firm right now, but I'm sure I'll be able to do it very soon. This does not replace the idea of this change in the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Before going to the vote, let me inform you that our guests on the balcony are students from the Financial and Economic High School of Vasil Levski in Montana. Let's say hello! [[Applause.]] I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Milen Mihov, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote! They voted 103 MPs: 35 against 34, 34 abstentions. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u80	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u81	It's a re-vote. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u82	Mr. Chairman, I propose a re-voting procedure. There were colleagues who couldn't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u83	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u84	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u85	Revoting procedure. [[Noise and lines from the hall.]] Don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u86	Mr. Chairman, I have a right...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u87	Whatever you're entitled to, I gave it to you. Revoting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u88	I have the right to motivate my re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u89	Read your Rules of Procedure if you have such a right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u90	You read it! Do not impose censorship in this National Assembly! [[National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov speaks on off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u91	Read the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u92	I'll tell you the same thing, read the rules, Mr. Dobrev! It's a re-vote. They voted 94 MPs: 31, against 39, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. 5. Please vote! They voted 104 MPs: 69 against 28, abstention 7. Article 5 of the Commission report has been adopted. Here you are, Mr. Mihov, for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u93	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. As a contributor to this proposal, I voted against the Commission's draft with one major argument that I would like to emphasise. With this amendment, we don't respond to public sentiments. The incidents in the utilization of ammunition in the country have formed a public mood against the way this is being carried out. Today we say that the destruction of cluster ammunition Bulgarian property can be followed by imports of foreign property and this can become a very long permanent business, which worries the society. That is why we will see to it that this moratorium imposed by the Council of Ministers is implemented and that it will be a protection against turning our country into a military dump in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Mr. Radev, we'll continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u95	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: Art. 6. Torque ammunition and anti-personnel mines shall be destroyed by: 1. detonation; 2. burning; 3. Utilization with irreversible transformation by dissipating separate components with subsequent use of waste explosives, empty packaging and metals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Art. 7. Cassette ammunition and anti-personnel mines are destroyed on special sites and in sites subject to the requirements of the Law on Protection of the Environment and the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemical Substances and Mixes. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. Art. 9. (1) The authorisation under art. 8 shall be issued on the basis of a written reasoned opinion of an Interdepartmental Commission. (2) In the composition of the Committee under para. 1 include one representative from the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the State Agency (3) The name composition of the Committee under para. 1 shall be determined by a joint order of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Interior on a proposal from the relevant Heads. (4) The activities of the Committee under para. 1 is organized and led by two co-chairs. The representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior. (5) For Secretary of the Committee under para. 1 shall be appointed an employee of the Ministry of Defence. (6) The legal services of the Committee under para. 1 is carried out by the Ministry of Defence. (7) The co-chairs of the Committee under para. 1, together or separately, may attract experts from other departments as well as external experts. (8) The meetings of the Committee under para. 1 shall be convened by the co-chairs, together either individually or at the written request of a member. Meetings shall be regular if more than half of the members are present. (9) The decisions of the Committee under para. 1 shall be adopted by a clear vote by consensus of the Members present. Decisions may not be taken in the absence of representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. (10) The Commission under para. 1 in exceptional cases may take decisions and not present by means of a protocol signed by all members and in the event of written observations by all members. (11) The organisation of the activities of the interdepartmental commission shall be determined by rules established by the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u96	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote Articles 6 to 9 including, in accordance with the Commission's report. Please vote. Vote 89 MPs: 79, against 3, abstention 7. Articles 6 to 9 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u97	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: Art. 11. (1) For obtaining authorisation for the destruction of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines the persons under art. 8 shall submit to the Committee on Art. 8. 9 an application under a model accompanied by the following documents: 1. a unique identification code (LEI) where the persons are registered under the Commercial Law, or a certificate of entry in the relevant register under the national law of the Member State concerned in a legalised translation into Bulgarian; 2. permission to use the sites and sites or any other replacement document issued under the Law on Device in the Area; 3. a document certifying the legal basis for the use of sites and sites; 4. passport of the warehouse for storage of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines; 5. a list of types of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines to be destroyed by presenting standardisation documents and relevant technologies; 6. developed and established safety instructions for the execution of destruction; 7. a list of persons who will have access to the cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines, agreed with the Head of the Regional Management of the Ministry of Interior (MI) at the location of the site; 8. copies of documents demonstrating compliance with the requirements of Chapters 6 and 7 of the Environmental Protection Act, as follows: (a) confirmation of classification of the enterprise according to art. 103, para. 6; (b) an opinion or decision entered into force under the relevant environmental impact assessment procedure; (c) a decision under art. 116, para. 1, t. 1 or under art. 116g, para. 4 For an undertaking/a facility with high risk potential; (d) an opinion on art. 106, para. 2 or 6 for an undertaking/a low-risk facility; (e) complex authorisation under art. 117 where required by Chapter 7, Section II; 9. A diploma for completed higher education of the heads of destruction and a document for acquired specialty for the staff under art. 10, para. 1, t. 2 - 5 - Criminal record and a copy of staff employment contracts; 10. A certified copy of the contract with a person carrying out private security activities under the terms and conditions of the Private Security Act; when the security of the sites and sites will be carried out by employees of the person under art. A copy of a document certifying the right to operate under Article 8 shall be submitted. 5, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on Private Security Activities issued to the person under the Law on Private Security Activities; 11. a certificate of criminality or equivalent document under the national law of another State of the managers or members of the managing bodies of the person under art. 8 acknowledgment that the person concerned has not been convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature; 12. an official document issued by a judicial authority or a relevant document under the national law of another State certifying that against the managers or members of the governing bodies of the person under art. 8 no criminal proceedings have been initiated for a deliberate criminal offence of a general nature; 13. medical certificate from a medical establishment or similar document under the national law of another State, certifying that the managers or members of the management bodies of the person under art. 8 do not suffer from mental disorders; 14. a statement by the managers or members of the management bodies of the person under art. 8 that they do not have the circumstances under art. 58, para. 1, t. 8 of the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. (2) Where any of the stages of destruction are carried out under contract at another site in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the person under art. 8 indicates the location of this site and presents a copy of the contract and, where the site is located outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the person shall also provide the relevant authorisation issued by the competent authority of the country concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u98	Thank you. Are there any statements under art. Art. 10 and art. 11? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion that didn't take place. I shall put to the vote art. Art. 10 and art. 11 as amended by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 74, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u99	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: Art. 13. (1) Upon receipt of the application and the documents referred to in art. Article 11 Committee on Art. 9 assess the completeness and compliance of the documents submitted with the requirements for authorisation and carry out on-the-spot checks on sites and disposal sites. (2) When finding incompleteness and/or non-compliance with the requirements of this law, the Commission shall inform the applicant in writing by a decision, giving instructions and a 30-day period for their removal, within which the period under para. Four stops running. (3) If the findings of incompleteness and/or inconsistencies are not resolved within the period under para. 2, the procedure for granting the authorisation shall be terminated. (4) The Minister of Defence and the Minister of Interior or officials authorised by them shall issue an authorisation or refuse to issue it on the basis of the opinion referred to in art. 9, para. 1 within two months of submission of the application. (5) Refusal under para. 4 shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u100	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Please vote art. Art. 12 and Art. 13 according to the Commission's version. Vote 79 MPs: 75, none, abstention 4. Articles 12 and 13 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u101	Under art. 14 The Commission shall support the text of the importer. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15: Art. 15. (1) The person authorised to dispose of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines shall inform the Committee on Art. 9 in: 1. reconstruction of sites and sites for destruction and storage of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines; 2. change of staff under art. 10, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. change of the commercial registration; 4. change the type of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines it destroys; 5. change of the technology of destruction of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines; 6. expiry of the contract under art. 11, para. 2. (2) In the cases under para. 1 the person authorised for disposal shall submit the documents relating to it within 14 days from the date of the change. (3) The evaluation of the documents under para. 2 and on-the-spot verification of sites for destruction and storage, where necessary, shall be carried out in accordance with art. 13, para. 1 - 3. (4) The Minister of Defence and the Minister of Interior or officials authorised by them on the basis of the opinion referred to in art. 9, para. 1 shall reflect the change in the disposal authorisation issued within one month of submission of the documents.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u102	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u103	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Radev, since you claim that there is no lobbying in this Law, I will show it to you when we get to art. 25. But if you want to dispel the suspicion of lobbying, you should in the proposed art. 15 to make a small change in art. 1, t. 4. What did you write down? By the way, I would like to explain specifically that these proposals have been submitted by unknown persons. I personally insisted and you remember, Mr. Radev, who this group is, who these experts wrote this Bill. Mr. Angel Naydenov was also present. If you remember, we didn't get an answer as to who these great experts were. Moreover, you conveniently failed to read whether there is an opinion of the Ministry of Defence, and read me an opinion of the Ministry of Economy, which is completely contrary to art. 26 of the Law on Legislative Acts, without any financial justification. I would like to ask: Mr. Minister, how much money are you provided with for reasons of force, as is the case with the company from Gorni Lom? How much money did you get from the budget? It's nothing, isn't it?! And all this will go back to the Ministry of Defense budget. I want you to come out and say this thing as a minister. I said it was a matter of national responsibility and national security. If you don't have lobbyist intentions, i.e. 4 reads as follows: A change of the type of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines it destroys. If these are our cluster ammunition, our anti-personnel mines, which remain extremely small in quantity, and the Convention obliges us to destroy them, no problem. Only if we're talking about those imported under art. 5, para. 1, t. 2, why don't they come in here? Why aren't the ammunition imported at this point so we know what's being destroyed after all?! To be announced, to be public! Therefore, I propose an editorial supplement that reads:....................... the type of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines, as well as those imported that destroy or utilise........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Because there's a process of utilization here that happens to be missed. We won't know what's being destroyed there at all. You got one text saying that up to 20 kilos were cluster ammunition... What if it's 20 pounds? Aren't they clustery? And who's measuring these cluster ammo? Are they 18, 19, 20 or 20,500 kilos? Is someone measuring them?! That's what we're talking about. I would ask you to support this proposal in order to be transparent and to know what is being imported into Bulgaria. What if they bring in some toxic gases, like the case in Stara Zagora? The destruction of ammunition that contained the phosgene fighting substance, certified with the RIEW measuring stations. Who was responsible then? Forbidden since 1915, 1918, I don't remember! But there was no problem in Bulgaria to destroy ammunition with phosgene, which is extremely dangerous! Not to mention that the consequences of it manifest after 10 years of childbirth are malformations, with genetic disabilities. Didn't anyone tell you that?! Moreover, to understand that this whole Law is lobbyist, you will see that the media are banned from people like me who are speaking, like Mr. Simeonov to debate this topic in the public domain at all. The only one allowed somehow by accident, or somehow by unknown criteria, is Mr. Radev. Once upon a time in the BTV, you gave a nice speech. There will be no imports. That's what you said at the BTV at Anton Hekimian's. And I called him, but he didn't dare invite me to say it wasn't true what you said. Here's the import!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u104	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's editorial proposal for art. 15, para. 1, t. 4. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u105	Nor is there transparency...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u106	Please, no verbal debate in this room! Please, guys! Mr. Bayraktarov and Mr. Svilen Ivanov! Colleagues, there's a vote. Practice your voice! Vote 78 MPs: 16 against 40, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 14 by importer supported by the Commission and art. 15 in the version of the Commission. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 62, Against 9, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. To re-vote, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u107	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since there has been a disturbance over the quarrels of some Members, which is not appropriate for this House, I would like a re-voting procedure. A lot of people got confused and didn't have the opportunity to focus on the vote and exercise their right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u108	We vote separately. First we vote art. 14, fully supported by importer. We are voting in full support of an importer text. Vote 91 MPs: for 70, against 10, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Vote art. 15 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 94 MPs: 76 against 8, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u109	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. (1) The person authorised for destruction shall submit to the Committee under art. 9 application under a model accompanied by the documents referred to in art. 11, para. 1, t. 1-10. (2) When there is a change in the documents under para. 1, the person shall submit to the Committee on Art. 1. 9 and the documents relating to the change. (3) Assessment of documents and on-the-spot verification shall be carried out in accordance with art. 13, para. 1-3. (4) The Minister of Defence and the Minister of Interior or officials authorised by them on the basis of the opinion referred to in art. 9, para. 1 issue a decision supplementing the authorisation issued for destruction within two months of submission of the documents.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u110	Statements under art. 16? I won't. Vote art. 16. They voted 86 MPs: 74 against 6, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u111	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u112	Words by members with numbers from 17 to 23 including? I won't. Anblok, we vote on the reported texts. They voted 83 MPs: 74 against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u113	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24: Art. 24. The transport into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines shall be prohibited: 1. on public transport; 2. in the form of parcels on all modes of transport.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u114	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u115	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going to make an editorial amendment that also responds from a security point of view, because the text is not clear. All modes of transport do not specify which modes of transport. There should also be an add-on It is clear that terrorists usually carry their explosives not by public transport but by private motor vehicles. That's why I'm here. 2 of art. 24 I propose that after the word....................................................................................................... I think it will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u116	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal in art. 24, p. 2 after the end of the word....................................................................................................... Vote 80 MPs: 17 against 17, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 24 in its version of the Commission report. [[Relation of lines between the MP from GERB and the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov.]] Colleagues, the debates in this Chamber are being held in a certain order. Mr. Bayraktarov! Vote 88 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u117	Article 25 supposed by the narrated representatives Dimitar Bajraktarov and Milen Mihov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 25 the following amendments shall be made: The words "invoicing and/or "at the beginning of the text" shall be deleted. The words "for and/or "after" shall be deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u118	What does the Commission propose on this text?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u119	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u120	Statements? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Now pay attention to the creation of art. 25, which is not a lobbying text at all. However, it regulates imports precisely for utilisation and destruction. You just rejected a sensible proposal that allowed the Penal Code to enter into force. I will give you an example, you have lawyers that in Bulgaria cars are not stolen, they are taken for use because this is the way the Law is made. I'm giving you an example because there's some unexplained misunderstanding. You didn't give the opportunity to make public what kind of ammunition is being destroyed in our country. Nobody really answered what we needed to import ammunition. Therefore, it is not allowed to be made public because it will turn out that we are importing ammunition from the so-called "banana republics" (i.e. the Banana republics) do not want to destroy their ammunition on their territory, but will give them here in Bulgaria, to die Bulgarian citizens. Dozens of cases have been reported, at least according to official data, over 30 deaths have been reported so far. The compensation is non-transparent because it turns out that these people are being provided on very low remuneration. And we here, the country, a member of the European Union, see, will take over the import of ammunition of unknown origin, of unknown qualities, with an unknown duration from the date of manufacture and when their expiration date has expired. All of this you voted it not to be made public. That this law wasn't classified, did it contain classified information by chance, that you forbade this thing from happening?! However, in Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 25 you have, so to speak, an opportunity to correct yourself. If you do not take advantage of this opportunity, this means that a large part of these funds, which, as I explained in a previous statement, the Ministry of Economy has strangely not explained: what will be the revenues for the Bulgarian state of taxes, the development of economic activity, how many will be employed in this sector? Because so far, they're a modest number. This will mean that these cash flows will be directed to the black cash register of the party that supports this Law. To the black party safe! Here's the simple simple conclusion. Therefore, the media are forbidden to give any publicity under this Law to comment because this topic is vulnerable to Bulgarian society. No one goes to the blackened families and tells them now: "We will bring more ammunition here to blacken and more such families, you will not be alone. I bet that sounds comforting.! Is that what you're after with this Law? And he wasn't lobbyist at all?! Lobbyists as many as you want, and he serves exactly two companies. We will then track from these two companies what revenues there will be, see what taxes they pay, what they have paid so far. Because there's an unofficial reference that they didn't pay anything. I don't think so. [[(GERB lines: May, ……]] Yes, I say there is, because it's not the official reference. Once we get her on official terms, we'll let you know. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u122	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Bayraktarov and Mr. Mihov, which the Commission does not support. 90 MPs voted: 23, against 40, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for art. 25, which is supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 72, against 13, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u123	Under art. 26 there is a proposal of the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Milen Mihov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments shall be made: The words "in' or "after' shall be deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u124	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Bayraktarov and Mr. Mihov. The Commission does not support this proposal. 90 MPs voted: 19 against 36, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 26 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 69, against 5, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u125	Under art. 27 there is a proposal of the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Milen Mihov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 27 the following amendments shall be made: The words "or imports" shall be deleted. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 words in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria or the Republic of Bulgaria shall be deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u126	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Bayraktarov and Mr. Mihov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 89 MPs: 24, against 38, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 27 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 70, against 12, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u127	"Chapter 3" is the collection and destruction of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u128	We vote. They voted 83 MPs: 71, against 3, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u129	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 28: Art. 28. (1) Any person holding cluster ammunition, anti-personnel mines and/or explosive elements or residue of cluster ammunition or anti-personnel mines, except those under art. 5, para. 1, t. 1 shall immediately notify the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior in writing, irrespective of the date of their acquisition. (2) Natural and/or legal persons having the items under para. 1 at the date of entry into force for the Republic of Bulgaria of the Convention on Munitions, immediately take measures under the terms and conditions of this Act for their destruction. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 29: Art. 29. Where an area within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is identified as an area affected by cluster ammunition or anti-personnel mines or a reasonable assumption can be made, the Ministry of Defence, together with the Ministry of Interior, shall immediately take the following measures: 1. research, evaluation and reporting of the threat of residue of cluster ammunition or anti-personnel mines and making all efforts to identify all areas affected by cluster ammunition or anti-personnel mines; 2. evaluation and preparation of priorities regarding the designation of the area, the protection of the population, the clean-up and destruction of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines, as well as the mobilisation of resources and the development of a national plan for carrying out these activities; 3. marking, monitoring and securing of the area; 4. clean-up and destruction of all waste of cluster ammunition or anti-personnel mines, and 5. informing the population of the danger of cluster ammunition, anti-personnel mines and their residues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u130	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's version of Articles 28 and 29 in accordance with its report. The Commission shall support and edit the text of the importer in accordance with the report. Vote 80 MPs: 71, against 3, abstention 6. Articles 28 and 29 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u131	"Chapter 4 " Help for Victims. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 30: Art. 30. (1) Victims of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines are all people who have died, died or suffered physical or psychological injuries, economic losses, or the exercise of their rights has been seriously difficult due to the use of cluster ammunition, anti-personnel mines and their residual elements under the jurisdiction and control of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The husband (wife), children and parents of the persons referred to in para. (2) The victims of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines and their residual elements shall also be considered as victims of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u132	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Four, which is supported by the Commission and supported by the Commission text of the importer for art. 30, which is edited by the Commission and is in its report. Vote 80 MPs: 73, none, abstention 7. The name of Chapter 4 and art. 30, according to the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u133	Art. 31. As regards the victims of cluster ammunition, the Law on Military Disabilities and Military Victims and Acts of its Implementation applies, as well as all provisions of the legislation in force on military invalids and military victims. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 31 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u134	That's enough. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission to reject art. 31 by importer. Vote 81 MPs: 73, against 2, abstention 6. The Commission's proposal to drop art. 31 by importer accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u135	The Commission proposes to establish new Articles 31, 32 and 33: Art. 31 (1). The Ministry of Defence established a Central Register of Victims of Munitions and Anti-personnel Mines. (2) The order for the establishment of quality sacrifice of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines, the necessary documents for this, the keeping of the register under para. 1 and its content shall be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. Art. 32. (1) Victims of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines which cannot themselves or with the help of their loved ones to satisfy their basic vital needs shall be entitled to social support under conditions and in order laid down by the Social Assistance Act. (2) Victims of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines under art. 30, para. 1 shall enjoy the rights under art. 15, 16 and 19 of the Law on Military Disabilities and Military Victims. Art. 33. (1) In the event of the death of a victim of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines, in the cases referred to in art. 30, para. 1, the heirs are entitled to one-off funeral aid of BGN 500. (2) The assistance under para. 1 is at the expense of the municipality's budget at the last permanent address of the deceased.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u136	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to establish Articles 31, 32 and 33 together with their respective content in accordance with the Commission report. Vote 79 MPs: 68 against 3, abstention 8. Articles 31, 32 and 33 in accordance with the Commission report have been established with their respective content.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u137	"Chapter Five" - Information Collection. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 32, which becomes Art. 34: Art. 34. Upon receipt of a request for clarification by another State, a Party to the Convention on Munitions or the Convention on Anti-personnel Mines, on the implementation of the two conventions, the Minister of Defence, through the Minister of Foreign Affairs, shall submit to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, within 28 days, the necessary information. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 33, which becomes Art. 35: Art. 35. (1) The Minister of Defence shall gather information on the implementation or implementation of this law. (2) The Minister of Defence shall fulfil the obligation of the Republic of Bulgaria: 1. for reporting in accordance with art. 7 of the Convention on cluster ammunition and art. 7 of the Convention on anti-personnel mines, and 2. to provide information according to art. 8 of the Convention on cluster ammunition and art. 8 of the Convention on anti-personnel mines; Art. 3. 4 t. 8 of the Convention on Cluster Munitions. (3) For the implementation of the activities under para. 1 and para. 2 The Minister of Defence may require information and/or documents from all state bodies, legal and natural persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u138	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts supported by the Commission for art. Art. 32, Art. Art. 33, which in the Commission's report became art. Article 34 35, as well as the name of Chapter Five. Vote 82 MPs: for 73, against 1, abstention 8. The name of Chapter Five, art. Article 34 35 are accepted. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria for a declaration has the word Ms. Mariana Boyadzhieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today the employees of museums, galleries and libraries in the country went to a symbolic protest. [[GRUNTING BY GERB.]] They insist on increasing the budget for the preservation of Bulgaria's movable and immovable cultural heritage and equal access to information and knowledge for all to begin the real implementation of the set parameters related to cultural values, which are now absent from the government's programme. Experts today raise the issue of at least double payment of the maintenance standard, of uniformising the single cost standard of museums and galleries of a regional nature, as well as of setting funds for introducing an complementary standard for management of open areas and buildings for all museums. The salaries of employees in museums, galleries and libraries are about 450 BGN. and they have not been updated since 2009. We are talking about representatives of the Bulgarian intelligence with more than one higher education, with Master degrees in different fields and fluent foreign languages, with high professionalism, with great experience in the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of Bulgaria and serious contribution to the development of Bulgarian culture. Their insistence is that the basic salary in the sector will be equal to two minimum wages in order to reach the level of at least the average salary in Bulgaria. It is understandable the discontent and protest of those working in museums, galleries and libraries. The adopted at first reading Project for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 dispelled even the most frightening hopes that there will be a change and reformist attitude towards culture. For a policy in the function of "Leaving case, culture and religious activity', although with a nominal growth in the consolidated fiscal programme, funding is not distributed in a way that allows the development of public systems and does not meet the expectation of society. The budget expenditure project shows that they decrease by nearly 6 million. lv. In essence, there is no increase in costs, and there is no attempt to anticipate an increase in cultural workers. It is true that the national economy does not guarantee sufficient revenue from production. However, it is statistically true that at least the revenue from cultural and creative industries is more than 4% of gross domestic product per year, and for them, despite the difference in absolute values of the 2016 budget. With nearly 13 million, this does not exceed 0.6% of gross domestic product. This shows that the government is not putting the sector of.................................................................................................... The promised reforms based on the analyses of a full strategy for the development of Bulgarian culture and creative industries never took place in 2015. The funds, which, according to the amendment to the Gambling Act, had to be poured into the National Fund of Culture and for which we repeatedly put the issues in the Committee on Culture and Media, were not included in the budget for 2016. Although the revenue from gambling in the state budget for However, 2015 has increased by 55%, the way to formalise the actual reporting in the revenue-loss portion of the amount to support the functioning of the National Fund. Another serious problem is the financing of the work of the stage cultural institutes. They are estimated at 70 million. BGN, which is 10 million more than this year, however, this 10 million were actually already given this year by ministerial decree and there is no real increase in the cost framework in this activity in the following year. We expected the discussion of the Draft State Budget to be preceded by an analysis of the problems in the field of cultural institutes. However, information came to us by letter signed by Minister Rashidov to the directors of these institutes to start paying 60% of the salaries of the employees in them. On the basis of the methodology in force at the beginning of the year, deficits have accumulated. That is why we have put before the Ministry of Culture, but we still do not have a proper clear answer to the following questions: What is the total amount of accumulated deficits in the sector of the Stage Arts on 31 October 2015? What is the number of participants in the creative projects - directors, stageographers, choreographers, solo artists, orchestras, ballet players, conductor who have not received their dues? Does the Ministry have a real repayment programme for payment within this financial year so that this money does not remain for the next year on the insufficient budget? Next, the Ministry of Culture has not approved invoices for some time for payment of state cultural institutes to companies, suppliers of various activities and services. We know that most of them are registered under VAT and have fulfilled their obligations to the budget without actually receiving remuneration for what they have done. We would like to know what is the total amount of unpaid services and supplies from cultural institutes and how will the Ministry overcome these problems that accumulate from day to day more? Today's protest is a sign of what's happening there. Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is no secret that culture and science are a guarantee of the national security of the country, because only a spiritually elevated nation can make faithful strides along its path of development. The truth is that peoples are experiencing economic downturns and development on their own, but the only thing that remains as a sign of the greatness of a nation in history, with political oppositions being forgotten is what has been achieved in culture. We have been doing everything we can to ignore this and leave a white stain in the spiritual development of the Bulgarian nation. It is important what roads we move on, but no less important is how literate and culturally uplifted are those who will give an assessment of the meaning and quality of the life of the Bulgarian nation. Today's protest by those working in museums, galleries and libraries shows the true attitude of people of spirituality towards Bulgarian culture. They insist not only on a deserved assessment of their work, but mainly on a radical change in the state's care for our cultural heritage and equal access to information and knowledge. We believe that their demands are fair, justified and we will make proposals for a second reading of the 2016 state budget so that these issues can be resolved next year. I would like to address you, Members of Parliament, that when we met with the protesters before the National Assembly minutes ago, they pointed out that this should be the care and responsibility of all political parties and parliamentary groups, because according to the protesters, the issues of Bulgarian spirituality and Bulgarian culture are above party. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Proceed, Mr. Radev, with Chapter Six.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u141	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34, which becomes art. 36: Art. 36. (1) The control of the activities under this law shall be carried out by the Minister of Defence in respect of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, and by the Minister of Interior in respect of natural and legal persons, or by officials authorised by them. (2) The control under para. 1 shall also be carried out together with representatives of other state bodies entrusted with powers relating to the activities under this law. (3) The conditions and procedures for carrying out control of the activities under this Law shall be laid down by a decree issued jointly by the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u142	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! You must notice that the cornerstone of the Law is control. When we talk about this Law, in several places in the text we mention the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior. This is very important, as until now, the control relating to these activities has always been carried out under the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, first and foremost by the Ministry of Interior with its authorities. For the first time in this Law, we are doing the opposite in relation to the many remarks we received from colleagues Bajraktarov, Mikov and other colleagues who spoke. I would also like to remind them of the text that we are going to vote on at the moment that, on the contrary, in this Law, control is transferred mainly to the Ministry of Defence for several reasons. The most important reason is that in the Ministry of Defence are gathered in one place in the country, the most qualified in this area, the most competent specialists connected with and working with cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines. That's probably the most basic reason. The other reason is that, as such an institution so far in our factories, the main reason is that we have 100% state participation, the incidents are at least. Here we also want to meet public expectations. This is why the text in art. 36, para. 1 to sound this way the control of the activities under this law is carried out by the Minister of Defence and so on the Ministry of Defence is everywhere. I graduated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u144	Thank you, Mr. Radev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Before we go to the vote, we need to get back to art. 3 by importer who, on a proposal from the Commission, has been rejected because it is in the Member who is now to be voted on. The same applies to art. 4 which, for the same reason, was proposed by the Commission to be rejected and found its systematic place in art. 2. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject Articles 3 and 4 by importer. They voted 83 MPs: 73, against 2, abstention 8. Articles 3 and 4 are rejected on a proposal from the Commission. We are now going to vote on the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six, which is supported by the Commission, and art. 34 by importer, which after the amendment of the Commission becomes art. 36. Vote 84 MPs: 73, against 3, abstention 8. The name of Chapter Six, as well as art. 36 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u145	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 35, which becomes art. 37: Art. 37. (1) The control bodies in the exercise of control shall be entitled to: 1. of access to all sites and sites related to the implementation of the activities under this law: 2. of access to all documents relating to the activities under this law; 3. check the documents under point 3. 2 and make copies of them; 4. carry out checks on the items under this law; 5. withdraw the authorisations issued under this law and recall the relevant items; 6. suspend the transport of items under this law when they find that the supply is not accompanied by the authorisation granted until the authorisation is presented; 7. to give mandatory prescriptions related to the fulfilment of the requirements of this law: 8. draw up acts establishing administrative infringements under this law; 9. to refer to the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office when establishing evidence of a crime committed. (2) The powers under para. 1, t. 1-7 and 9 may also be exercised jointly by the control authorities according to their competence. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 36, which becomes art. 38: Art. 38. (1) The control bodies after issuing the authorisations under this law shall carry out checks on the sites and sites under art. 37, para. 1, t. 1 and the documents referred to in art. 37, para. 1, t. 2: 1. according to a pre-established plan by the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Interior; 2. by signals from other control bodies; 3. at the request of the Secretary-General of the United Nations or of the competent authorities of other States, parties to the Convention on Munitions and to the Convention on Anti-personnel Mines; 4. by signals from citizens. (2) The control bodies may also carry out unannounced checks. (3) In the checks under para. 1 and 2 control bodies shall establish whether the activities under this law are carried out in accordance with the authorisations granted. (4) In the event of the finding of infringements of the requirements of this law, the control authorities shall issue mandatory prescriptions for their removal. The order for mandatory prescriptions shall be followed immediately, unless the court decides otherwise. (5) The order shall be issued, appealed and executed in accordance with the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37, which becomes Art. 39.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u146	Are there any speeches, honourable Members of Parliament? I won't. I shall put to the vote Articles 35 and 36 by importer which, after the amendment of the Commission, become Articles 37 and 38 in its report, as well as the text of the importer for art. 37 which is supported and becomes art. 39 in the Commission report. We are voting on Articles 37, 38 and 39 on the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: 72 against 1, abstention 3. Articles 37, 38 and 39 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u147	..criminal administrative provisions.. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 38, which becomes art. 40: Art. 40. (1) To a person who for no good reason refuses to provide information or documents under art. 35, para. 3 or knowingly provided false or misleading information, a fine of 1000 BGN is required. and/or a penalty of 10 000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 is required fine of 2000 BGN. and/or a penalty of 20 000 BGN The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 39, which becomes art. 41: Art. 41. To violate this law and the regulations issued on the basis of it, for which no other punishment is provided, guilty persons are subject to a fine of BGN 500 to BGN 2000. and/or a penalty of 3000 to BGN 10 000 (EUR 10 000) The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 40, which shall become Article 40. 42: Art. 42. (1) The acts establishing infringements under this law shall be drawn up by officials appointed by the Minister of Defence and by the Minister of Interior. (2) Criminal decrees shall be issued by the Minister of Defence, respectively by the Minister of Interior or by officials authorised by them according to their competence. (3) The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u148	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter 7 by importer, supported by the Commission, Articles 38, 39 and 40 by importer, which shall become Articles 40, 41 and 42 in the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 75 MPs: for 71, against 1, abstention 3. The name of Chapter 7 and Articles 40, 41 and 42 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u149	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 41 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u150	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject art. 41 by importer. Please vote on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: 69 against 1, abstention 6. The Commission's proposal to reject art. 41 by importer accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u151	"Additional provisions'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the division: The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. A self-destruct mechanism, a cluster-munition reserve, an area affected by cluster-munition are concepts within the meaning of the Convention on cluster-munitions. 2. It is a concept within the meaning of the Convention on the prohibition of the use, storage, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and of their destruction. 3. "Transfer" is a concept within the meaning of the Convention on cluster ammunition and the Convention on the prohibition of the use, storage, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and of their destruction. 4. An explosive bombardment or explosive combat element within the meaning of the Convention on Cassette Munitions has been detonated. 5. Non-explosive explosive devices are a non-explosive sub-munition and non-explosive combat element within the meaning of the Convention on Munitions. 6. "Imports and Exports" are concepts within the meaning of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and of dual-use items and technologies. 7. "Member State" is a Member State of the European Union, a country of the Agreement on the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation. 8. It is a process involving removal or otherwise neutralising the military and deadly potential of cluster ammunition, explosive elements and anti-personnel mines.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u152	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name proposed by the importer for the "Additional provisions', which has been edited by the Commission to the "Additional provision', and the version of § 1, according to the Commission Report. Please vote. We are voting on the Commission's editorials. Vote 81 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 4. The Additional provision and § 1 were adopted in accordance with the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u153	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles (as amended, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) A new para shall be created. 3: The activities other than those referred to in paragraph 3 shall be carried out in accordance with the law of the Member State concerned. 1 with firearms and ammunition of category A may be carried out after authorisation under this law. (b) the current para. 3 becomes para. 4. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 is created. 6: The persons authorised to produce shall only be able to carry out the utilisation of their firearms and ammunition produced by them. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 1 t. 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. copies of documents demonstrating compliance with the requirements of Chapters 6 and 7 of the Environmental Protection Act, as follows: (a) confirmation of classification of the enterprise according to art. 103, para. 6; (b) an opinion or decision entered into force under the relevant environmental impact assessment procedure; (c) a decision under art. 116, para. 1, t. 1 or under art. 116g, para. 4 For an undertaking/a facility with high risk potential; (d) an opinion on art. 106, para. 2 or 6 for an undertaking/a low-risk facility; (e) complex authorisation under art. 117, where required by Chapter 7, Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u154	Report to the end all paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u155	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 3 be rejected. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u156	Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote, first, the name of the section "Concluding provisions" proposed to us by the importer, then § 2, in accordance with the Commission report, the withdrawal of § 3 and § 4 and the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 3 after support from the Commission. Please vote. Vote 85 MPs: 74 against 3, abstention 8. The Commission's proposals have been adopted, and thus the Law at second reading. Thank you. It's 1:38 p.m. I'm calling a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u157	One sentence for gratitude. Thank you to all from the Ministry of Defence for empathy, the Ministry of Interior, personally to Deputy Minister Tzipov, who is the initiator and to the I have to say a name to Mr. Zahov from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you, everyone. [[Applause.]] (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u158	We continue today's plenary session with the next item on the agenda: In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with points (a) and (b) of Article 21 (2) of the Financial Regulation. Ivan Valkov will introduce us with the report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I read the report, I am making a procedure for admission to the hall of the Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Anton Ginev and the Executive Director of the Executive Agency
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u160	Let's vote on the proposal made by the MP Ivan Valkov. Vote 67 MPs: 66 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Let the faces in the room, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u161	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Road Transport Act, No 554-01-178, submitted by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs on 19 November 2015. At an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 20 November 2015, a Draft Law amending the Road Transport Act was discussed, No 554-01-178, submitted by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs on 19 November 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mr. Tsvetlin Tsvetanov, Executive Director of the Executive Agency. The latest amendment to the Road Transport Act removed the possibility for drivers to carry out taxi services on behalf of registered carriers on their own account. In this regard, drivers who wish to continue working on their own account must register as carriers under the Road Transport Act and Decree No 34 of 1999 on the taxi transport of passengers. It is necessary that carriers comply with a number of requirements, among which they comply with the requirement of reliability of carriers and that of professional competence, for the registration of taxi transport of passengers. To this end, it is necessary to have a head of transport activity who has passed a successful professional competence test before the Executive Agency. Furthermore, as well as establishing compliance with the requirement of reliability of carriers, it is necessary to align the vehicles to which the transport is to be carried out with the requirements laid down in Regulation No 34 for the taxi transport of passengers. Following the registration in the register under art. 12 of the Road Transport Act is required to issue a permit for taxi transport and a hologram by the mayors of municipalities for each individual car. The importers stressed that the implementation of all requirements requires technological time and administrative capacity related to carrying out the examination of the transport manager activity, the processing of submitted applications for entry in the register under art. 12 of the Law on Road Transport and the issuance of new permits to carry out taxi transport by municipalities. In this respect, it is proposed that the period for the entry into force of the Law amending the Law on Road Transport should be extended until 1 July 2016. After the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held, which was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. They argued that they supported the Bill as the proposed extension of the period for the entry into force of the Law would provide sufficient time to bring the carriers into line with the new requirements. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 10 votes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. On behalf of the importers? There aren't any. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, Members of Parliament. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As a member of the Transport Commission, I will, of course, support this proposal, my colleagues from the Reformation Block also. The only concern is the fact why it had to come to him. Two main things are important to me. In this six-month period, I hope that there will be no other changes to this nature. The second fact is that after these six months we do not have to extend it another six months. We have received the assurance from the Executive Agency representative that this deadline is sufficient at least on the calculations we have made. I call on you to support it, as we are currently in an emergency in which it needs to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u164	- What's the line? Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u165	Thank you. Mr. Ananiev, I guarantee you that in six months you will stand again on this stand and ask for another extension. Just two weeks ago this House rejected the Local Tax and Tax Act, where we wanted to introduce a one-off and final tax on all taxis based on a car, and we talked to you that between first and second reading we could find a lasting solution, but then you were deaf about it. Now you want a six-month extension. I am sure that in six months you will want an extension with another six months, because this text is not the lasting solution, is not the balanced solution. But it gave you sufficient reason to reject the tax that none of the taxi companies currently pay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u166	Thank you. Any other lines? I won't. Will you take advantage of the hole? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u167	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, in fact the request for this extension is not ours. The request is from the Executive Agency, which will not be able to do its job. At the moment, as everyone is aware, the law is not valid. If we do not give this deadline, absolutely all taxi drivers who perform this service today in Sofia, and not only in Sofia, but throughout the country, they are in fact in violation of the Law. Obviously, we need to take these actions. I don't know why you're tying him to your proposal, although I have some idea why, but I'm not going to comment on it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u168	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Next statement by MP Georgi Svilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, from our parliamentary group we will not support the proposed bill. I'll try to tell you with what arguments. The change that is being proposed is practically an extension of the deadline for the entry into force of a nice proposal that brings out the light taxi industry. The discussion we held in the last two weeks several times, indeed in the proposal made by colleagues at the time, the deadline, according to the industry, according to the Automobile Administration, the Ministry of Transport, is quite small one month. However, our remarks then and now are that when such a bill is tabled, the Ministry of Transport then said it was okay, it is okay, that the deadlines are normal and so we voted it in a parliamentary committee and in a hall. Then we received the attempt to amend this Road Transport Act through the Local Taxes and Fees Act, where, in the form of a patent tax, we had to cancel everything we have accepted in the Transport Commission and in Parliament. It's a good thing you didn't pass that amendment. Of course, this topic can continue to be discussed in the future.. Whether to introduce a patent tax or not and how to be taxed, but this is a topic of quite another conversation, is not a topic at the moment of the Road Transport Act. However, the period proposed at the moment, my fellow Members, seven months, is too long for me. I have also made a proposal in the Commission, of course, that it has not been accepted. Here I will not allow myself to do it again. The term will be from April 1st. Four months is a sufficient time for taxi drivers to register and become carriers. I would also like to turn to taxi drivers, to know that the proposed amendment, as it is very much abused by their superiors, carriers, leasing agents and all those who fill their heads with all sorts of things that will happen to them after the Law is passed, that this amendment only protects their interests..............................of all 11 thousand drivers, the interests of the passengers, the Bulgarian citizens who use this service, and, last but not least, the interests of the state as an authority to exercise control over this activity, so that the Law will enter into force from 1 July, is in the interest of all those categories of people I have listed. My concern is that it has also gone to the media that it is already being said that the deadline will be extended so that during these seven months we can change the legislation again with our people in parliament. My request is to the rulers, to the people who are responsible for the management of the state at the moment, from this tribune, the highest, of the parliament, to close this discussion, it cannot be made promises, but at least to ensure that in these seven months we do not make changes that change the philosophy of the Law and the philosophy of the use of taxi transport. Making changes that concern improvement, but not philosophy, that is, these technical changes will probably be voted on and passed, but not changing the philosophy of who can have access to the profession, who can exercise it and who can carry it out. Once again, our group will not support the Bill due to the long term proposed by the importers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u170	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Recently, there has been a very useful practice of increasing the time limits of laws already adopted and in force. This is also the case with the change of art. The term for the offshore companies is also the present case. Ms. Menda Stoyanova was right in her speech regarding the patent tax, but she was wrong in one other thing, because we from the Patriotic Front in this direction would support and we wanted to support the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. However, how did this amendment suddenly slip into the Transitional and Final Provisions, which in fact brought down this good design with regard to taxi services? How is it that you colleagues from GERB did not object to this amendment and did not wish it to be withdrawn so that the Law on Local Taxes and Fees could pass with all its fine design? In fact, have you given yourself at least once a small account that many of the colleagues no longer believe, so to speak, tears, as said in that film. Siej, we can no longer take risks of adopting first-voting bills and hopefully then some-some text that is vicious and just a while ago the text about the transportations was changed, and suddenly this text that had to start acting, to bring out the light of this sector, more importantly, so to say, to unravel tens of thousands of people taxi drivers, who instead of working for themselves, work on a formula for the owner, for the car and, if left, for me. And if it stays for me! Here's the important thing. In fact, when you submit some bills, you must first consider why such strange amendments are being introduced at the last moment, not to call them lobbyists who serve someone's interests again, and you did not react to withdrawing this text. To take on from this tribune the clear responsibility that this text will not be voted on at second reading or that it will be withdrawn from the importers. Such a thing, however, we did not hear when we examined the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Now we're going to reschedule. Yes, another question arises here: when you have made these changes, have you considered whether this period is sufficient for taxi drivers to be able to transform their activities, to obtain the relevant registrations? Why don't we look in another direction, who makes this procedure so difficult for a normal Bulgarian citizen to become a taxi driver? Isn't it the same executive who, with regulations, creates such a clumsy and complex procedure?! Wasn't it easier than offering to extend the deadline again, to turn to government and to the government to change the express version of these regulations and to ease the procedure? I guess that's easier than looking at a whole law here today. But why isn't anyone looking in that direction? Personally, I will not support the amendment aimed at extending the deadline without having any clear motives. The motive was, you see, we need to buy more time. About what? More time for the government to change the legal documents, because even after 1 July on the current legal basis drivers will in most cases still not be able to register and be taxi drivers. The whole legal base, and it is legitimized, so it is so designed that they will practically not get the same opportunity. Here's the simple truth - delaying the inevitable in time. This isn't the right way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, you are right that when legislation is introduced, the time limit should be calculated a little bit. The interesting thing is that during this month, which had pawned colleagues as a deadline, the motive of taxi carriers was that 30,000. Drivers must be relicensed. This was constantly instilled in us in the Commission and you through the media that 30 thousand. Drivers will be out of work. Turns out it wasn't 30,000. drivers, and 11 thousand for all of Bulgaria. Of those 11,000 until last week, only 255 drivers had applied for re-registered, which means they had no intention of doing this, knowing that people would be found to change or extend the Law. The problem in the Automobile Administration would be if there were 10 800 applications received and they issued 255, then the criticism would be justified, but here we have a reluctance of the industry to implement the Law. That's why I'm saying 7 months is a long time, and it doesn't have to be that big. Let's make it shorter and, if necessary, at 11,000. Applications, and the Ministry can't process them, so let's think about it, but in this case we don't have a case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u174	Another line to Mr. Bayraktarov? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Svilensky, in essence, with your reply you have fully supported my speech, for which I thank you. In my opinion, you should say things with real names, because what you said is the truth. I explained it the same way. However, there is another truth that is invisible. Someone has made a commitment not to 10, 12 or 15 thousand. taxi drivers, because the text was changed, because the big players actually, according to the law in force then, gave small drivers the opportunity to work on their own. It's called some kind of franchise, something like that. But here the big question is: who and what was motivated to make such a commitment to the big players? Was he accidentally well motivated with some signs, and now we're almost trying, so to speak, to legitimize someone's deal?! These are the real and the right things, because in the last few weeks this Parliament has become a parliament of deal. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] This parliament in the last few weeks has adopted lobbying laws, lobbying texts that serve tight corporate interests, and this is already worrying. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u176	Quiet in the courtroom, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u177	That's scary! That's the big problem! Here the question is principled not whether we are against the ordinary taxi driver, on the contrary we are about every person being able to realize their entrepreneurship, being able to participate freely in the market economy and in the labour market, being able to work for himself. Not at all! So these are the questions a person should put to himself, and when he has stood here and voted on his conscience as he has sworn, and as in the Constitution, he should not be afraid to say things with their real names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u178	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Mihov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I feel obliged to take into account, as a large part of these laws and regulations relating to the taxi industry are initiated by our Commission and myself with my colleague Valkov. I'll try not to use extreme epithets and qualifications who for what, how, why and so on. The truth is, the changes have started since the middle of the year. Maybe it was June, when in a morning block of national television I was asked by journalists whether we would finally have the courage to change this Law after 13 years. In front of them, in front of me and in front of all the viewers, I made a commitment that this thing would happen because we looked at taxi cars type.............................. and illegals, violations, pumps and any other fiction to the detriment of the client, the state, the public. All those who are in this sector and are closely following the changes know that the debates lasted several months. It was only October that they were accepted because of, say, the workload of the work of the National Assembly. Everyone had enough time and desire to bring their activities into line with the law. Whether they're gonna get licenses, whether they're gonna go to work, whether they're gonna take qualification courses, requalifications for managers, drivers, and so on, there's plenty of time for that. Of course, I do not want to comment at all on what happened or rather did not happen the previous week in a Chamber in the National Assembly. Anyone can come to their own conclusions about what it was. I'm part of the importers of this term. I have concerns about what some of my colleagues have said so far that, in the month when it was known that the Law would enter into force, a large part of the carriers, the drivers did not do what was necessary to submit documents to enter the classes, nor were they enrolled in training courses, nor have they filed license documents and so on. My concern comes from there that almost they are counting on some other legal change or a new extension. You know how it happened with the cash registers of buses, when they had to be tied to the NRA, one, two, three, fourth extension until finally things happened. It's my only concern in terms of the size of the extension. An extension should probably be there. This is what the estimates of the Automobile Administration show, according to the estimates of the Ministry of Transport. But whether the deadline should be three, four or six, I am not convinced myself. Therefore, I would not allow myself to call on any of you to support or reject this bill. Because I myself as directly involved with this Bill, I am not sure if this term should be one, two, three or six months. In any case, the longer term gives greater freedom, greater opportunities for contact demand, lobby that it really doesn't happen. That's my worry. According to the reference given to me in the holiday by the Automobile Administration, there are very few: out of 11 thousand only 200 applications. What do the other 10,000 and 600 and 800 do?! They either wait to accumulate again at the last minute, as it was with the identity documents, or wait for the last term, or wait for another developments. So I'm not sure if this is the right deadline. However, the fact that administrations are not yet ready to work under the new Law is the case. Notice, the biggest problems are in Sofia. In 90% of the towns in the province, all taxi carriers and drivers have entered the norm. They have complied with the legal provisions. Because there were calls to speak the truth, I think, without imposing that opinion, the truth was this. Last week, the Transport Commission received a letter from the Associations, which are many in this sector, saying: "If you don't change things, we will go out on December 4th on protest, on strike, we will block Sofia, the state and so on. You know, most of us are politicians. As you want us to come out and ensure that tomorrow this Law will not be changed again, will all the leaders of political parties here in parliament come out of this stands to state that if next week there is a taxi protest, they will not use it with political dividends? But I'm not convinced of that. I am not convinced that on Friday next week parties will not come out of this tribune and say: "See, the state is blocked, in chaos, everyone is protesting, even taxi drivers are protesting!" Another question is whether it is appropriate to allow the hands of the state and of us as legislators to be twisted in this way with warnings of protests, strikes and so on. Yes, you will say: "This is democracy. It is democracy, but in the end, democracy is that we defend the interests of the whole society, not only of carriers, but also of drivers, of consumers. And what would happen if one of them scared with protest and we all went out and said, "People, don't use 10 days of taxi service?"! If we go to a confrontation, I don't know if there'll be a winning side at all. Finally, in order not to waste valuable time, I say again: I will not call on either of my fellow Members to vote in one direction or the other, as I am not aware of myself how much the deadline must be. Everyone must have a conscience and assess the normal term, but in any case there must be an extension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u180	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mihov, in order to reassure you about the concern that anyone in our party will benefit from this...... if there is a protest, to stand behind it, to intervene in it. I would say that the Bulgarian Socialist Party has always been consistent in its positions when it supports some law. She supports it not because it's the conjunctural thing we want at the moment, but because it's a basic situation that she thought was for the benefit of society and of each and every one of us. From this point of view, I guarantee you that no one will benefit from the protest of taxi drivers for political purposes, even more so in a law that we have supported and which you have imported. The problem here, however, is that your parliamentary group during a period of about three months makes three changes in the Law, you including I am very worried that we are not the ones who swim along the waves of populism, on the waves of lobbying, on the waves of what society will say about us and who has given us what money so that we can vote in the right way. Please tell me in your speech you have not decided for yourself how to vote you will not vote or vote abstention. Or how will you vote? I'm asking you in personal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u182	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u183	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I hope you have the permission to speak on behalf of the entire parliamentary group. I hope that the other groups will follow your example, too, not to politicize the subject in any way, because this is a sector, a sector that is about to be put in order. I think that I am the person that you would at least accuse of inconsistent, because I put up with Samin a few months ago to fight this battle, for which I personally thank all the parliamentary groups, because the Law then passed by a full majority, both in the Commission and in the Chamber. Thank you very much. About my vote. I said I would support, in the sense that there should be an extension, that the situation at the moment is that from the Automobile Administration. As I hope there will be a second reading of whether now or next week, I do not know exactly how it is foreseen, I would make changes for the period between the two readings. In this order of thought, I support the change, but I have said that I am not sure whether it should be six months, or maybe three months, or some consensual version around which to unite absolutely everyone and the subject in no way to be politicised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u184	Statements on the bill? Here you go, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, as one of the contributors to this bill, I would like to return the debate to the very amendment of the Law. This is a technical proposal by which the Law on Amendment and Supplement, which was adopted and is already Law about a month ago, its entry into force to be extended by six months. Why would it be prolonged? Because we have an official opinion of the main controller of the activity It is not possible that, within the last period for 11 thousand carriers, the way in which they can operate can change. There are two options. One is to become carriers and the other is to pass on employment contracts. Both options are possible. That takes technological time. As chief administrator, the time specified to us by the Automobile Administration is six months. I think it's perfectly normal. We should comply with this proposal, because any reduction in this deadline will then enable those operating this activity to be unable to cope or find ways to postpone continuously. In this situation, they will no longer be able to postpone this activity. And it depends on us all here whether we make any change in the philosophy that we have already accepted and voted for, and it is unanimous with one vote that we abstained from in this House. I offer your attention to this bill. My proposal is to vote as it is proposed so that we can allow all who wish to carry out this activity to be carried out in a fair and equal manner for all of us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u186	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Any lines to Mr. Valkov's statement? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable Mr. Valkov, that is true. Your proposal is based on the opinion of the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration, where they have given themselves a much longer period of six months. You were a witness when we in the Commission asked the Executive Director to tell us how long this could take. In the accounts, it turned out to be possible for about two or three months. In this direction, your concerns that someone will justify that they cannot be re-registered are absolutely unfounded, so you can rest assured that whoever wishes will do so. Proof of this is that, to date, there are not enough applications. They just don't want to do it. In this direction, I support what Mr. Mihov said, too, without stopping the adoption procedures at first and second reading, if necessary in one vote, as the Law has entered into force and is indeed creating problems in the industry. If you consider a second vote to reduce this period to four months, that is to say, to enter into force on 1 April. I think the offer is reasonable. A little more effort will be put in by the Automobile Administration, and, God forbid, by April 1st we have a branch that will work under the law in force, regulated, clear and precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u188	Thank you, too. Is there a second line to Mr. Valkov? I won't. Mr. Valkov, do you want the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I personally do not mind between the first and second votes to make the relevant debates, but you all know how they went in the Commission. It will be very difficult to get to the exact date, as we have an official opinion for six months. The industry will never agree in less time. The main problem is in Sofia, as said earlier by Mr. Mihov. Anywhere else can basically cope within two or three months, while the main group of drivers who drive for their own account are here. That's more than four thousand taxis. You understand that this is about administration of the activity only and only in the nearest we can talk about Sofia. If you think the deadline should be changed, we can never say why the date should be April 1st. We're just gonna say a date we don't have how to protect. It's just so it doesn't last six months. Therefore, I suggest that the six months offered by the Automobile Administration be accepted because this is the main authority administering this activity. In addition, a monitoring officer of this activity. I believe that this is the reasoned proposal that needs to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u190	Thank you. Are there any other Members who wish to speak on the item on the agenda? I can't see. We're closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Law on Road Transport, No 554-01-178, submitted by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. They voted 104 MPs: for 76, against 1, abstention 27. The bill was passed in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW ON ACCOUNTING. Importer of the Council of Ministers, adopted on the first vote on 2 October 2015 [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask for a procedure to allow Mr. Bekir Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova Director of the Tax Policy Directorate and Mrs. Natalia Cherneva Head of the Department of the same Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u192	I put to the vote Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal for admission to plenary. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The clearance is granted. Go ahead, Mr. Kovachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In order to speed up at second reading the Accounting Act, I withdraw all my proposals unsupported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u194	Thank you, Mr. Kovachev. Mr. Wolf's procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal under art. 77, para. 2 for voting in the Chamber and at second reading The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Road Transport, which we adopted at first reading, as it was declared by everyone that no proposals will be made. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u196	We've started a different bill. You can do a short-term procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u197	In this situation, Mr President, I am proposing a reduction in the period between first and second readings of three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u198	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. A counteroffer? I can't see. Voting mode. They voted 83 MPs: 79, against 3, abstention 1. The proposal to cut the deadline to three days has been accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u199	Thank you. The Commission's Report on Budget and Finance on the Accountancy Bill No 502-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 July 2015, adopted at the first vote on 2 October 2015. "Accounting Act." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. "Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. "Department I..................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2. "Department II." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u200	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the Law, the text of the importer for the name of the division................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, as well as Section II, which the Commission supports. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u201	Under art. 3 has a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 para. 4 is amended as follows: The sole traders whose net sales revenue for the previous reporting period does not exceed BGN 50 000. and whose annual financial statements are not subject to compulsory independent financial audit may determine the financial result correctly and honestly for the reporting period, taking into account their activity by keeping specific books. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 3 and offers the following editing: Art. 3. (1) Current accounting shall be organised in accordance with this Law and shall be carried out in the manner of bilateral accounting recording. (2) Enterprises shall carry out the ongoing accounting of all business operations which lead to changes in their property and financial position, financial performance of the activity, cash flows and equity, in chronological order. (3) The undertakings shall carry out the ongoing accounting on the basis of documentary justification of business operations and facts, subject to the requirements for drawing up documents under this law. (4) Single traders with net sales revenue for the previous reporting period of an amount not exceeding BGN 50 000 may account for their activities according to the method of the unilateral recording.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u203	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! As recorded in the article under consideration. 3, current accounting shall be carried out by the method of bilateral accounting recording. The text in the Act in force says that when we have revenue below 50 thousand with sole traders, they can keep specific accounting books. We believe that this text is good, it is working. Because the proposal made to introduce the term "supposed to one-sided write-off" exists nowhere in the accounting terminology and this will make it difficult for those small traders who can benefit from it. Right, working text. Now we're just changing it because something has to change or I don't know what the idea is. Moreover, this proposal is also supported by the accounting guild, by representatives of the Association of Accounting Enterprises, by the IDES and by the Union of Accountants, despite the long debates that are held in the Ministry of Finance for almost a year now, this text has not been adopted. It's a proposal from the Ministry, I don't think it's right. Once again, I say it contradicts accounting theory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u204	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 17 against 45 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the generally supported text of the importer for art. 3 which, following the Commission's revision, finds its place in the report. Vote art. 3 on the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: 62, Against 11, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u205	Revoting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u206	Revoting procedure. Abort the vote and announce the result. Vote 81 MPs: 66 against 14, abstention 1. Article 3 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u207	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u208	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 4 which is supported by the Commission. Vote 71 MPs: 68 against 1, abstention 2. Article 4 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u209	Under art. 5 has a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and supports the proposal under point 1. 2. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." in para 1, paragraph 1 is (a) in the first sentence, the expression b) the second sentence is amended as follows: The documents for a transaction with a foreign counterparty agreed in foreign currency may also contain information in the relevant foreign language, the remaining equivalent being determined and indicated by the application of the BNB rate to BGN for the day of the transaction. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kovachev, supported under the heading 2 and withdrawn under item 2. 1. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 5 and offers the following editing: Art. 5. (1) The accounting documents in the enterprises shall be drawn up in Bulgarian with Arabic numerals and in leva. They may also be drawn up in the relevant foreign language in foreign currency in the case of transactions negotiated in foreign currency with foreign counterparties. Where the transaction is agreed in foreign currency, its remaining equivalent shall be defined as the central rate of the Bulgarian National Bank applied to the foreign currency amount at the date of the transaction. (2) The accounting documents entering the enterprises in a foreign language shall be translated into Bulgarian in cases where this is provided for by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u210	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs in his unsupported part in this section. 1. Please vote unsupported by the Commission on a proposal. They voted 85 MPs: 11 against 47, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 5 which, following the Commission's amendment, found its place in its report. Please vote art. 5 on the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 4. Article 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u211	Under art. 6 there is a proposal from the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group not supported by the Commission: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1c. 3 at the end, after the point and the comma is added the expression There is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. There is a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 6 and offers the following editing: Art. 6. (1) The primary accounting document addressed to an external recipient shall contain at least the following information: 1. the name and number of the document containing only Arabic numerals; 2. date of issue; 3. name or name, address and unique identification code of the Commercial Register or a single Bulstat identification code or a single civil number or a personal number of a foreigner of the publisher and the recipient. 4. subject, natural and valuable expression of the business operation. (2) The address under para. 1, t. 3 is the address for correspondence under art. 28, para. 1 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. (3) The primary accounting document which concerns only the business of the undertaking shall contain at least the following information: 1. the name and number of the document containing only Arabic numerals; 2. date of issue; 3. name of the enterprise; 4. subject matter, natural and valuable expression of the business operation; 5. name and signature of the maker. (4) When drawing up an accounting document which affects only the activity of the undertaking by means of automatic devices or systems, the signature of the compiler may be replaced by a digital or other identifier, uniquely recognizing and determining the compiler of the accounting document. (5) Documentary justification is available where part of the required information under para. One and three, but she's got documents to verify it. (6) Except in the cases under para. 5 documentary justification is also available where the primary accounting document is issued by a person who is not an undertaking within the meaning of this law and the document lacks some of the information required under para. 1 where this document correctly reflects the documented business operation. (7) In the case of payment of public and private public and municipal liabilities arising under and under law, it shall be assumed that the business operation is documentaryly justified in the presence of the relevant payment document for the payment made.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u212	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 85 MPs: 9 against 53, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 6, which is supported by the same and edited, found a place in her report as well. Vote 80 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 5. Article 6 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u213	Under art. 7 there is a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of Menda Stoyanova, Georgi Kovachev and a group supported by the Commission all three. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 7 and offers the following editing: Art. 7. (1) Primary accounting document referred to in art. 6, para. 1 shall be issued where it is provided for by law. (2) An initial accounting document may not be issued where the business operation is documented with a fiscal bonus or a system bond issued under the ordinance under art. 118, para. 4 of the Value Added Tax Act, or with a security issued in accordance with the Ordinance on the Terms and Conditions for Printing and Control of Securities (promise, SG No. ...) and its recipient is a natural person who is not a trader. (3) Paragraph 2 shall not apply where the recipient has requested the issue of a primary accounting document. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u214	Statements? I won't. We shall vote on Articles 7 and 8........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 7 by importer is supported and edited by the Commission and art. 8 is fully Vote 81 MPs: 74, no objection, abstention 7. Articles 7 and 8 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u215	Under art. 9 has a proposal from the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group not supported by the Commission: Art. 9. No distortion or distortion of the entity's financial situation shall be allowed. There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported in principle by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 9 and offers the following editing: Art. 9. Not applicable: 1. reporting of business operations in non-accounting books or registers; 2. accounting for fictitious or insufficiently identified transactions, non-existent costs, as well as liabilities with an inaccurate item committed to bribe officials or conceal bribery.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u216	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 17, against 52, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's edited text of the importer for art. 9 which is reflected in the same report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u217	They voted 83 MPs: 77, against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u218	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10. Under art. 11 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 11 and offers the following editing: Art. 11. (1) In the construction and maintenance of the accounting system, undertakings shall ensure: 1. comprehensive chronological registration of accounting operations; 2. obtaining analytical and aggregated information by accounting means, presenting the company's annual financial statements in the most precise and appropriate manner; 3. interim and annual closure of the accounting registers; 4. amendments to the accounting records carried out by drawing up corrective accounting articles; 5. implementation of the individual weighing plan approved by the manager of the enterprise; 6. implementation of an accounting policy established by the head of the enterprise. (2) When accounting software is used, it must be developed in compliance with the requirements of this law and allow the data processed by it and the output documents to be in Bulgarian language.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u219	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 10, supported by the Commission and art. 11 in the version of the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 73 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u220	Under art. 12 has a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 12 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u221	We vote. Vote 80 MPs: 78, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u222	Section III - The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u223	We vote. They voted 83 MPs: 77, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u224	Under art. 13 has a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new item is created. 2: "2." accounting records and financial statements 10 years from 1 January of the reporting period following the reporting period to which they relate; 2. point 2 is t. 3 and is amended as follows: "3." tax control documents "up to 5 years after the expiry of the limitation period for the repayment of the public debt certified by those documents;' 3. create t. 4. "4." Financial audit documents in the public sector until the next internal audit and audit by the Court of Auditors is carried out; 4 point 3 is t. 5. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and supports the proposal under point 1. 2. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. Art. 13, which becomes Art. 12 and offers the following editing: Art. 12. (1) The accounting information shall be kept on paper and/or on a technical medium within the undertaking within the following time limits: 1. payroll payrolls.50 years from 1 January of the reporting period following the reporting period to which they relate; 2. accounting records and financial statements, including tax control documents, audit and follow-up financial inspections, 10 years from 1 January of the reporting period following the reporting period to which they relate; 3. all other accountancy media.. 3 years from 1 January of the reporting period following the reporting period to which they relate. (2) The accounting information may be stored in private or state archives under the Law on the National Archive Fund, subject to the requirements of para. 1. (3) Upon termination of an undertaking by transformation, the bearers of accounting information (paper and/or technical) shall be transmitted to the receiving and/or newly established undertaking/enterprises. (4) Upon termination of an undertaking or where the undertaking does not have a successor, payrolls shall be transferred to the National Insurance Institute in accordance with art. 5, para. 10 of the Social Security Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u225	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support it. Vote 78 MPs: 13 against 56, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 12 in the version of the Commission. Vote 74 MPs: 67 against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u226	Under art. 14 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14, which becomes art. 13. Under art. 15 has a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 15 which becomes Art. 14 and offers the following editing: Art. 14. (1) Upon termination of an employment, service or bond relationship with a person carrying out an on-going accounting and drawing up financial statements, the accounting records shall be transmitted to a person appointed by the head of the undertaking. (2) The acceptance and transmission under para. 1 shall be carried out in the presence of a committee in order and manner designated by the head of the undertaking. (3) Upon termination of the employment, service or bond of the head of the undertaking, the latter shall be obliged to forward to a person designated by the relevant competent authority of the undertaking, all accounting and other service records thereof.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u227	Statements? I won't. We vote Anblok Art. Art. 13 and art. 14 on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 77, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u228	Under Section IV, there is a proposal of the MP Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Section IV be amended as follows: "Department IV.............. the Minister of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16 which becomes Art. 15 on the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs for the creation of a new section and a new section of Section V with the name: the Rules and responsibilities of the head of the enterprise. The Commission supports the proposal:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u229	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of Section IV, as supported by the proposal on the Commission, art. 16 by importer, which becomes art. 15 on the Commission, and the Commission's proposal on the proposal of Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs for a new Section V Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u230	Under art. 17 has a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. point 3 2. point 4..................................................................................... 9 become respectively. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 17, which becomes art. 16 and offers the following editing: Art. 16. (1) The head of the enterprise shall: 1. validate the enterprise's individual accounts plan; 2. organise the current accounting in accordance with the provisions of this Law; 3. confirm the form of accounting that ensures the synchronized implementation of chronological and systematic (analytic and synthetic) accounting; 4. shall be responsible for drawing up, content and publication of the financial statements and annual reports required by this law; 5. determine the frequency of the financial statements for the needs of the management of the undertaking; 6. responsible for carrying out an independent financial audit by registered auditors; 7. determine the order and manner of carrying out inventory; 8. shall be responsible for keeping the accounting information in accordance with the order and within the time limits set out in Section III; 9. determine the order and movement of the accounting documents from the moment of their establishment or receipt in the undertaking until their destruction or transmission under this law. (2) The head and members of the management and supervisory body of the undertaking shall be responsible for drawing up, carrying out an independent financial audit by registered auditors and the publication of the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and annual reports under Chapter 7 in accordance with the requirements of that law and in accordance with their powers under the Commercial Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u231	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u232	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! It is important what we are voting on because we are imposing obligations on the heads of undertakings. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 of art. 17, para. 1 We place an obligation on the head of the enterprise to validate the form of accounting. However, the same form of accounting has not regulated the Law anywhere. Here we clearly place obligations on the head, which are unclear and there is no way for him to be responsible for this, even more sanctions are provided for in this regard. I urge you not to support this. 3, because it's vague and it'll cause problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u233	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs under art. 17, para. 1 which is not supported by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 19 against 53, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the text of art. 17, which becomes art. 16. Vote 87 MPs: 77 against 7, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u234	Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up a new division of financial statements.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u235	Voting mode. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u236	Under art. 18 has a proposal from the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 18 para. 2 is amended as follows: The annual financial statements of the sole traders under art. 3, para. 4 and micro-enterprises that did not operate during the reporting period may also be composed of the owners of the undertakings or their partners. Proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 18, which becomes Art. 17: Art. 17. (1) The interim, annual and consolidated accounts of the undertakings shall be drawn up by natural persons who are in a labour, service or bond relationship with the undertaking or by accounting undertakings. (2) Alinea 1 may not apply to the annual financial statements of the sole traders applying the method of the unilateral accounting record according to art. 3, para. 4 and for micro-enterprises under art. 19th para. 2 that did not operate during the reporting period. In such cases, the financial statements shall be drawn up by the owners or partners of those undertakings.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u237	Statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs under art. 18, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 16, against 60, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer, supported by the Commission, by the version made.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u238	Vote art. 18, which becomes Art. 17, as amended by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u239	I shall put to the vote the text supported by the Commission by the importer of art. 18, which becomes art. 17. They voted 91 MPs: 82 against 9, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u240	Under art. 19 by importer there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 19 which becomes Art. 18 and offers the following edit: Art. 18. Natural persons under art. 17, para. 1 that draw up the financial statements and the management and/or representing the accounting entities that sign the financial statements where the financial statements are drawn up by accounting entities must comply with the following requirements: 1. have an acquired compulsory minimum degree of completed education and corresponding actual experience in the specialty as follows: (a) higher accounting and economic education and internship in accounting, external and internal audit and financial inspection, tax revisions or as a lecturer in accounting and control, respectively: (aa) in Master's degree, 2 years; (bb) in Bachelor's degree.. 3 years; (c) in the degree of the professional Bachelor, 4 years; (b) other higher economic education and 5 years of experience in accounting, external and internal auditing and financial inspection, tax revisions or as a lecturer in accounting and control; (c) secondary economic education and 8 years of experience as an accountant; 2. not to be convicted of a crime of general character under Chapter 5 and Chapter Six, Section I of the Special Part of the Criminal Code. "Chapter 2" - Categories of enterprises and groups of undertakings. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. "Department I" - Categories of enterprises. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under art. 20 has a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20, which becomes art. 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u241	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 19 which becomes Art. 18, after the corresponding version, as well as the name of Chapter Two, Section I, and the text of art. 20, which becomes art. 19. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u242	Under art. 21 has a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 21, which becomes Art. 20 and offers the following editing: Art. 20. (1) Change in the category of art. 19 shall be carried out when an undertaking for the last two reporting periods ceases to meet two of the three indicators for the relevant category. The category shall be changed from the beginning of the next (third) reporting period. (2) In the cases under para. 1 where for the last two reporting periods the entity meets the indicators for two different categories, the same shall be categorized according to the indicators for the last reporting period. (3) For the reporting period in which an entity under § 1, item. 22 of the Additional Provisions ceased to be an undertaking of public interest, the same shall be reported as an undertaking of public interest. Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u243	I shall put to the vote art. 21, which becomes Art. 20, as well as Section II, supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Under art. 22 has a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 22, which becomes Art. 21 and offers the following editing: Art. 21. (1) For the purposes of this Law, the following categories of groups of undertakings shall be defined: 1. small groups; 2. medium groups; 3. large groups. (2) Small groups are groups of undertakings where the sum of the indicators according to their annual financial statements on a consolidated basis drawn up on 31 December of the current reporting period does not exceed the thresholds of at least two of the following three indicators: 1. balance sheet value of assets 8 000 000 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. net revenues from sales 16 000 000 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. average number of staff for the reporting period "50 people." (3) Average groups are groups of undertakings which are not small groups where the sum of the indicators according to their annual financial statements drawn up on a consolidated basis by 31 December of the current year does not exceed the thresholds of at least two of the following three indicators: 1. balance sheet value of assets - 38 000 000 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. net revenues from sales - 76 000 000 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. average number of staff for the reporting period "250 people." (4) Large groups of undertakings shall be groups where the sum of the indicators according to their annual financial statements on a consolidated basis drawn up by 31 December of the current year exceeds the thresholds of at least two of the following three indicators: 1. balance sheet value of assets - 38 000 000 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. net revenues from sales - 76 000 000 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. average number of staff for the reporting period
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u244	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the texts read by Mrs. Stoyanova. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u245	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23, which becomes art. 22, as in para. 1 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of Chapter three. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24, which becomes Art. 23. Under art. 25 has a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 25, which becomes art. 24 and offers the following editing: Art. 24. (1) Financial statements shall present the financial and financial situation and financial performance of the undertaking's activities, cash flows and equity faithfully and honestly. (2) True and fair presentation requires a credible display of the effects of operations, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and criteria for the recognition of assets, liabilities, revenues and costs laid down in the applicable accounting standards. (3) The content of the financial statements must be clear and understandable.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u246	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposals made, supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u247	Under art. 26 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 26, para. 3 to be amended as follows: The financial statements shall state the name and surname of the persons referred to in para. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 26, which becomes Art. 25 and offers the following editing: Art. 25. (1) The financial statements shall indicate: 1. the name of the enterprise, its legal form, its registered office and its management address, as well as information if the undertaking is terminated; 2. the register in which the undertaking is entered and its registration number from that register; 3. other information required by this or other law and applicable accounting standards. (2) The financial statements shall be signed by: 1. the manager of the enterprise; 2. the natural person who has drawn up the financial statement or by the representing and/or managing entity where the financial statement is composed of an accounting entity. (3) The financial statements shall state the name of the person under para. 2 and the stamp of the enterprise and the stamp of the accounting entity shall be placed. (4) Where the financial statements are subject to independent financial audit, signatures and seals of persons who have carried out the independent financial audit of the financial statement shall be placed in accordance with the requirements of the Independent Financial Audit Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u248	I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs under art. 26, not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 75 MPs: 19 against 38, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 26, which becomes Art. 25 with the corresponding version supported by the Commission. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u249	Vote 74 MPs: 66 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u250	Article 27. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and group. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 27, which becomes art. 26, and offers the following editing: Art. 26. (1) The items to be presented in the financial statements shall be recognised and assessed in accordance with the following principles: 1. an undertaking active.. it is assumed that the undertaking is active and will remain active in the foreseeable future; it is assumed that the undertaking has neither the intention nor the need to liquidate or significantly reduce the volume of its activity; 2. the consistency of the presentation and the comparative information. The presentation and classification of the articles in the financial statements, accounting policies and valuation methods shall be maintained and applied consistently during the subsequent reporting periods in order to achieve comparability of the accounts and indicators of the financial statements; 3. the risk assessment and reporting of suspected risks and expected losses in the accounting treatment of business operations in order to obtain a real financial result; 4. The entity shall draw up its financial statements, with the exception of the cash-flow accounts, on the basis of the cash-flow-in-flow principle, the effects of transactions and other events shall be recognised at the time of their occurrence, irrespective of the time of receipt or payment of the cash or their equivalents and shall be included in the financial statements for the period to which they relate; 5. independence of individual reporting periods and a value link between the starting and end balance sheet, each reporting period shall be treated for itself regardless of its objective relationship with the previous and the next reporting period, and the data of the financial statement at the beginning of the current reporting period shall coincide with the data at the end of the previous reporting period; 6. the materiality of the entity presents each material group of articles of a similar nature separately; the aggregation of amounts by similar nature is permitted where the amounts are non-essential or the aggregation is made for the sake of clarity. The amount of the article is substantial if the omissions and inaccurate presentation of the position could affect the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements or would lead to a breach of the requirement for a true and fair representation of the property and financial situation, the financial performance of the activity, changes in cash flows and in equity; 7. compensation of the entity does not carry out captures between assets and liabilities or income or expenses and takes into account separately both assets and liabilities and income and expenses; 8. an advantage of the content in the form of the transactions and events shall be reflected in accordance with their content, nature and economic reality, and not formally according to their legal form; 9. an assessment of the positions recognised in the financial statements shall be carried out at an acquisition price which may be a purchase price or cost or other method where required in the applicable accounting standards. (2) The undertakings shall carry out the accounting in accordance with the principles laid down in para. 1 or in accordance with the principles and requirements of International Accounting Standards, where the entity's accounting base is the International Accounting Standards. Article 28. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and group. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 28, which becomes art. 27, and offers the following editing: Art. 27. Undertakings shall draw up: 1. an annual financial statement as at 31 December of the reporting period; 2. consolidated financial statement as at 31 December of the reporting period where the parent undertaking is a company in Part Three of Part Two of the Commercial Act; 3. interim financial statements covering a period shorter than one reporting period when required by a law or by a decision of the head of the undertaking. Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u251	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for Articles 27 and 28, which shall become Articles 26 and 27 after the amendment of the Commission and the name of Section II by importer, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 74 MPs: 67, none, abstention 7. Articles 26 and 27 and the name of Section II of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u252	Article 29. Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev and group. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 29 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Al. 1 is amended as follows: For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Inventory shall be carried out in order and manner defined by the management bodies of the undertaking. 2. A new para is being created. 3: The Minister of Finance may also set other deadlines for carrying out an inventory by budgetary undertakings. 3. Al. 3 becomes para. 4. The proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29, which becomes art. 28. Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u253	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 68 MPs: 14 against 45 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 29 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 28, as well as the name of Section III of the Report of the same Commission. They voted 71 MPs: 66, against 5, no abstentions. Article 28 of the Commission report and the name of Section III have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u254	Article 30. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 30, which becomes art. 29, and offers the following edit: Art. 29. (1) The annual financial statement for all undertakings shall consist of at least a balance sheet, a profit and loss account and an annex. (2) The form, structure and content of the complete set of the financial statement shall be determined by the applicable accounting standards. (3) The annual financial statement of sole traders, in which the amount of net sales revenue for the current reporting period does not exceed BGN 200 000. and is not subject to compulsory independent financial audit, may consist only of a statement of revenue and expenditure. (4) The annual financial statement of micro-enterprises may consist only of a reduced balance sheet and a reduced statement of revenue and expenditure under sections. (5) Paragraph 4 shall not apply to investment companies and financial holding companies classified as micro-enterprises. (6) The annual financial statement of small enterprises may consist of a reduced balance sheet, a reduced statement of revenue and expenditure under Sections and Groups and Annex. (7) The annual financial statements under para. 3, 4 and 6 give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial situation and the results of the business of the enterprise. (8) The undertakings under para. 1, 3, 4 and 6 may optionally draw up a complete set of financial statements. (9) The annual financial statements of medium and large enterprises and of public interest undertakings shall be drawn up in a complete set according to the applicable accounting standards. (10) For undertakings controlled by the State or municipalities or assisted by them through subsidies, preferential loans, state guarantees and other forms of State aid, the Minister of Finance may require the submission of additional reports and information in its designated form, content, timing and order of production and presentation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 30. Section IV. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32, which becomes Art. 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u255	Under Rule 33 "Project of Menda Stoyanova." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 33, which becomes Art. 32, and offers the following editing: Art. 32. A consolidated financial statement may not be drawn up by a parent undertaking of a small group unless there is at least one public-interest entity in the group. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34, which becomes art. 33. Chapter four: the Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the division. Under Article 35 "Proposition of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova: The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal of the MP Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 35, which becomes art. 34, and offers the following edit: Art. 34. (1) The annual financial statements of undertakings of public interest shall be drawn up on the basis of the International Accounting Standards. (2) The annual financial statements of micro enterprises, small, medium and large enterprises shall be drawn up on the basis of national accounting standards. (3) The undertakings under para. 2 may choose to draw up their annual financial statements on the basis of International Accounting Standards, provided that no change has taken place on the accounting basis. (4) An entity which, during one reporting period, has drawn up and submitted its annual financial statement on the basis of International Accounting Standards shall not be able to apply National Accounting Standards. (5) Consolidated and interim financial statements shall be drawn up on the basis of the accounting standards on the basis of which the annual financial statements of the entity drawing up the consolidated or intermediate financial statements are drawn up. Under Article 36, the proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 36, which becomes art. 35, and offers the following edit: Art. 35. (1) The annual financial statements of the undertakings in liquidation or insolvency proceedings shall be drawn up on the basis of a national accounting standard. (2) Enterprises - non-profit corporate entities, regardless of their category under art. 19, draw up their annual financial statements on the basis of a national accounting standard. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37, which becomes Art. 36. Chapter 5, the Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the division.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u256	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote Articles 30 to 37, including by importer, which are reflected in the Commission's report as Articles 29 to 36, including the name of Section IV and Chapters 4 and 5 of the Commission report. Please vote! They voted 86 MPs: 82, none, abstention 4. Articles 29 to 36 of the Commission report and the names of Section IV and Chapters 4 and 5 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u257	Proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs for art. 38. The proposal is not supported. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The offer is backed up. The proposal of the MP Georgi Kovachev is withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. Art. 38, which becomes art. 37 and offers the following editing: Art. 37. (1) Mandatory independent financial audit by statutory auditors shall be subject to the annual and consolidated financial statements of: 1. small enterprises which, on 31 December of the current reporting period, exceed at least two of the following indicators: (a) balance sheet value of the assets - BGN 2 000 000• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (b) net sales revenue 4 000 000 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (c) average number of staff for the reporting period - 50 persons; 2. medium and large enterprises; 3. undertakings of public interest; 4. the medium and large groups and groups in which there is at least one enterprise of public interest; 5. undertakings for which this requirement is established by law. (2) Regardless of para. 1, the annual and consolidated financial statements of joint stock companies and senior equity companies shall be subject to compulsory independent financial audit, except where companies have not operated during the reporting period. (3) Consolidated financial statements and annual financial statements of undertakings included in the consolidation shall be subject to independent financial audit. (4) Mandatory independent financial audit by statutory auditors shall be subject to the annual financial statements of non-profit legal entities designated for carrying out a public utility activity where, for the current year, they exceed one of the following indicators: 1. balance sheet value of assets as of December 31st - 1 000 000 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. amount of net income from business and non-profit income for the current year - BGN 2 000 000• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. total amount of the funding received during the current year as of 31 December of the current year the funding received during the previous reporting periods................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (5) Mandatory independent financial audit by registered auditors shall be subject to the annual financial statements of non-profit legal entities designated for carrying out public utility activities and operating under art. 116 of the Family Code. (6) Registered auditors carrying out independent financial audit of annual and consolidated financial statements shall make an opinion compulsory in the audit report: 1. is the report of the activity of the financial statements in accordance with the same reporting period; 2. has the activity report been prepared in accordance with the applicable legal requirements and state whether, as a result of the acquired knowledge and understanding of the enterprise's activities and the situation in which it operates, there have been cases of material false presentation in the activity report and indicate the nature of the false presentation; 3. the corporate governance statement shall provide the information required by the relevant regulatory acts; 4. the non-financial declaration has been provided and the declaration has been drawn up in accordance with the requirements of this Law; 5. Has a report been submitted on payments to governments and whether the report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u258	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u259	Dear Mr. Glauchev! My fellow Members, I would like you to pay attention to this point, because it is important for the following reason. This is about the two indicators of value of assets and net sales revenue, where there is a difference between the different Member States. However, honourable Members, there is a strong European Union directive 2013/34 which explicitly stresses that the European Union will work towards reducing the administrative and financial burden, note colleagues, micro- and small businesses in the European Union. As it comes to the fact that the European Union is seeking a balance of interests of audit firms in the European Union and the interest of micro and small companies. You know perfectly well that about 90% of gross domestic product is produced by micro- and small companies, which is why this issue is extremely important for the European Union. What do we offer, honourable Members? After talks with audit organisations, representatives of small and medium-sized companies and after a thorough study of European experience, we offer higher indicators of book value and turnover compared to the government's proposal and 4 million respectively. lv. the carrying amount of the assets and 6 million. lv. the annual turnover. This, honourable Members, to compare, is between two and four times below the recommended indicators of the European Union, that is, we offer in a much lighter form an increase in the protection of micro and small companies with a view to the balance of interests with audit organisations. We do not agree with the government's proposal, which is too unambitious and frankly defends the interest of audit firms and accounting firms. For this reason, we propose an increase in these indicators. For comparison, honourable Members, in Romania, this indicator is 3 million. 650,000. We offer 4 million euros, Romanians offer almost 8 million. In the Commission, we have shared that the comparison of these indicators of Germany, France, Romania, Poland, the Czech Republic is based on the gross domestic product per capita, in order to avoid, colleagues, the differences in the economic level of the Member States of the European Union. For example, in Romania, gross domestic product per capita is $19,744. The difference is in several hundred dollars more, and there are twice as many indicators, so they are twice as protective of their micro and small companies. Therefore, colleagues, I ask you on this issue to listen to the European Union's experience, to comply with the European Union directive to a greater extent and to balance the interests of Bulgarian small and micro companies, because, honourable Members, the Bulgarian economy, our income depends mainly on the work of Bulgarian micro and small companies. Thank you. Please support this pro-European and pro-Bulgarian proposal!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u260	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote! They voted 84 MPs: 22, against 47, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 38 by importer, which shall become Art. 38 by version of the Commission. 37 in her report. Vote 82 MPs: for 70, against 10, abstention 2. Article 37 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u261	Chapter 6 of the Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the division. Under art. 39 The proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of Members of the National Assembly. Proposal of the National Assembly Representative Kovachev and a group of Members of the National Assembly. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 39, which becomes art. 38, and offers the following editing: Art. 38. (1) Enterprises shall publish the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and annual reports under Chapter 7 adopted by the General Assembly of Partners or Shareholders or by the relevant authority as follows: 1. all traders within the meaning of the Commercial Law by stating for registration and presentation of a notice in the Commercial Register by 30 June of the following year; 2. non-profit legal entities designated for carrying out a public utility activity by declaring them to be registered and made available in the Central Register at the Ministry of Justice under the terms and conditions of the Non-profit Legal Entities Act by 30 June of the following year; 3. the other enterprises through an economic publication or via the Internet, by 30 June of the following year. (2) Where the financial statement is originally requested for publication within the period under para. 1 and a refusal to publish under art. 22, para. 5 of the Commercial Register Act and within 14 days of its entry into force a re-applied application for publication is deemed to have been submitted within a period of time. (3) The annual financial statements and the activity report shall be published in the form and in the text on the basis of which the registered auditor has expressed his opinion. The full text of the audit report shall also be published. (4) Small enterprises which are not subject to compulsory independent financial audit may not publish their profit and loss accounts and activity reports. (5) By order of para. 1 together with the annual financial statement, joint stock companies, limited liability companies and companies which are medium-sized or large undertakings or public-interest undertakings shall also publish information on the proposal of the management of profit distribution or loss for the previous year and the decision of the general meeting of shareholders/partners on how to allocate profits or to cover losses for the previous year. (6) The annual financial statement of a parent undertaking drawing up a consolidated financial statement shall be published at the same time as the consolidated financial statement of the group together with the annual reports referred to in Chapter 7 thereto. (7) Where the accounts and reports of the undertakings under para. 1, t. 3 shall be published on the Internet, free free access shall be granted for a period of not less than three years after the date of their publication. (8) The undertakings under para. 1, t. 3 provide information on the place where their reports and reports are published on request. (9) Alinei 1-8 shall not apply to budgetary undertakings and sole traders which are not subject to compulsory independent financial audit. (10) A parent undertaking which is both a subsidiary and according to the applicable accounting standards shall not be obliged to draw up a consolidated financial statement published in Bulgarian within the time limits laid down in para. 1 consolidated financial statement and consolidated activity report drawn up by the parent undertaking. Where the parent undertaking is regulated by the legislation of a third country, the consolidated financial statement shall be certified by auditors or audit entities that carry out an audit under the law of the State applicable to the parent undertaking. The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the division. Section I - The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. Under art. 40 supposed by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. Article 40, which shall become Article 40. 39, and offers the following editing: Art. 39. Undertakings shall draw up an annual activity report containing at least the following information: 1. objective review, which presents the true and fair development and performance of the enterprise's activities and its state, together with a description of the main risks it faces; 2. analysis of financial and non-financial basic indicators of the outcome of the business activity, including information on environmental issues and employees; when preparing the analysis in the activity report, references to the amounts of expenditure reported in the annual financial statements and additional explanations may be included; 3. all important events which occurred after the date on which the annual financial statement is drawn up; 4. the likely future development of the enterprise; 5. actions in the field of research and development; 6. information on the acquisition of own shares required under art. 187e of the Commercial Law; 7. the existence of branches of the enterprise; 8. the financial instruments used by the entity and, where it is essential to assess the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial result shall also be disclosed: (a) the objectives and policy of the financial risk management entity, including its hedging policy, of each underlying type of hedging position to which hedge accounting applies; (b) an entity's exposure to price, credit and liquidity risk and cash flow risk. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 41, which becomes art. 40, and offers the following editing: Art. 40. (1) The undertakings in the public interest under § 1, item 1. The additional provisions include in their activity report a corporate governance statement under the Public Offering of Securities Act. (2) The corporate governance statement may be presented as: 1. a separate report published together with the activity report; 2. a document which is publicly available on the enterprise's website.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u262	Let's stop here. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapters Six and Seven, Section I and Articles 39 to 41 by importer, which in the Commission's report shall become Articles 38 to 40 inclusive. Please vote. Vote 94 MPs: 92, none, abstention 2. Articles 38 to 40, including the Commission report, as well as the name of Chapters 6 and 7 and Section I of that report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u263	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 42, which becomes art. 41, such as the words "art." The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: 48..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u264	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. Please vote on the Commission proposal for art. 42 by importer to become art. 41, as well as the words. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 48.................................................................................. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u265	Under art. 43 The proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. Art. 43, which becomes Art. 42, and offers the following editing: Art. 42. (1) Micro- and small enterprises which are not subject to compulsory independent financial audit may not draw up an activity report provided that the information on the acquisition of their own shares required by art. 187e of the Commercial Act is disclosed in the Annex to the annual financial statement or in a footnote to the drawn-up balance sheet. (2) Alinea 1 shall not apply to investment companies and financial holding companies classified as micro- or small enterprises. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 44, which becomes Art. 43. Under Section II, the Commission supports the wording of the importer for the name of the division. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 45, which becomes art. 44, such as the words "art." The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 46, which becomes art. 45, such as the words "art." 40 "42" shall be replaced by "chl." 39 " 41 ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47, which becomes Art. 46. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48, which becomes art. 47, such as the words "art." 40 "42" shall be replaced by "chl." 39 " 41 ". Section III - The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u266	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals for the texts of the importer from art. Art. 41 to 48 including...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u267	Art. 1 (1) (a) Art. 43 to 48...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u268	... Which in the Commission's report are numbered as art. Art. 42, Art. 47, together with relevant changes in numerical expressions in the Commission report and the name of Section II and Section III. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u269	Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u270	Article 49 supposed by the Parliamentary Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 49, which becomes art. 48, and offers the following editing: Art. 48. (1) The non-financial declaration shall contain a description of the enterprise's policies with regard to their activities carried out in the field of ecology, social affairs and those relating to employees, human rights, the fight against corruption, diversity and gender equality in the management bodies of the enterprises, the number of women and men, age, geographical diversity, education, professional qualities, religion. (2) The non-financial declaration shall include: 1. a brief description of the business model of the enterprise, target, strategy, organisational structure, infrastructure, products, followed policies regarding the main and ancillary activities of the enterprise and others; 2. a description of the policies that the entity has adopted and follows with regard to environmental and social issues, including the activities that it has carried out during the reporting period and the results thereof; 3. the objectives, risks and tasks to be covered by environmental and social policies, including a description of such activities that would have adverse effects on ecology, employees or other social issues; 4. a description of the main indicators for the results of activities related to environmental and social issues. (3) Where the entity does not comply with the policies adopted in respect of one or more of the issues.. the non-financial statement shall contain a clear and reasoned explanation of the reasons why the policies adopted are not respected. (4) The non-financial declaration under para. 1 shall include references and additional explanations as appropriate for the amounts of expenditure reported in the annual financial statements. (5) Enterprises may not publish any information on future changes in their policies relating to environmental or social issues which are being negotiated where the publication of such information would lead to damage to the undertaking. Non-published information in the course of negotiations shall not interfere with objective understanding of the development, results, condition of the enterprise and the impact of its activity on ecology and social issues. Where such information is not published, the manager and members of the management and supervisory body of the undertaking shall provide a reasoned opinion on the reasons why the information has not been published. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 50, which becomes art. 49, and offers the following editing: Art. 49. Undertakings have fulfilled the obligation to draw up a non-financial declaration where: 1. the activity report shall include information and analysis on environmental and employee issues; 2. a separate report has been prepared on the information required for the non-financial declaration, provided that this report: (a) shall be published together with the activity report; (b) shall be made publicly available by 30 June of the following year on the enterprise's website, indicating this fact in the activity report. Article 51 supposed by the Parliamentary Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. Article 51, which shall become Article 51. 50, and offers the following edit: Art. 50. An entity which is a subsidiary shall not draw up a non-financial declaration if the undertaking and its subsidiaries are included in the consolidated activity report or in the separate report of another entity drawn up in accordance with the requirements of that law. Section IV - The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. Article 52 supposed by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 52, which becomes art. 51, and offers the following editing: Art. 51. Public interest undertakings which are a parent undertaking in a large group which, on 31 December, exceeds on a consolidated basis the average number of employees in the financial year of 500 persons, shall include in the consolidated activity report a consolidated non-financial statement containing the information under art. 48, para. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 53, which becomes art. 52 and in it the words......................................................................................... 49, para. Art. 2, Art. 4, Art. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 to amend the Annex to this Regulation. 48, para. Art. 3, Art. 5, Art. 49 Section V - The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. Article 54 supposed by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. Art. 54, which becomes art. 53, and offers the following edit: Art. 53. (1) Large enterprises and public-interest enterprises operating in the mining industry or in the logging of virgin forests shall draw up and publish an annual report on payments made to governments at the same time as the annual report on their activities. (2) Annual report on payments to governments shall not be drawn up by a subsidiary where the following conditions are met at the same time: 1. the parent undertaking is governed by the legislation of the Member State of the European Union; 2. payments to governments made by the undertaking are included in the consolidated report on payments to governments drawn up by the parent undertaking under Section VI. (3) Annual report on payments to governments shall not be drawn up if a single payment or a series of related payments of up to BGN 195 600 has been made in one reporting period. (4) The annual report on payments to governments shall not include payments on projects of up to 195 600 BGN. Article 55 supposed by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 55, which becomes art. 54, and offers the following edit: Art. 54. The annual report on payments to governments shall contain the following information for the relevant reporting period: 1. the total amount of payments made to each government; 2. the total amount for each of the types of payments made to each government as follows: (a) production rights; (b) taxes on profits and income taxes; the paid value added tax, excise duty and income tax of natural persons shall not be disclosed; (c) copyright, licence and related rights; (d) dividends; (e) bonuses for signing a contract, opening and production; (e) licensing fees, rents, registration fees and other fees for licences and concessions; (g) payments for infrastructure improvements; 3. the total amount of payments per project separately, as well as the total amount per type of payments under item 3. 2 for each project; where the undertaking has made payments on several projects to the same person representing a government within the meaning of the law, the disclosure may be by persons and not by projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u271	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote Articles 49 to 55, including by importer, which shall become Articles 48 to 54, in the Commission report, as well as the names of Section IV and V. They voted 93 MPs: 84, against 3, abstention 6. Articles 48 to 54, including the Commission report, as well as the names of Sections IV and V, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u272	Article 56 "Proposition of the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 56 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u273	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject art. 56 by importer. Please vote on the Commission proposal. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to reject art. 56 by importer accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u274	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 57, which becomes art. 55. Article 58 "Project of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. Art. 58, which becomes art. 56, and offers the following edit: Art. 56. The annual report on payments to governments reflects the nature and not the form of the payments or activities concerned. Payments and activities cannot be separated or combined for the purpose of deviating from the application of this law. Article 59 supposed by the Parliamentary Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 59, which becomes art. 57 and offers the following edit: Art. 57. (1) A report on payments to governments may not be drawn up if undertakings are obliged to draw up such a report for third parties under a law and the report complies with the requirements of that law. (2) The report under para. 1 shall be published together with the annual financial statement. Section VI - The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. Article 60 supposed by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 60, which becomes art. 58, and offers the following editing: Art. 58. The parent undertakings operating in the mining or forestry industry and which are obliged to draw up consolidated financial statements must also draw up a consolidated report on payments to governments in accordance with the requirements of Section V. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 61, which becomes art. 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 62, which becomes Art. 60. Article 63 supposed by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. Art. 63, which becomes Art. 61, and offers the following editing: Art. 61. The parent undertaking shall not draw up a consolidated report under art. 58: 1. for a small or medium group of undertakings, except where a related undertaking is an undertaking of public interest; 2. where the parent undertaking which is regulated under the legislation of a Member State of the European Union is a subsidiary and its parent undertaking is regulated under the law of a Member State of the European Union. Under art. 64 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. Art. 64, which becomes Art. 62, and offers the following editing: Art. 62. (1) A subsidiary, including an undertaking of public interest, shall not be included in the consolidated report on payments to governments where one of the following conditions is met: 1. the parent undertaking is prevented to a significant extent by long-term restrictions in exercising its rights on the assets or management of the subsidiary; 2. the information necessary for the preparation of the consolidated report on payments to governments cannot be obtained without excessive costs or unnecessary delays; 3. the shares or shares of the enterprise shall be held only for the purpose of their subsequent sale. (2) Paragraph 1 shall apply only if the subsidiary is not included in the consolidated financial statement under the same conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u275	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts by importer of art. Art. 57, Art. 64 including which in the Commission report after the corresponding version are numbered by art. Art. 55 to art. 62 including as well as the name of Section VI. Please vote. Vote 84 MPs: 80, none, abstention 4. Articles 55 to 62 including, together with the name of Section VI of the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u276	Chapter eight. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 65, which becomes art. 63. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66, which becomes Art. 64. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 67, which becomes Art. 65. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 68, which becomes Art. 66. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 69, which becomes art. 67. Chapter nine. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u277	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the names of Chapter 8 and Chapter 9 by importer, supported by the Commission, as well as the texts of the importer as members from 65 to 69 including those of the Commission report. Art. 63, Art. 67 including those supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 85, none, abstention 4. Articles 63 to 67 on the Commission report, together with the names of Chapters Eight and Ninth, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u278	Under art. 70 has a proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 70, which becomes art. 68, and offers the following editing: Art. 68. (1) Head who violates the provision of art. 9, is punished with a fine from 500 to 5000 BGN and the enterprise is subject to a penalty of 2,000 to 10 000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 a fine or a double penalty is imposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u279	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the unsupported proposal of Mr. Gechev and a group of MPs. They voted 91 MPs: 13 against 57 abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 68. Vote 84 MPs: 81 against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u280	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 71, which becomes art. 69. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 72, which becomes Art. 70, such as the words "art." 18, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 17, para. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 73, which becomes Art. 71, and offers the following editing: Art. 71. (1) Person who has drawn up a financial statement without meeting the requirements of art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 18 is punished with a fine of 500 to 3000 BGN. To an accounting entity which draws up a financial statement without meeting the requirements of art. 18, a penalty of 2000 to 5000 BGN is imposed. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 a fine or a double penalty is imposed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 74, which becomes Art. 72. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 75, which becomes Art. 73. Under art. 76 has a proposal from the National Representative Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. There is a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 76, which becomes Art. 74, and offers the following edit: Art. 74. (1) Whoever is liable and does not publish a financial statement shall be punished with a fine of 200 to 3000 BGN, and the undertaking shall be subject to a penalty of 0.1 to 0,5 per cent of net sales income for the reporting period to which the non-published financial statement relates, but not less than 200 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 a fine or a double penalty is imposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u281	I shall put to the vote Members from 69 to 73 including, with their respective references on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u282	I reported to art. 74.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u283	Yeah, but there's an unsupported proposal. Vote 97 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u284	It's withdrawn. Mr. Kovachev said at the beginning of the meeting. Then he announced that he withdrew all the proposals he had not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u285	Okay. Vote art. 74 on the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u286	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 77, which becomes Article 77. 75. There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova under art. 78, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. Article 78, which becomes Art. 76, and offers the following edit: Art. 76. (1) Whoever entrusts an independent financial audit to a person carrying out an activity as a registered auditor without being registered under the Act on Independent Financial Audit shall be punished with a fine of 500 to 5000 BGN and a penalty of 2000 to 10 000 BGN shall be imposed on the undertaking. (2) Whoever carries out an audit without having been registered auditor under the Law on Independent Financial Audit shall be punished with a fine of 500 to 5000 BGN. (3) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 and 2 shall be subject to a fine or penalty of double size. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 79, which becomes Art. 77. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 80, which becomes Art. 78. "Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u287	Statements? I won't. We are voting for members with numbers 75, 76, 77, 78 and the name of the division Vote 89 MPs: 82, no objection, abstention 7. The texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u288	Paragraph 1 - Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u289	Will you read Mr. Gechev's unsupported proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u290	Yeah, I'll read it: The following amendments shall be made to the Additional Provisions: 1. 7 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 7. "Development and distortion of the financial situation' means any disregard of the accounting rules in force under that law and applicable accounting standards, the compilation of an incorrect accounting document or false presentation of the financial situation and the financial performance of the undertaking, leading to a material breach of the reliability of the financial statements. A distortion and distortion is also the taking of apparent and/or fictitious transactions leading to a material breach of the reliability of the financial statements drawn up. 2. t. 9 ssssssssssssssssssssssssss; 3. t. 10 becomes t. 9 and amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 9. The International Accounting Standards are the international accounting standards adopted by the European Commission pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting standards. International accounting standards include: International Accounting Standards (IAS), International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and their interpretations. International accounting standards also include subsequent amendments and additions to those standards and interpretations of their implementation adopted by the European Commission pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting standards. 4. 11.................................................................. 27 become respectively. 5. 28 becomes t. 27, in the second sentence, the expression..... and the exceptional costs.................................................................................................. is 6. 29............................................... 31 are respectively. 28............................................... 30. 7. Thirty-two out. 8. Thirty-three is out. 9. 34.................................................................. 37 are respectively. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 1 and propose the following wording: ................................................................................... For the 1. "Budget enterprises" are all persons applying budgets, accounts for EU funds and accounts for foreign funds under the Public Finance Act, including the National Insurance Institute, the National Health Insurance Fund, the State Higher Schools, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Bulgarian National Television, the Bulgarian National Radio, the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, as well as all other persons who are budgetary organisations within the meaning of § 1, t. 5 of the Additional Provisions of the Public Finance Act. 2. The group of undertakings is the parent undertaking and all its subsidiaries. 3. The time during which the person worked without an employment service, as well as the time during which the person was doing personal work or engaged in a free profession and was fully provided for at his own expense. The concept of actual service does not include the time of the military service and the time for raising a young child. 4. A subsidiary is a legal entity controlled by another legal entity (mother). Legal persons who are subsidiaries of the subsidiary shall also be considered to be subsidiaries of the parent undertaking. 5. Inventory is the process of preparation and actual verification through different methods of the natural and value parameters of the company's assets and liabilities at a specific date, comparing the results obtained with the accounting data and identifying possible differences. 6. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: (a) companies whose sole activity is to invest their funds in different securities, immovable property and other assets for the sole purpose of allocating investment risks and their shareholders to benefit from the results of the management of their assets; (b) companies related to fixed capital investment companies if the only subject of activity of those related companies is to acquire fully paid shares issued by those investment companies without prejudice to art. 22, Paragraph 1, point (h) of Directive 2012/30/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the coordination of the guarantees required in the Member States for companies within the meaning of art. 54, para. 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, to protect the interests of both partners and third parties as regards the establishment of public limited liability companies and the maintenance and modification of their capital in order to make such guarantees equivalent (OJ L 315/74 of 14 November 2012.). 7. A consolidated financial statement is a financial statement representing the property and financial situation, the reported financial result, the changes in cash flows and the equity of the undertakings included in the consolidation as if they were one undertaking. 8. The International Accounting Standards (IAS) were adopted in accordance with Regulation (EC) 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of International Accounting Standards (OB, L 243/1 of 11 September 2002). and include International Accounting Standards (IAS), International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) and related interpretations (SIC-IFRIC interpretations), subsequent amendments to these standards and related interpretations, future standards and related interpretations issued or adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). 9. This is the place of business within the meaning of § 1, point (b) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 659/1999. 5 of the Additional Provisions of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. 10. The independent financial audit is the audit under the Independent Financial Audit Act. 11. The net sales revenue is the amounts of the sale of production, goods and services derived from the normal activity of the undertaking, reduced by trade concessions, value added tax and other taxes directly related to revenue. 12. It is a set of business operations carried out regularly by the undertaking within the framework of its activity. 13. "Basic activity' within the meaning of point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 22 Please, Madam President, edit here to add: letter........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u291	That's in point 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u292	Yeah. "13." "Basic activity' within the meaning of point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 22, point (i) and (ii) is the business of the trading company where the total value of the net sales revenue of the activity concerned represents more than 50 percent of the total value of the net sales revenue of the reporting period. 14. It is the accounting year (January 1, December 31), except where otherwise provided for in this law. 15. For the purposes of Chapter 7, Section V shall be paid in cash or in kind by an undertaking operating in the mining industry or by an undertaking operating in the logging from virgin forests for obligations to the government under art. 54, p. 2. 16. The offence committed within one year of the entry into force of the criminal decree punishing the offender for the same type of infringement shall be repeated. 17. For the purposes of Chapter 7, Section V shall be a national, regional or local authority of a Member State of the European Union or of a third country. The use of the government includes the directorate, agency or undertaking controlled by the authorities of the State. 18. A parent undertaking is a legal person exercising control over one or more subsidiaries. 19. A company operating in the mining industry is an undertaking engaged in research, search, discovery, development and extraction of minerals, oil, natural gas or other raw materials falling within the scope of the economic activities listed in Section C of Annex I, items 05-08 to Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006 establishing the statistical classification of economic activities NACE Rev. 2 and amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 3037/90 as well as certain EC regulations on specific statistical areas (OJ L 393/1 of 30 December 2006.), hereinafter referred to as (Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006). 20. An enterprise operating in virgin forests under Annex I, Section A, heading 02.2 to Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006 is an undertaking operating in virgin forests. 21. For the purposes of Chapter 7, Section V shall be operational activities managed under a contract, licence, lease, concession or similar legal agreements constituting a basis for an obligation to pay to a government. If such agreements are linked to each other, they shall be considered as one project. 22. The public-interest entities are: (a) undertakings whose transferable securities are admitted to trading on the regulated market in a Member State of the European Union; (b) credit institutions; (c) insurance and reinsurance undertakings; (d) pension insurance companies and the funds they manage; (e) investment firms which are large undertakings under this law; (f) collective investment schemes and management companies within the meaning of the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings which are large undertakings under this Law; (g) financial institutions within the meaning of the Credit Institutions Act which are large undertakings under this Law; (h) s) Holding Bulgarian State Railways (Bulgarian State Railways) EAD and its subsidiaries; National Railway Infrastructure Company; (i) companies whose main activity is to produce and/or transport and/or sell electricity and/or heat and which are large undertakings under this law; (k) commercial companies whose main activity is to import and/or transport and/or distribute and/or transit natural gas and which are large undertakings under this law; (l) commercial companies whose main activity is to provide water supply and sewerage services. 23. A regulated market is the one within the meaning of art. 73 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act. 24. The management of an undertaking is a person or persons who personally direct the undertaking as owners, managers or authorised by contract who are responsible for the entire economic activity of the undertaking in front of the owner or owners of the shareholders, the shareholders, the partners, the local self-government or the state. 25. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: 26. The General Government (General Government) sector is defined by the European System of National and Regional Accounts in the Community. 27. The accounting entity is any person registered under the Commercial Law or under the law of another Member State of the European Union or of a State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area where the purpose of the activity is to organise accounting and drawing up financial statements. 28. The financial holding companies are companies whose sole activity is the acquisition of shareholdings in other companies, the management of those holdings and the recovery of profits from them, without directly or indirectly taking part in the management of those companies and without prejudice to the rights held by financial holding companies as shareholders. 29. The code shall be unique to the person who has the right to perform certain actions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u293	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the unsupported proposal of Mr. Gechev and a group of MPs. Vote 89 MPs: 23, against 50, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting § 1 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: 78 against 7, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Procedure, Ms. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u294	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose that we extend the working time until the final adoption of the Accounting Act at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u295	It may not be necessary, because I think we can participate in this until 5:00 p.m., but just in case, I'm voting on the procedural proposal. They voted 93 MPs: 85, against 3, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u296	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for the creation of a new § 3 in the Additional Provisions. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. Micro-enterprises, outside their relief under this law, are treated as small enterprises. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for the creation of a new § 4 in the Additional Provisions. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ Public interest undertakings for the purposes of this law shall be treated as large undertakings, with the exception of the applicable accounting base, irrespective of the book value of the assets, net sales income and average staff numbers. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the Establishment of a New § 5. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. Where an undertaking under § 1, t. 22 of the additional provisions cease to be an undertaking of public interest, it may, once within the first reporting period following the period in which it ceased to be a public-interest undertaking to change its applicable accounting base.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u297	We are voting on paragraphs 2 to 5 on the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: 81, no objection, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u298	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 6. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for § 4. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 7, and shall propose the following version: .................................................... Businesses and groups of undertakings shall determine their category for 2016 in accordance with art. 19 and 21 according to its indicators as at 31 December 2015 According to § 5, there is a proposal of the MP Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 8, with the words "art." The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 9 and shall propose the following wording: ..................................................... Incomplete administrative criminal proceedings until the entry into force of this law are completed in the current order. Under § 7 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to reject § 7 as it is systematically reflected as § 3. According to § 8 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is systematically reflected in a new § 4. The Commission proposes to reject § 8 as it is systematically reflected as a new § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u299	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the division, paragraphs 6, 7, 8 with the relevant new references, § 9, the Commission's proposal to reject § 7 by importer and to reject § 8 by importer, for reasons that they are systematically reflected elsewhere. They voted 93 MPs: 83, against 2, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u300	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create new paragraphs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 10 and 11: ..................................................... (1) The establishment and audit of the financial statements and activity reports for 2015 shall be carried out in accordance with the repealed Accounting Act. (2) The publication of the financial statements and activity reports for 2015 shall be carried out in accordance with that Law. § 11. (1) The large enterprises under this Law shall draw up their annual financial statements for 2016 on the basis of the International Accounting Standards. (2) The provision of art. 34, para. 2 as regards large enterprises, it shall apply from 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u301	We are voting on the proposal for the two new paragraphs - 10 and 11. Vote 96 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u302	A proposal by the National Representative Georgi Kovachev to create new paragraphs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 12, and the words shall be heard. 27, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 26, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 13, with the words "art." 32, para. Article 2 (1) (a) is replaced by the following: 31, para. 1.................................................................................. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 11, which becomes § 14, with the words "art." 30, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 29, para. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 17. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 15, which becomes § 18, with the words "art." The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 15 (2). OJ L 268, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 22, and the words 65, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u303	Anblok, we vote on paragraphs 12 to 22 including, on the Commission's report, respectively, on the paragraphs to the various members, as on the report. Vote 98 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 11. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u304	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 23, and shall propose the following version: ..................................................... The Law on the Public Offering of Securities (prom., SG...) makes the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81, para. 3 sentence second words................................................................................................ 34, para. The following points are inserted 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100 m, para. 3 sentence second words................................................................................................ 34, para. The following points are inserted after 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124, para. 2, p. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 24, the words. 65, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the Under § 22, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 22 which becomes § 25, and offers the following editing: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Commercial Register Act (promise, SG...) in art. 6, para. 3 words.............................................................................. 40, para. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, Under § 23, there is a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 26, and shall propose the following version: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The following amendments and additions are made to the Commercial Law (prom., SG...): "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) c. 6. Finally, it is added: when carrying out an audit is mandatory in the cases envisaged by law or a decision has been taken to carry out an independent financial audit. (b) c. 7. an independent financial audit shall be added after the word 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 245 is finally added when carrying out an audit is mandatory in the cases envisaged by law or a decision has been taken to carry out an independent financial audit. 3. In Art. 25, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 248. 1 is amended as follows: The annual financial statement shall be verified by the statutory auditors appointed by the General Assembly in the cases envisaged by the Law. 4. Art. Paragraph 249. 1 after the words. "When " is added: the annual financial statements of the company are subject to compulsory independent financial audit by law and by law............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 5. Art. 251: (a) in para. The first sentence is amended as follows: "When independent financial audit is mandatory in the cases envisaged by law or when an independent financial audit has been decided, the General Assembly shall adopt the annual financial statement after the audit has been completed and the audit report submitted. The registered auditor shall participate in the meeting of the Supervisory Board, respectively of the Board of Directors, under para. One and two. (b) in para. 4 the words "Supplied and accepted" shall be replaced by the words "Supposed by the General Assembly." There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 27: "The Bible says: In the Act on Independent Financial Audit (promise, SG No. ...) in § 1 of the Additional provision (e.g. 11 is amended as follows: "11." The public interest undertakings are those within the meaning of § 1, point (c). 25 of the Additional Provisions of the Accounting Act. There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In the Public Finance Act (Obn., SG No. ...) in art. 168, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 1, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Under § 24, there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 24, which shall become 29: ........................ 29...................................................... The Act shall enter into force from 1 January 2016, with the exception of Articles 48
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u305	Statements? I won't. We are voting for paragraphs 23 to 29, including in their version of the Commission report. Vote 100 MPs: 98 against 1, abstention 1. The proposals have been adopted, and thus the Law on Accounting of the Second Voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u306	Thank you, colleagues, for your patience and your vote. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-24.u307	Tomorrow's regular meeting, starting time 9:00 p.m. I'm adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
