ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of Parliament, as I announced to the Conference of Presidents on the day yesterday, in relation to the expected at that time, and today the decision on early termination of the term of office of a Member of the National Assembly on the grounds of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that, as point one today, we discuss changes to committees. As there is also a proposal received by the ABB Parliamentary Group for a change to a parliamentary delegation, a common point first to be: Changes to permanent committees and parliamentary delegations. It is related to the election of leadership of the vacant post of the Committee on Health. Voting mode. Vote 159 MPs: 153 against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS AND PARLIAMENT DELEGATIONS. With an inch. No 554-02-19 of 25 February 2015, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 85, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group have submitted a draft decision on a change in the management of the Committee on Health, the Committee on Culture and Media and the composition of the Committee on Foreign Policy. The draft decision is to be submitted for consideration and voting in accordance with the established order. To your attention, specific projects for solutions: Project! DECISION for changes in the management and filling of the composition of the Committee on Health The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova as Vice-President of the Committee on Health. 2. She elected Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova as Chairman of the Committee on Health. 3. He elected Kiril Dobrev Dobrev as Vice-President of the Committee on Health. 4. She elected Vyara Mihailova Tserovska as a member of the Health Committee. According to the distribution, the chairmanship and vice-presidential position is from the quota of GERB. "Mrs Daritkova is proposed for President, in her place Mr. Dobrev, who is a former member of the Commission, becomes Vice-President. The new choice belongs to Mrs. Vyara Cerovska as a member of the Committee on Health. Debates, speeches, are there any opinions from Members of the National Assembly? No. Please vote on the draft decision. Vote 162 MPs: 154 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on changes to the composition of the Committee on Foreign Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Vyara Mihaylova Tserovska as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. 2. He elected Krasimir Petrov Petrov as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. This decision was triggered because of what was already adopted, as Mrs. Tserovska became a member of the Health Commission................................. the post of the Foreign Office, and there we choose Mr. Krassimir Petrov. Voting mode. Vote 153 MPs: 149, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION for changes to the management of the Committee on Culture and Media The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Kiril Dobrev Dobrev as Vice-President of the Committee on Culture and Media. 2. He elected Krasimira Peneva Anastasova as Vice-President of the Committee on Culture and Media. I recall, Mr. Dobrev is now a member of the Health Commission. Voting mode. Vote 150 MPs: for 147, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. With an inch. No 554-02-14 of 19 February 2015 Mr. Miho Mihov, Vice-President of the ABB Parliamentary Group, on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose a draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Project for a Decision itself: Project! DECISION completing the composition of the Committee on Legal Affairs The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Nikiforov takes the place of Mrs. Rositsa Yanakieva. Voting mode. Vote 148 MPs: for 145, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The next proposal by Mr. Miho Mihov as Vice-President of the ABB Parliamentary Group: Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the Commission creeds and human rights The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. The cause and the reason are the same. Voting mode. They voted 146 MPs: 143, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Last Project! DECISION on a change in the composition and management of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Ivan Kostadinov Stankov as a member and head of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones. 2. He elected Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov as a member and head of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly on Froncophonia. Vote 139 MPs: for 136, there is no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we're going to the next point in our weekly program: PROJECT FOR THE ACCEPTANCE OF THE STRATEGY FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF HIGH I recall that this is a continuation of the debate which began on 15 January 2015. Please come in for a procedure, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose extending the time limit for written proposals by two weeks under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments, which was adopted at first reading on 19 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u3	A counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote the proposed extension of proposals between the first and second reading of the specific bill. They voted 135 MPs: 122, against 11, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Are there any MPs who wish to take part in the debate on the draft decision on the adoption of a Higher Education Strategy? Here you are, Mrs. Marinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Many MPs spoke on the subject. For the most part, they focused on problems in the system of higher education. What they have said confirms in practice the analysis in Chapter 2 of the Strategy and the difficulties raised with access to higher education of certain social groups; difficulties with the quality and compatibility of higher education with European higher education systems; lack of a link between higher education and business needs and public institutions; insufficient link between training and research; shortcomings in the current funding model; insufficient opportunities for lifelong learning and others. I cannot help but stress the extreme importance of the Strategy. On the one hand, it outlines the priority areas for the development of higher education, and the second time, sees it as an engine for the development of the economy for the formation of a knowledge-based and technological progress society. The strategy clearly formulated the task of speeding up and completing the process of structural reforms by overcoming the lag on the leading European countries, on the one hand, and, on the other, implementing the strategic transformation of higher education from a complementary, service sphere to grow into an asset-making factor in a European and global plan. An important positive of the Strategy is the task it is putting itself in relation to research, placed as a top priority, but the extremely important angle of how research will be used for economic development. They are currently part of the function of universities, but insufficiently advocated, insufficiently defended. One of the reasons why funding research stands in the background in budgets. And why is the strategy important? A purely pragmatic response is extremely important as a prerequisite for obtaining funding within the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." As has also been said in the report of the Committee on Education and Science, one of the great merit of the Strategy is that it constitutes a successful.... but rare example of how on an important issue for the country can be worked consistently with different governments, and in various configurations of the National Assembly. Preparation based on the preservation of national traditions, the strategy is aimed at inclusion, seeking efficiency and sustainability. It has a detailed plan of action. Seek growth based on continuity and capacity for development, openness of the higher education system to the socio-economic environment. The draft strategy put to our attention today has gone through many discussions with the participation of all partners and, from this point of view, the main plays in it have very broad support. Such support was also witnessed at the meeting of the Committee on Education and Science during the discussion, by the Council of Rectors, lecturers of the academic community, the High Education and Science Syndicate, employers' organizations. I fully share the idea enshrined in the Strategy for the market to define the financing of the higher school as an opportunity for real competition at all levels and an engine for better quality. In this sense, I support the opinion expressed in the Commission by Prof. Anastas Gerdjikov, that the two most important problems of the Law on Higher Education, in the case of the Strategy, the quality of education and the financial mechanism are mutually supported. Having a consistent idea is also offering differentiation of pay according to the quality of education, differentiation according to the results of research, differentiation within higher schools between lecturers and researchers according to the achieved personal results, even differentiation of student scholarships. The strategy takes into account the need to update the curricula, attention is paid to the relationship with business such as interaction and responsibilities, the balance of centralisation and autonomy is sought. Dear colleagues, in the last year the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education has been discussed repeatedly and every time some of the shortcomings have been smoothed out. Disadvantages, but not essential now. Taking into account that this is a long-term document which has an open character and is subject to an update, according to the dynamics of the system and of the socio-economic life, I suggest that we accept the Strategy tabled by the Council of Ministers. In the meantime, in the course of her discussion, we can't help but say that too. A number of remarks have been made in the Committee on Education and Science, and here in this House, which simply needs to be taken into account. I would like to conclude with the assurance given to us by the Deputy Minister. Nikolay Denkov in the Committee on Education and Science that, I quote: the Ministry of Education will take all the necessary steps to specify the Law on Higher Education, the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber, a mechanism for changing funding, which is currently lacking. We very much hope that this will happen in 2015, and we will be watching with attention how the Ministry of Education and Science makes this commitment, as well as everyone else with the action plan, so that the strategy becomes a working document, which I think is our common desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Marinova. - What's the line? I won't. I would like to recall what is the time available to the parliamentary groups: GERB after this speech has 33 minutes; BSP has 11.33 minutes; DPS To recall which MPs have spoken so far in the previous plenary session on 15 February 2015. These are Ms. Mariana Georgieva, Boyka Marinska, Valeri Zablyanov, Ivan Stankov, Milen Mihov and Borislav Velikov. There's a request from Mrs. Dukova and Professor. Bachvarova. I suggest we take turns, but you've already come out, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! I will try to be as brief as possible on two issues and on two arguments. The first is that I could not fail because I took part in an extremely important meeting before the Strategy was adopted, at which we stated the political readiness and support of the political party GERB for this strategic document and it is important to say. My second argument is that my colleague Cornelia Marinova made quite serious arguments. But I can't help but say a few things that need to be said again. The process of discussing and analyzing this Strategy was extremely dynamic and with an extremely good final result, namely a political and academic consensus on a resource for adopting this Strategy. I cannot fail to say that in the numerous speeches made by the various Members of the parliamentary groups, the Strategy and the texts sound a lot of arguments that are from many....... to. but................................................................................ However, there are arguments in its lack of support or at least in its non-acceptance. I would say that one of the most important issues that I have been talking about is I will jump over a lot of things because I am in a hurry, is that the key priorities in the strategy are outlined and the desire to increase the number of graduates and reach 36% for the age between 30 34 years for 2020 is extremely important. I will spare all the arguments that Cornelia Marinova said, and I will say that the problem that was highlighted by this platform was the financing of the Strategy. I don't think there's a statistical document that's 100% perfect. The strategy is the kind of document that will be an open system and will give approaches to the development of the next documents that need to be made. The next moment was the analysis of the strategy's financing. In this sense, I will only briefly recall where the funding for the system will come from. First of all, programme funding from the national budget 2014-2020, funds from the European Structural Funds under Operational Programme I am in a hurry to conclude with the fact that the strategy is a starting point for a new Higher Education Act, a dynamic product because there are no static public policies. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. - What's the line? I won't. Professor Bachvarova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to remind you that the adoption of a Higher Education Strategy is a necessary condition for the country in order to be able to launch Operational Programme The European Commission approved the Programme and I have to say that this is an extremely great achievement that the National Assembly is discussing a Strategy for Higher Education and with its adoption we will take the first steps to implement a more modern, quality higher education and its financing through a European programme. I would like to say a few general words regarding the document presented. In practice, two thirds of the document discussed is systematized differently documents of the European Commission, the World Bank, research by our universities. It contains the correct findings on what higher education is in Bulgaria and where we should go in terms of its quality. What everyone might be interested in is what will be done from now on and how the Strategy will be implemented. Many of the colleagues discussed issues related to proposals for a change in higher education. However, I would like to focus mainly on two issues. The first issue concerns the commitment made by the Strategy to fulfill one of the main objectives of higher education, namely the development of research at universities. It is very modestly said that the universities will cooperate with the representatives of the scientific community. I am under the impression that higher education institutions will work in one scientific area and other scientific structures will have a completely different priority. In this regard, I would like to remind you that, at the beginning of the National Assembly's launch, we were provided with a research development strategy. It is not considered, but it should be considered and the necessary steps should also be taken to become part of the discussions in the National Assembly, because without it we will not have an overall opportunity to create research, collectives that meet the European requirements, respectively infrastructure for their implementation. Again in relation to research in the Strategy it is said that there are also vouses in Bulgaria that have rich scientific activity and others without any scientific activity. This is why the Strategy provides for and describes the higher schools to be divided into two types of. Some will be researched, trained PhD students and receive funds from the state for scientific activity; and others will not have doctoral programs and subsidies for science without preventing them from participating in scientific groups forming in the implementation of certain directions. Such a division exists in almost all countries of the European Union, but I would very much like this to happen in practice, because at this stage, for funding research in higher schools, it is imperative that 10% of the funds go to research. In practice, however, all Vuzes receive not for research but, above all, for research. However, the realization of scientific production and the development of research is related not only to participation in programs and funding of scientific collectives, but also to the construction of appropriate infrastructure, which unfortunately not only in higher schools, but also in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and in the Agricultural Academy is far from what is required for participation in international programmes. The second question I want to put was also raised by colleagues from GERB for the financing of education and science. We have to say that in what we read as a document, the Higher Education Strategy is budgetaryally neutral, that is, there are absolutely no quantitative indicators. We are not talking here to determine the exact parameters for support and development, but still to adhere to some commitment that the funds provided for the development of higher education, including science, will be an ascending trend, and not, as happened in Budget 2015. To conclude, I would like to say that we will support the Strategy as a necessary document for further development of Bulgarian higher education and with credit that the next necessary steps, i.e. the changes in the Law on Higher Education, in the Law on the Development of the Academic Board, should be implemented within a short period of time, because they will be the obstacle to the implementation and of the Strategy, which as a document creates prerequisites for the first time to create rules and really quality higher education institutions to receive better funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u9	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I can't see. Professor Stanilov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have read the Strategy carefully, and I think it has a fundamental appearance, although it does not answer a few questions that are extremely relevant to our society. Firstly, I could not read in the text and in the context of how we will stop the leaking of the most quality brains from Bulgaria, which go to foreign schools and foreign economies and never return. In the last year of the management of GERB last term I had asked for and provided statistics in the last ten years how many of the children who won the big prizes from competitions in biology, physics, chemistry and mathematics remain to study in higher education institutions in Bulgaria, how many go abroad and how many of those who complete higher education abroad return? And you know what happened? Nothing, no one comes back, everyone stays there! In other words, the most quality that brings forth Bulgaria, which creates the Bulgarian as biology, as higher matter, goes outside. So to speak, this is a blood tax that neoliberalism takes from the Bulgarians. The strategy does not mention such a thing, but it should be made clear what material we are working with and what our future is in this sense. There can be no strategy that guarantees in no way future growing funding. This is always spoken and expressed such intentions, here too. However, there is no hope that such a thing will be fulfilled. I remember the Lisbon Strategy, according to which the European Union should have reached the United States and Japan in 2015 technologically. That didn't happen. I asked a question to a representative of the European Union, for example, to Mr Barroso's scientific advisor, who was here, why the Strategy was not implemented. She couldn't answer me. He just said I don't know, no one did it and no one asked for an account. Apropo, I'll ask you this. Is there anyone in this room who can come out and say from over 2,000 strategies in Bulgaria that have been adopted since 1990, i.e. 25 years, which of them has been implemented? None of you are getting out because you don't have one! All the strategies that have been adopted so far have been left at the mercy of fate and have not been implemented. This Strategy, which we will now vote on, I will vote for it because it meets all the criteria that I would require from such a document, but I do not see the point, since it does not meet the philosophy with which our society is governed. According to her, we need to have an economy that has high levels of development of industry and high technology. In all the governments that have ruled Bulgaria over the past 25 years, there is no government with such a programme. There is no government that has such an emphasis in its activities and that comes first. So how do we fit the strategy into the policies and philosophy that govern the country?! This is just another trivial document that the European Union requires us to make. We've done it, now we're gonna vote it out, and it's not gonna work out. In two or three years, I'm going to go out on the stand, ask the question what was done on this Strategy and the answer will be the same as it was on the decade for Roma inclusion when we voted it in this House. Then I said it would never be fulfilled. When Dr. Moskov said a few words about Gypsy crime in Bulgaria a while ago, someone in the room thought to ask about the decade of Roma inclusion, which was worth 1 billion, but it didn't do anything. That will be the fate of this Strategy as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u11	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. - What's the line? I won't. For speech Prof. Willy Lilkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At the beginning, I would like to say that the strategy is good and our parliamentary group will support it. However, I would consider a flaw in the Strategy, which is expressed in the following. In it you will not meet the word "sports." It is unacceptable for a strategy for the development of higher education not to include the word "sports', sports policies and activities in general dedicated to sport. If you read the sentence that indicates the vision of higher schools and higher education, the following is said: The transformation of higher schools into scientific and spiritual centers with a general cultural mission. I would add here and recommend to the people who will develop this strategy and develop action plans to include the word "sports" because that is where really sport can develop and be realized in its purest form. This is a recommendation that I will see whether it will be implemented in the following documents that will accompany this strategy in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u13	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Metodi Andreyev for speaking, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u14	Mr Presidential, honourable Members of Parliament, the Higher Education Strategy that we are discussing is extremely important for the development of science and education in our country for decades to come, but it is particularly important to know that any strategy can be discussed and developed only in one case if the state develops a strategy to finance the development of science and higher education. Because with a strategy without secure funding, a strategy that we have seen so far, the state always sweeping the education under the carpet, releasing relatively low and small funds for the development of science and education, we will not achieve the effect that this Strategy puts on itself. I'm going to give you an example right now with a higher education facility where I work. There was a program for the development of the academic staff. It was a very nice program. It stimulated the book development of the academic staff, but we need to know that we live in a market economy. After all, what a person has accomplished is measured and by what payment he receives. Because right now we have to admit that the Bulgarian professors receive about 1000 BGN 1200. salary. In front of one such person there are the following two possible ways: he will remain true to science and deal directly with the things he is entrusted to him to teach students, to train PhD students, to participate in research programs, but for this he gets nothing more than BGN 1200. The other option is, as most of my colleagues do, they begin to engage in activities that meet their expertise and their scientific level, but they are not related to their direct activities as lecturers because they have to endure their family. So the main point in each strategy is financial security and differentiation in the academic staff itself. Because if a professor is teaching a PhD student this is his duty; if he is teaching two PhD students this is already better; if he is teaching three PhD students? even better; if he is participating in research tasks and developing the science in which he is a specialist, it is best. That's why this guy has to get bonuses, he has to get credit. The idea is in this strategy to think about what is at the heart of the market economy about competition. A person who develops his expertise as a lecturer, as a scientist in the higher education institution, should be able to receive a higher salary than this colleague of his in the same position, but who does not deal directly with his teaching activities. That is, we in the higher education institution must create an internal differentiation of the salary of the academic staff. Only in this way can we increase the level of education itself. Because, when a person is financially provided, he treats himself differently, he treats his profession strategically, not just to appear there, to read his lecture and go to his private company to earn some extra credit for the maintenance of his family. This is the truth about most of the Bulgarian higher education institutions. There's something else we need to know. At the moment, the country is providing some extremely small funds in a research fund. Last year, I think it was 15 million. Look, the development of science, especially scientific and applied disciplines, is extremely important for the technological development of the state and for our education. This fund has become the subject of very interesting and not so strong interests by companies that have passed past the fact that these were related to research. You know how the work was taken by a habilitated lecturer at a company and the company started working and taking funds from this fund. Not to mention that a university, known recently for its violent development, has won 3 programmes in the last few years. This can't be happening. There can be no major universities such as the Technical University, such as the University of Architecture, Construction and Geodesy, such as the Sofia University to have less of a head professor earned programs than this university. Looks like something needs to be corrected here. It needs to be adjusted. The other thing that is very important is the financing of institutions and higher education institutions. I have a feeling that the funding of some higher education institutions has been taken out in front of parentheses. We basically know what the budget line is for higher schools, but why did it happen that the Library University again has a 20% increase in its budget? That's weird! Regarding the way Bulgaria's senior staff from our higher education are created. It is known that we have a tradition in creating unemployed graduates. The need of the state, of the business, of the sectors of senior staff must be met. There must be much better synchronization between what higher schools produce and the needs of the state by such specialists. Because otherwise it's happening now so there's too many public and government contracts filling up with some students and then these people have nowhere to work. This is an extremely big problem of our modern higher education. And most importantly, I think we should definitely break up with the socialist form of work of higher schools. The model of our higher education is currently on a cone aimed at the top down. In other words, we find it very difficult to allow students in higher schools through complex entrance exams, but once an entered student he cannot fail. We have to reverse this cone. The admission should be facilitated, but the completion of the student should be the result of his daily work, the introduction of the so-called accreditation system should be done as soon as possible. That is, for every activity of the student in which he assists his development, he gets a bonus. For me, these important problems must be borne in mind. And most importantly, finally, once again, the state must look strategically at the financing of higher schools and stop creating new higher schools. Because both those who exist and they have serious budgetary difficulties. True, this thing does not meet market conditions, but ultimately we have to bet on the certainty, we have to bet on what has been tested over the years and there to focus our intellectual and financial efforts in order to make this strategy a fact and it to help the development of Bulgarian higher education. Otherwise, I don't agree very much with Professor. Stanilov that we will not implement this Strategy. We must believe that in Bulgaria there can be quality and good higher education. And when we believe that this will happen, it will happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u15	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. - What's the line? Mr. Notev wants to replicate Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I'm taking a line for Mr. Andreev's statement. I listened carefully to the problems he saw in education to conclude that the problems outlined by Prof. Stanilov, somehow they do not deserve attention, or should not be shared in connection with the lack of faith that something will happen as a result of the strategy. I have also listened to the speakers of the academic community so far. I assure you that if problems are sought in the fact that the lack of sufficient funding does not provide the work of the academic community, and not in the quality of people entering the educational institutions at the entrance, i.e. as a product as a result of secondary education, primary education and already back to the exit, there is no way to solve the problem. We're really going to run into this pyramid you're talking about, Mr. Andreev. We can't get this problem from the legs, not from the head. He's very right, Professor. Stanilov with these strong and sick words about the blood tax, which we pay with this leak of young people, capable, trained, well-trained and found their field somewhere out there without being able to return to Bulgaria and give their due, but, anyway, the problems will not be solved with this Strategy. In fact, this argument or this line I take with the idea that it would rather lead us to really remember this debate and in time to give a clear and accurate statement whether something on the Strategy has been done. Pointless and pointless strategies really are a scourge for the way we try to manage certain spheres of public life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u17	Thank you, Mr. Notev. Second line? I won't. Before I give Mr. Andreev the opportunity, if he wishes to use the duplicate, you do not want me to announce the next speech, and it is to Mr. Rosen Petrov, honourable Members, please welcome the parliamentary delegation from the Parliament of Friendly Georgia, led by Parliament Speaker Mr. David Usupashvili. [[Deputies rise, applause.]] Our friends are here for an official two-day visit. Yesterday we had a meeting with the delegation. Today they have meetings with the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Let's wish us a fruitful work and a pleasant time in friendly Bulgaria! The word is Mr. Rosen Petrov, after him Mr. Boris Stanimirov, after him Mr. Bozhinov. These are the Members of the National Assembly who have signed up so far. We're listening, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! A higher education strategy is really nice to have, although in recent months many strategies have emerged. I feel like we're at war. I think it's better to have laws appear for them. It's a good strategy. It's nice to pay attention to higher education, but in it I didn't see a word about private VUMs. What do we do with them? It's the best training there, there's nothing to lie about. At the consultations with President Rosen Plevneliev, he asked the question: what quality of education do we expect to receive with 50 thousand candidate students this year? And that's right, Mr. Andreev: what kind of people are going to get into the VUMs, with what grades? On two thirds, you're ready. We will support the Strategy, because we see that such is the spirit in the National Assembly to have consent, but if there is an update, I hope we will hold on to these things. First of all, it is to pay attention to private VUMs. What's worse about them? In the Preschool and School Age Act, we don't share children by the sign of where they study. Why do we share them in the Higher Education Strategy? Furthermore, the monopoly position of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. Excuse me, but this agency has created so many VUMs that one person will soon have two, VUMs who are unable to perform quality training for students. I also agree with professor. Stanilov that somehow we became donors of far more developed economies than us. We finance, of course, with European money, they then make it out in Europe. We are in favour of these recommendations. And we hope that the Strategy will be updated in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u19	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. - What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Boris Stanimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u20	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, dear guests! I believe it makes sense from the Higher Education Strategy. It is not general talk, namely a strategic document which, with responsible attitude from all of us, in the coming years can produce a good result. However, there are two important things that I personally did not see in the Strategy or at least are not mentioned, and I think they are important as problems. One is in the accreditation of universities as a requirement for access to the university, students and scientists to electronic databases of scientific publications in their field. This is something that is very lame at the Bulgarian universities at the moment. The opportunity for students to prepare or to do research, using the contemporary publications and articles that are available in the international electronic catalogues. Even these universities, which have some subscriptions to some databases, most often do not keep them up to date. Students are forced to read from the textbook written by the teacher or from some older publications. If we want quality of scientific activity, of scientific production, the mandatory subscription to world catalogues should be a requirement for accreditation, especially in natural and accurate sciences. And the other topic is again in the field of software and it concerns the very ill and discussed in society the issue of plagiarism. It is a global practice for universities to have a computer system in which every scientific publication is poured before it comes out on paper and the system to check it for plagiarism. This ensures the quality of scientific production and that the scientific product at the output will be truly qualitative, and it will not simply be a simulation of scientific activity. I believe that this requirement for software to combat plagiarism should also be laid down in the Strategy and in the accreditation standards, and it will also ensure a high quality of higher education and scientific production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u21	Any lines to Mr. Stanimirov? Professor Bachvarova has a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Stanimirov, by agreeing with the majority of your findings, I would like to tell you that we are again referring to the question of what funds are being allocated, because budget 2015 also contains a modest 8 million. BGN to support research in universities. They are given to all universities regardless of whether they are engaged in scientific activity or not, and this most often goes to publishing and not to such research that we are talking about. Therefore, our claim is that in the Strategy there should also be quantitative indicators that show the development of support in the field of research and what you are talking about, the possibility of comparing different researches and not getting this plagiarism, and it is already said that including a doctoral thesis can be written within a few months, thanks to foreign information sources that someone has reached in some form. Therefore, our claim is that the Strategy must have financial measurers and hence the commitment of the state is by 2020 in accordance with the programme approved by the European Commission to enable universities to accumulate knowledge, experience and skills in strategic research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u23	Thank you. Is there another line? I won't. A hole? No. Mr. Bojinov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We are about to vote on a strategic document. When strategies are adopted, hopes and expectations are formed that actions will be carried out and results will be obtained. This strategy was prepared by a previous government, developed by the caretaker government, is probably also genuinely supported by the current government. It will also be supported by our parliamentary group. The hidden and obvious motives are that without this Strategy we will not have access to European funds, to the absorption of money. Before me, MPs were talking about funding. I will put the question this way: if we give the engineering vouses, for example, as much money as they want, if this Strategy allows them to absorb the maximum of the European money that we are given, will we have good engineering education after all? My answer is quite clear today from this tribune. And not just because of the formalism that accompany our efforts. I remember that there was a MP Panev here who became famous for the Law on Lustration. We applied it. There was a minister who couldn't become a doctor of science. Make the Academic Development Act your goal. The result of the first law was that those who interfered with the ambitious and the second law allowed all ambitious professors of their vouses, not in accordance with the criteria, were removed. They're satisfied. Every day professors and docs are born. Thousands have become, however, the level of education is not available. I'm a graduate and I was a professor at the Higher Chemistry Institute. When I graduated, I had the confidence that I was an engineer. I claim that the vast majority of my university students today have no reason to believe they're engineers. I will return to my thesis that whatever we do for good funding will not have the result, because the people who enter these universities have neither the motivation nor the preparation to become engineering and technical personnel. Another European country 15 years ago, when looking for its strategic development, this is Poland, when it wanted to develop with machine building, metallurgy, chemistry and other industrial directions, explores the reason for the decline in its engineering education. And do you know where you found the reason? Not in money or not in whether or not the teachers were communists or not, whether they measured to become professors or not, but found them in the psychological barrier. Fit and capable of becoming engineering footage young people enter the voucher. The Barrier found the Poles in unpreparedness and fear...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u25	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u26	Time's up?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u27	Yes, Mr. Bojinov. Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u28	I'm graduating. They found that if they didn't step up the mathematics training in secondary school...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u29	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u30	Time. My time will be over...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u31	Don't engage in dialogue, because it's over even more.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u32	I'm graduating. They introduced a mandatory mathematics degree to overcome the psychological barrier in young people. When this happened over the years, people were already entering who were not afraid of mathematics and did not want to become graduates. Today Poland has such an engineering education. There's metallurgy, there's machinery. We will have a tool to absorb European money, but we will not have real results after this Strategy. [[Private applause from BSP LB]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u33	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Are there any lines? I won't. There's a word for it, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honored guests! Look around you and ask yourself the question today we are discussing a strategy for higher education development. It is shameful, colleagues, it is shameful when discussing the future of the nation and its development, that the hall be half empty!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u35	And the Minister is gone!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u36	Yes, and the Minister is gone. As you know, there's a screaming party, look, there's a guy standing out of it. There are young people on the balcony. Let us be seen with the cutters, because we cannot discuss a higher education strategy in a half-empty hall that shows complete disinterest! But what is it about? When we talk about strategy, we must first tell ourselves the truth as it is at the time, what we produce as graduates, where these young people go. We have not touched the moment, honourable Members, that the relationship between science and business has been broken in the first place. First of all! According to recent studies, honourable Members, 68% of graduates up to 30 years practically work in private business. Someone from here will say, "Yeah, that's great." However, 24% of these young graduates do not work at all, only 7% have their own business, and notice.. 42% of the graduates do not work in their specialty. Here the big question arises.. in fact how are these people trained, since 42% are not able to exercise their profession at all?! What did their parents spend their money on, and what is the end result?! Look, educational institutions have been working in competitive conditions for a long time. However, honourable Members, one strategy is not enough to clear the administrative handicaps. With administrative disabilities, we do not allow our Bulgarian children who have completed their secondary education, even in the European Union, to be able in general order to apply to our higher education institutions. Shame! And why is that? Because no one makes it a goal that the administrative system practically stops them. Instead of attracting these children of ours here to our higher education institutions, we're sending them somewhere else. I can't help but notice your rights, Professor Bachvarova, 8 million. lv. research is a funny low amount. However, there is also a broken connection here, because a large part of science actually serves narrow corporate interests, and not Bulgarian, which is not good. Draining potential from Bulgaria is one of the scariest problems and we should not close our eyes to it. On this thing, the Bulgarian people say to him the brain drain, and we stand, we watch. It's nice that after I made a remark, the hall started filling up a little bit. I would like to draw attention to you again, colleagues, we must not close our eyes to this extremely dangerous process of leakage of potential from the Bulgarian state. It is not far away when we will have a severe need for highly qualified personnel for our economy. This moment must be laid down in this Strategy.. its solution, the removal of this problem. The strategy does have many gaps, and it is not very objective that we must support it unconditionally, because we must get the opportunity to absorb European funds. However, the absorption, and very often the embezzlement of European funds, in recent times does not have any effect in the Bulgarian education, neither in the Bulgarian economy, nor in terms of business development in Bulgaria. The patriotic front, even if it supports this strategy, supports it with its special reserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u37	First line, Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u38	Madam President, honourable Members! After the last speech I made, I was convinced that I would support the Strategy. I will support it so that there can be no speakers, such as the spokesperson before you, who addresses his opponents in the Bulgarian Parliament with qualifications that do not suit relations between civilized people, even less educated, even less lecturers, as I know it includes the professional biography of the speaker. I am not inclined to accept these qualifications, both for the overall work, policy and attitude to the Strategy which was stated by the parliamentary group and which was probably referring to the speaker. Next, Madam President, I would like to remind you of a proposal by the leader of the Party of Ataka to you for organizing the courses of speech. I have reason to say the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u39	Second line? Professor. Gorgeous.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u40	Mrs. President, my reply to my colleague Bajraktarov is related to this, perhaps he does not know that Minister Bajraktarov. Tanev was here and he'll come back. A preliminary commitment with the NSI and signing an important document forced him to leave for a while. I want to protect our minister. He does not underestimate this issue, especially that he is from the field of higher education. Professor. Denkov is here also a very competent person who carries out one continuity from the caretaker government. At least in this part, I'd say it's not very right to attack the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u41	Third line? I won't. The hole is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Notev, I have not allowed myself to insult anyone and make personal qualifications to anyone. It's a very good idea, but I don't know how you're gonna solve the dialect problem. So don't try to play with a theme that is definitely not clear to you, and the facts are available I didn't know that was the case with the Minister, but you would agree that when the strategy is discussed, it should be at the forefront, because it is the more important document. I hope you'll agree with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u43	Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? I won't. The discussion is closed. Let's move on to the vote. In the plenary session on 15 January in his speech, the People's Representative Assoc. Milen Mihov proposed an editorial supplement. I'll remind the MPs. In Section VI of the Strategy, named: It proposes to add t. 4. So far there are 6.1. 1, 2 and 3, it offers t. 4 and make it sound as follows: "Improvement on a legal basis and an active policy for attracting students from Bulgarians living in the European Union and Bulgarian communities in third countries." I put to the vote this editorial supplement, which has been commented in the Commission, has also been supported by the Ministry. In plenary was supported by Mr. Zablyanov at the previous plenary session. Voting mode. Vote 115 MPs: 113 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I now put to the vote the following draft decision, which has been presented, but due to the remoteness of time, I will remind the Members of the National Assembly once again. Project! DECISION adopting a Higher Education Development Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2020 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 9, para. 2, p. 3 of the Law on Higher Education HAS DECIDED Adopts the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2020 I vote on the draft decision, together with the decision we have just adopted to supplement the content of the Strategy itself. Vote 124 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ENERGY. Who's gonna report it? Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u44	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making a procedural proposal for admission...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u45	And what's the use of those admitted to this room, Mr. Dobrev?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u46	Good question, Madam President. This is parliamentary practice and imposes my proposal: Miroslava Hristova
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u47	Loss of working day at the relevant office or office. I shall allow the motion for guests to be voted on in this Chamber. Vote 96 MPs: 82 against 9, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u48	The Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act No 402-01-3, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 7 November 2014, adopted on the first vote on 15 January 2015. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u49	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the importer for the name of the Law. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u50	Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov, Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 2 the following amendments and 1. A new t. is created. 21: ..21. issue, together with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy, a regulation on reducing the burden associated with the cost of energy from renewable sources under the Guidelines on State aid for environmental protection and energy for the period 2014-2020. (OJ C 200/1 of 28 June 2014)) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. 2. Previously on "T." 21 is equal to 21 is equal to 21 is equal to 21 is equal to 21 is equal to 21
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u51	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to declare our intention not to support the proposed amendment to this article. In essence, colleagues, it is about changing the current model and the so-called obligation to society in the current practice to take over according to how much energy it consumes will be envisaged to make a relief for large industrial consumers. We cannot accept such an approach without being aware of what the effect of this decision will be, without someone making the necessary financial estimates, what will be the benefit of the business that we will stimulate with this, and most importantly for us the energy model is such that these savings, which we will save to large industrial consumers of electricity, must be scattered to other consumers. Note that this means domestic consumers. Without knowing what the changes will be and what the impact on the price will be, we cannot vote in favour of this text, all the more so that negotiations are under way at the moment on official information from the Ministry of Energy and on the negotiation with the US power plants, market liberalisation is expected at the end of the year, all measures that will have a direct impact on the market. It seems to me that without these estimates there is no way to support this text anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u53	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u54	Dear colleagues, this is one of the potential scandalous texts of this law and I very much insist that the Minister of Energy say her personal opinion about it. I'll tell you a little bit of the story. This fee is due to society, which is about 19 BGN. at a megawatt hour, is paid by every Bulgarian citizen and by every Bulgarian enterprise.. small, medium, large, no matter what, we all pay the same fee as we all pay 20% VAT. Several years ago, the so-called large consumers in Bulgaria. These are mainly metallurgical and chemical enterprises decide that this fee is too high for them. They propose to put a ceiling by putting it into the law, that is, we pay 19 leva. of megawatt, but not more than 1 million, for example. lv. per year. The amount that the electricity system operator collects from this charge is around 400 million. lv. Each year, and about 100 million of them. come from these big businesses. Initial estimates of loss showed that if a ceiling was placed in the way they imagined it, the loss for the ESO would be about 40 million. lv. That 40 million. lv. must be scattered and compensated by the Bulgarian families. You have about 3 million families of household users, one lev per month is 3 million. lv. 12 months is 36 million. There they are! Forty million compensated for 36. Now we come to the big question: should Bulgarian domestic consumers compensate for the reluctance of large consumers to pay equally with all others, absolutely fair? They will, of course, come up with the thesis from their point of view, probably rights that they are great employers, that they are energy-efficient, that they are big consumers and there must be some relief for them. And there must be! Only for a Bulgarian pensioner who has a minimum pension of BGN 156. this one lev matters, and in Bulgaria the pensioners who are on minimum pension are 300 and several thousand. They're not just a dollar that came at the end of his account. We raised his pension by two levs and fifty pennies at the end of last year, and now we're gonna get him a lev here, tomorrow we're gonna get him a lev from another place. There goes that argument! Then there was a second idea... will not compensate for the domestic consumers, will compensate for the medium and small companies. Okay, we wanted to develop small and medium-sized companies, we wanted to develop the family business, we wanted this potential to develop it so they could become big, too. What are they guilty of not being big energy consumers so they can not have this preference but only have it for the big ones? There was no answer to that question. Therefore, Madam Minister, what appears now as a text is not the ceiling we are talking about. As they were scared by this discussion, they inserted a text that is very tied up and we delegate the right of the Minister of Energy, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economy to propose measures to compensate these companies. We delegate the right to corrupt them, that's what we're doing! What is your guarantee tomorrow which company will go to which minister, what preference will ask for, for which sector, how much this will cost and who will compensate it? None! Apart from the fact that the European Commission will not allow it, because this is potential State aid. Is that how it's done in law? That is why I suggest that this article should not be voted on, and if a specific text is tabled, with specific ceilings or reliefs for large firms, then it should be very clear who compensates for this thing, because we do not agree to be compensated either by domestic consumers or by small and medium-sized companies, which we actually want to become large firms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u55	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u56	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kadiev, I do not see in the proposed text arguments for what you are saying. The proposed text concerns the competence of the Minister. In this case, the proposed text is assigned to three ministers to draw up such a legislative document. What will be the regulatory document, what will be the regulatory regime regarding this fee, does not follow from this text. I'm surprised at the interpretation you've made. I will also use this case to remind you of the rule of art. 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u57	Second line, Mr. Nikolov, would you like to use it? You'll have a statement. A hole, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u58	Dear Mr. Kirilov, with this text we delegate the right of three ministers to propose compensation measures. It is like adopting a text in the VAT Act, by which we delegate the right of the Minister of Finance to offer reduced VAT fees for certain goods at his discretion. It's exactly the same thing, one to one. How much is it gonna cost? Who's gonna make up for it? We're talking $3 billion. lv. NEK's obligations, and now suddenly we're making an offer that will bring down 30 million, 10 million or 50 million, no matter how much. These things are governed by law, they are not delegated to ministers. I'm telling you again, this text is going to drop anyway. [[Reply of National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] The European Commission will not approve it, because this is state aid parexélans. There is absolutely no point in this text. There is no point in this practice that you introduce ministers to decide by themselves who to compensate and by how much. Tomorrow someone will ask, once again I tell you, every single minister, either of the finance, to compensate for certain goods at a reduced VAT rate, or the Minister of Economy to compensate for a reduced corporate tax rate for enterprises that are important to him. Think of something else, figure out some criteria that are right. What do you mean by a large energy consumer? If the Kremikovtsi were alive today, would he be the biggest consumer, would we give him this preference? Why is it very energy efficient?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u59	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u60	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u61	Dear Madam President, I ask that you apply art. 143 of the Rules of Organisation and the activities of the National Assembly and any who speak of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u62	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. That's what Mr. Kirilov called for. [[Reply of National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] There's no way I can keep track, I just don't have any information about a conflict of interest or a conflict of interest. But I ask the Members of the National Assembly to comply with the Rules of Procedure. It's our duty, colleagues. Mr. Nikolov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, honored guests! Firstly, I do not agree that we are proposing a text that allows him to corrupt the minister. If we think this way, there is no point in having ministers and everything being decided by the National Assembly so that we do not corrupt them because you have budgets, you make very important decisions. We can't assume we always think we're corrupting someone with some text. I don't think that's consistent. Regarding the predictability that we are putting into this § 1 and which is missing at the moment, in order for large consumers or so-called large industrial consumers to make their forecasts in relation to the cost of their production and in relation to their production, I think it is a good solution. There is such a solution in Germany, there is in Austria, there are in many countries in the European Union. So we're not the first to do it. You know that in 2013 it has been announced that we have already met our goals, which we have adopted before the European Union, to reach the level of renewable sources by 2020, that is, we have fulfilled them early. If we put at the moment such a solution in relation to predictability, from now on not to increase this fee to society, in this case industrial consumers will be able to make their forecasts. You know that there are large enterprises that wanted to invest in Bulgaria, but did not invest in Bulgaria, but elsewhere, precisely because of this unpredictableness, precisely because in recent years this fee has been growing quite rapidly and rapidly. They did not know the extent to which they could reach and could not make their predictions. They didn't just invest, of course, but some businesses moved out of Bulgaria. We're talking about reindustrialization, we're talking about promoting business. That's one of the measures. I think that if the limit is set at the moment, i.e. not to redistribute the current fee, but to set a limit at which the fee does not increase, and given the fact that there will be no new renewable sources based on the further proposals, you will see in this law, I think that this will be the balance that will be found so that neither ordinary consumers can bear this burden, but large industrial electricity consumers will also do their analysis, their predictability and be able to invest in Bulgaria. I think this is a good decision that we need to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u64	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u65	Dear colleagues, because I am tired of people exercising on my back, I am referring to my colleague Bajraktarov from yesterday, I declare a conflict of interest because of the fact that my wife is a trader of electricity, absolutely legitimate, licensed, all the time under the eye of all sorts of control bodies. If there are any attacks on her and any of her transgressions, she's responsible, and so am I politically. But now I want to read to you, I didn't mean to, but I'm going to do it specifically for you, to read you correspondence between CRIB and the Association of Energy Consumers, to see how I, you see, in your opinion, am in conflict of interest. I am reading an e-mail sent by Mr. Delisipov, if I am not mistaken, Chairman of the Association of Energy Consumers: The clients of the Energy company to seek the difference of the increase in the price of the debts of the society and the loss of benefits. Kiril Domuschiev, Chairman of KRIB: I propose that KRIB and KKK this is the one of the energy consumers to come up with a strong declaration against Kadiev and his populisms. Urgent! To Delyan Dobrev, Minister of Economy, Energy, BSP and so on. There's your conflict of interest! If I wanted to serve them, would I be getting into this thing today? The only thing I would agree with in this text and I have said it to Delyan Dobrev is if we put a ceiling equal to today's consumption of these enterprises. So if they hire more people, develop production, produce more, let them have some relief in the future. But in order not to lose in the current state, so that we do not burden households, medium and small businesses with the consumption they are doing, to pay for what is at the moment. The delegation you make in this text has nothing to do with this idea. In this text you actually give an open check [[the President signals that time has run out]] to three ministers to do what they want.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u66	Thank you. We understand your point, Mr. Kadyev. Second line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Nikolov, nothing bad will stimulate Bulgarian producers, but think of another way and another approach. I can offer you to join a number of legislative initiatives that we have taken in this direction, but you have not yet supported them. The proposed changes, I regret to say, look lobbyist and in the interest of several designated large industrial consumers of electricity. Secondly, Germany itself, which you are setting for example, is already reviewing its model. Since I listened to a lot of statistics in the Commission, I took the liberty of consulting Eurostat on the price of electricity. The Republic of Bulgaria has the lowest price of electricity for domestic consumers and respectively the lowest price for industrial consumers. I can give it to you, it's official Eurostat statistics. The argument that competitively we are not comparable, especially with neighbouring countries, is currently failing. There are many ways and reasons why an investment will not happen. Therefore, my request to importers is to withdraw their text so that the National Assembly does not fall into a situation where it appears that we are serving large industrial consumers at the expense of the price and the burden that we will transfer to ordinary consumers. Colleagues, unfortunately, according to statistics in Bulgaria 60% of them fall into the category of energy poor. It is not fair, whether with a little, as you claim, to transfer to each of them the burden that will be compensated by large industrial consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u68	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Is there a third line? I won't. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, yes, I am familiar with this statistics, but it does not express the actual relationship between electricity producers or traders, for example in Germany, and consumers. There are long-term contracts and auctions. Statistics do not reflect these auctions. I can show you a diagram, unfortunately not in me, from which you can see that for large consumers because of the fact that they buy a large amount of electricity, and secondly, they have long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity, prices are even lower than the Bulgarian ones. Again: the problem is not the price of electricity they buy. The problem is predictability. We do not want to reduce the current price at the moment. We want them to know in the long term or in the medium term that the price on the basis of this allowance will not be raised. I say again: renewable energy sources at the end of 2013 in Bulgaria have been implemented. This is a letter from the Energy Minister at the end of 2013. It is assumed that if we do not change the Law by 2020, this allowance will not increase. If it is fixed, here is the medium-term plan in which consumers will know that this will not happen and this allowance will not change by 2020. This is one of the options in which it is predictable, i.e. they will be able to make estimates and invest in Bulgaria. I think that's a good offer. Regarding the other, whether this text is exactly in this paragraph or not, I can say that there are a lot of countries in which the laws are of 20 texts and everything is decided by sub-normative acts. Let us allow the Minister on the basis of analyses and the pronunciation of experts to make these sub-normative acts. They'll sort it out. I think this paragraph by 2020 will change nothing for small consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u70	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm doing a procedure in the manner of conduct, it's not about you, it's about the chairman before you. How come you didn't interrupt the BSP colleague because I don't see what his line was to Mr. Nikolov's statement just now? He made a de facto replica of the spokesperson before him Bajraktarov regarding his conflict of interest because his wife has companies related to energy and sells electricity. Where is the morale of this fellow Member to constantly manifest himself from the stand when we talk about energy and to say that these are his wife's companies? Well, where do you guys go?! I think at this very moment you need to sit down and keep quiet, because you have a direct interest and when commenting on this Law you need to speak less. Your declaration of 14 million shares in companies related to the sale of electricity says a lot of things. This is not what ordinary people who are not in the National Assembly do, but what you are doing because you have been in this National Assembly for many years. [[General applause from GERB.]] I call on the President of the National Assembly to monitor what the debate is, who is doing what lines and in what cases he is doing lines. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u72	The existence of a conflict of interest is no reason to refuse the word of a Member of the National Assembly. It is, however, a question of morality when discussing a bill, whether or not colleagues with conflict of interest should be key speakers on it. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] He recognized himself by the declaration, you quoted what he declared.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u73	First of all, there's no such declaration. Mr. Nikolov, when you go to bee conventions, we feel better in the entire parliament than the nonsense you speak here. [[Reply from the MP Vladislav Nikolov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u74	Mr. Kadyev, your note is inappropriate. I think you could have spoken more intelligently. [[Reply from the MP Vladislav Nikolov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u75	My conflict of interest is actually that these companies buy from my wife. I'm supposed to serve them, and instead I'm going against them! Do you know why? Do you know why they write these letters? They write because they have a lobbyist interest in getting this text through. This thing will be transferred. Okay, I said, I agree to the ceiling at the current level so there won't be any losses. Let there be such compensation in the future, let there be the stability we are talking about. And the revenues that are being collected should be collected now, not transferred to the future.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u76	But you're speaking to the point, Mr. Kadyev. You did that with Mr. Boychev's second speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u77	Well, because there's a guy coming out who tells me how I'm in conflict of interest. My conflict of interest is not in this text of the Law. My conflict of interest is the assumption that my wife is dealing with this thing. All right, Delyan Dobrev's father has a pellets plant. Is he in conflict of interest or not?! [[Noise and lines.]] For example, are half of you who are doctors and are in the Health Commission in conflict of interest or not? What about the others who are Pakistani and are on the Transport Commission, are they in conflict of interest or not?! What are we doing?! So we're all not allowed to talk, are we?! And he's gonna come out here and talk to me about $14 million! What have you been reading, mate?! Where did you see it? In which declaration did you see 14 million?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u78	I'm asking you on the sidelines to find out who read what. Let's get back to the debate. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u79	Can't you go to a beekeeper's Congress and sit there forever?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u80	You're out of line! Personal explanation? I want a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u81	Please, please, colleagues! I can't give a personal explanation about a procedure in the manner of conduct. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, take it easy!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u82	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u83	There's no personal explanation, Mr. Nikolov. On the occasion of a procedure in the manner of conduct, you have received a personal explanation from Mr. Kadiev. Now the word for speech has Mr. Delyan Dobrev. [[Executing noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u84	Honourable Members, Madam President! I suggest we return the debate to his professional plane.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u85	And I call for it, Mr. Dobrev. I hope with your statement we can get the debate back there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u86	I'll try. The proposal is based on the new European policy to re-evaluate the risks of the excessive burden of the package "Climate....................................... on industrial activity..................................................... What does that mean? All countries throughout the European Union are worried that the Union's green energy commitments are an adverse factor in the competitiveness of businesses. Simply put, the green energy that industrial consumers in Europe pay is so high because of the commitments that we have all made that these businesses are starting to shut down and the same companies are opening up businesses outside the European Union. This is a European policy made in most countries in the European Union. The text we have proposed today is the Minister of Energy together with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy to explore the possibilities to limit this risk to Bulgarian enterprises. Note the European Commission, together with it to come up with a mechanism to preserve jobs in Bulgaria. You slid along a plane for ordinary families who were going to pay for this expense. Look, if this problem escalates in Bulgaria, it will turn out that there will be no jobs and salaries to pay for this green energy. So let's put the debate back in its professional plane, let's cut to the chase. It's about the Energy Act and we're still on § 1. The proposed text provides for the Minister of Finance, together with the Minister of Energy and the Minister of Economy, to examine the possibility of establishing a regulation to notify to the European Commission and to agree on limiting the burden of these European commitments in terms of climate protection on the industry. And that we should all support, because everyone in this room is talking about reindustrialization. The Lightmotive of the government Oresharski was a reindustrialization of Bulgaria, only in the wrong way we will give hundreds of millions of government money to buy bankrupt companies and these bankrupt enterprises to reindustrialise Bulgaria. That's not the way. The way is by creating conditions under which these industrial enterprises in Bulgaria to work. In Bulgaria there are cases of enterprises that are not currently working and Greek analogues of the same legal entities work because there is already such a regulation in Greece and this risk is limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u87	- What's the line? Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u88	What you said in your last sentences, my friend Delyan Dobrev, was very true, and I'm just going to say three words. This reindustrialization was very nice and it was true. However, in your program and in your philosophy there is no, for example, reducing VAT on producers and uploading it to traders, increasing it to compensate it, but following the neoliberal doctrine according to which VAT must be equal for everything. This is not in any European country. It's only found in those like us who catch up with economies that represent economic deserts. In our program in several places has been developed. It's called reindustrialization with financial instruments. It's not called the state. There's somewhere else for the state. A financial instrument is the tax, a financial instrument are the preferences and this can happen with reindustrialization and Bulgaria to become a completely different country. But you have no desire to do so and we are arguing here in vain. Sorry again, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u89	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u90	Thank you for the line of my esteemed professor. Stanilov. In fact, the government in its programme, even in the energy sector, is making huge efforts to support the industry in Bulgaria as it aims to reduce energy costs, which are the main obstacle to the rapid development of the industry. And in this regard you know that it is written in the program that the government implements, researching the deep Black Sea for oil and gas, which is one of the most important things for stimulating the industry in Bulgaria. Contests for "Teres" and for "Silistar" received a decision by the Council of Ministers in December. The announcements from the Ministry, as far as I know, were sent yesterday or the other day to the official newspaper of the European Commission. They are expected to be published within 10 days, with which the competition itself will be launched. The discovery of oil and gas in the Bulgarian Black Sea, for which we are very optimistic because of all the information we have will be this stimulus for the industry, which is needed in Bulgaria, much greater than any differentiated VAT rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u91	To speak, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u92	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I also call on us to move on to a professional discussion of things, because small political banter, personal assaults and attempts to politicize will not lead us to good. It is unlikely that the state in which energy is present today will receive something useful from a debate that is carried from a professional on a personal basis. In this regard, I would like to use this statement that from now on, I hope that all colleagues will be constructive and look for common solutions for the benefit of Bulgarian energy, not to seek any personal benefits, profit or populist results. I fully agree that large energy consumers are, in fact, the big employers. There is no dispute about this thing and there is no dispute that creating more favourable conditions for these large consumers creates prerequisites, but, notice, it creates prerequisites, does not guarantee that there will be more jobs in terms of increased competitiveness and so on. I fully agree that in Western Europe, i.e. in other countries, the developed countries of the European Union, such measures are being sought. But, notice, these measures are being sought there because the energy efficiency potential has already been exhausted to a large extent. Because modern technologies are used there, because there investments that could have led to a decline in electricity consumption are largely exhausted as opportunities. In this regard, if we accept this text as it is here, without setting any conditions without setting at least legal frameworks in which this thing can develop, we can bring things to the point that we will have an extensive development of big consumers, as they will be relieved and will not even have any incentive to introduce energy efficiency measures because they have already received the corresponding reductions through the cost of electricity. My request is to withdraw this text at the moment, sit down and think about how we can tie the possibility of reducing the cost of electricity on the price of final production along with energy efficiency and incentive measures. So at first reading, I have the idea that, for example, the so-called voluntary agreements that exist under the Energy Efficiency Act, one of the incentives to conclude such voluntary agreements, which means that consumers voluntarily commit to reducing the relative cost of electricity, to be bound by such a ceiling relief. That is to say, the one who signs a voluntary agreement to reduce electricity consumption and increase its energy efficiency by a certain percentage as an incentive, not as a given, to obtain this opportunity. And then we will be in tune with modern European policy, then we will be in tune with what the Vice-President of the European Commission and the Commissioner for Energy said yesterday that energy efficiency is becoming key in energy policy. Let's withdraw this thing one more time, think about whether we can optimize it and then discuss it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u93	Any lines to Mr. Ermenkov? Mr. Dobrev, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u94	Mr. Ermenkov, you're wrong about us not setting any criteria. I'll read the second part of the t. 21: under the Guidelines on State aid for environmental protection and energy for the period 2014-2020. If you read the guidelines, you will see that there is a whole section in them that sets a number of conditions and restrictions on what this support might be, so we have explicitly cited the State Aid Guidelines in order to point to the fact that the conditions and restrictions under the State Aid Guidelines must be respected. You're also wrong to suggest that we're giving the ministers hardly a blank check. Firstly, they must follow the Guidelines and we have written it down that they must follow them, and, secondly, they have notified this aid, this support, these conditions, these criteria with the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u95	Second line? I won't. We're listening to your ass, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u96	Mr. Dobrev, I did not want to give those restrictions that you have written down, because they are an exclusive obligation of the state on the occasion of State aid and compliance with these Guidelines. They can't be switched on. I am not talking about these restrictions that are related to State aid. I'm talking one more time about binding an incentive that is called a reduction of the price of electricity with energy efficiency measures. The best way we can do this thing. Otherwise, it does give the impression that by adopting the text the way it is, there are lobbying interests that serve without...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u97	Whoa, whoa,
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u98	I'm saying again, no... Sorry, let's not get into dialogue. They'll make a note of it right away.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u99	I didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u100	Let's introduce at least this obligation of large consumers who really take energy efficiency measures because, excuse me, but big consumers are also the biggest energy distractions if you look at the statistics. That there are almost no measures that have been implemented recently for energy efficiency. It is constantly crying that the price of electricity is high, at the same time when there are obligations that need to be fulfilled to reduce the relative consumption of electricity on a unit of production nothing is done. That is why my request was: let us look again and commit, here is the time now to show that we are really pursuing a European policy aimed at energy efficiency and to link this, this ceiling, with this requirement for these enterprises. Otherwise, I say again, we give them an opportunity without asking them for anything. We don't even ask them to increase production, to increase jobs. A recommendation, a prerequisite that becomes it, does not happen if it is not legally laid down.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. You surprised me very nicely with Mr. Dobrev. You deserve to be admired. Mr. Nenkov has a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, there was a lot of talk yesterday about taking on the new debt and the agreement that we ratified yesterday. If we carefully put aside our purely political interests, we had listened to the Minister of Finance's words, namely, the big question about..................................... we are to accumulate a deficit now and for the next years, then the answer to the question is that if we do not want to have a deficit, we must develop the industry, we must develop the economy. We need urgently, not in a few years, but in a moment, serious economic growth, if we want to reach medium-term European countries that we very much like to talk about, but we do nothing. I certainly believe that the text, as it is laid down in the bill that we have tabled with our colleagues, is precisely to enable not one ministry but three ministries, together with the European Commission, to develop a methodology to compensate for these so-called large energy consumers. I believe and am convinced that it is precisely the expertise they have in these ministries that will be much more precise, much more specific than any ceiling that will be the result of some political agreement that we can vote on in this House. Moreover, I do not think that we should, by presumption, almost blame a future decision of these ministries for having supported one industry or another industry. There are very precisely defined rules of the European Commission that say which parts of the industry can be supported and how. Naturally, in this regulation, in this sub-regulation act there will be sufficient opportunity to justify under what conditions they will receive this support, whether they have implemented energy efficiency measures, whether they appoint new people, new jobs. Of course, this will be very accurate done in such a regulation. And I don't think we should be ashamed here in this room to call ourselves industry lobbyists. In any case, these energy enterprises, the so-called large energy consumers, have not become so much in this country. And reindustrialization does not mean buying out damaged businesses and pouring government money into them, namely looking for mechanisms to make for business, for the industry to be more predictable the environment in which they want to invest. That, my colleagues, is our biggest problem right now. No one wants to invest in a country where you first have political instability which is a fact in recent years, and the second is that you have no predictability about what will happen, about what new regulatory regimes there will be in the country, so it is undeniable, and I am convinced that I will support this so imported § 1 and really not be ashamed of being called the industry advocates. This is actually the point, and this will ensure in the future a sustainable development of the state and not to wonder how poor people pay their electricity, but to stimulate large businesses so that they give more work and people can afford the price of electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u103	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? There aren't any. Mr. Dimitrov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u104	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen! There are two trends that are problematic for Bulgaria. One is that industrial production is already being directed outside the European Union, because the environmental policy of the European Union, which we all support and is a very important one, makes these industries expensive and there is already a tendency for part of the European industry to move out of the European Union. The second trend, which is even more disturbing for Bulgaria, is that the new industrial enterprises in recent years in Bulgaria are few, i.e. there is little interest in the European business to invest in Bulgaria. In this sense, the measure proposed is in the right direction. It's not that she can't be corrupted, as colleagues have said, but that's why we're here to track her down. And I suggest the following thing: to support this text, to allow such a regulation to create good conditions for the industry and then to invite the Energy Commission to the Minister of Energy, to see the text of the regulation and if there are any comments to make them on the spot. If we want to block any such idea, we stand still and do nothing. The question is this: people ask us about new, well-paid jobs. If we do not take such action, there will be no new, well-paid jobs. That's what people from every single parliamentary group want us to do. When we go to see them, they ask us: when will there be new, well-paid jobs? I want to give you two statistics that are important. They're very simple. The first is this: Bulgaria has achieved 8% convergence with the European Union since Bulgaria's membership in the European Union. That is, since 2007 there has been 8% convergence. How do you calculate this? The European Union is 100% how much we have moved forward in these years. Romania for the same period has a 17% rate of reaching twice as fast as Bulgaria for the same period. What does that mean? That we should take similar measures to promote the industry. I listened carefully to my colleagues on the left. Of course any idea can be corrupted. It has no idea, however good it may not be, but it cannot be a reason for us not to try now to encourage the Bulgarian industry and create prerequisites for new, well paid jobs, which is required by many Bulgarian citizens of the Bulgarian Parliament. So I call on you to end this debate. I call on you to end this debate. I'm not making a procedural proposal, though. I call you simply. To support this measure and then to the Energy Commission to invite the Energy Minister, when the regulation is ready, to read it carefully, to make our remarks. It doesn't matter that this is a legal act. The word of the National Assembly always weighs when it is addressed in a reasonable manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u105	- What's the line? I won't. The word wants Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor to express the opinion of the Ministry of Energy. We support the proposal made. We have expressed our opinion in an official letter. I would like to briefly present to you the motives of the Ministry of Energy in support of this proposal. Why do we support this proposal? We support it, firstly, for one main reason relating to the change of European policy in terms of the risks of the excessive burden of the package. This change of policy has undoubtedly found its impact reflected in the Environmental and Energy State Aid Guidelines. These Guidelines have been in force since 31 July 2014. The Guidelines clearly defined the cases, it is clearly defined that it is possible and the European Commission allows the granting of aid in the form of a reduction of financial support for renewable energy. In other words, our concerns about whether the European Commission will agree with such a text are dropped because this is the vision of the European Commission. Annex 3 to these Guidelines clearly identifies the sectors for which such State aid may be available. These sectors are listed in detail. There lies the chemical industry and a number of other industries. So there is no possibility that someone will choose certain sectors in the regulation and promote some lobbying interests. I believe that any concerns regarding whether this change is in line with European practice and legislation are dropping out. With regard to the regulation, which must draw up the three ministries of energy, together with that of finance and economy, I believe that there is nothing more logical than that, as these three ministries have a direct bearing on these changes. You know that the Ministry of Finance is the directorate that deals with state aid. There is all the regulation on State aid. The Ministry of Energy must, in turn, take account of the cost of electricity. The Ministry of Economy is interested in developing the industry something that I think we should all unite around. We don't have any differences here. These are the reasons, ladies and gentlemen, for which the Ministry of Energy supports the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u107	Thank you, Minister Petkova. Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to participate in the discussion on the discussion of § 1? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! Madam President, if we had respected the Rules of Procedure and had these texts at first reading, then I am sure that there would have been this political debate and everyone could have expressed the opinion and opinion of the respective political power................................................................ Colleagues, I am convinced that there is no MP who does not want to develop the industry in Bulgaria, and there is also no MP who is not opposed to burdening the population or end-user with the part that our industry had to pay because of the burden that the European Union has burdened us with in relation to the relevant directives on the production of energy from renewable energy sources. Colleagues, today we have the opportunity to support this proposal with a clear awareness that, once again, following the guidelines and directives that the European Union gives us as an opportunity to assess and make it possible to reduce the burden in certain sectors so that they can really start to develop, even more so, and expect new investments from the perspective of these sectors of the industry. Colleagues, if we do not change the structure of the economy in Bulgaria, if we still believe that Bulgaria should develop only within agriculture and tourism, shut down all production capacities from heavy metallurgy to chemistry, I am not one of those people who support this idea. The three ministries, relying on all these requirements, should find the main balance where and how much they will reduce the burden of the industry and how much they will load the end-user in order to cover those costs that we have to pay from renewable energy sources. Colleagues, let us now move on to other proposals. You will see that there are very serious proposals in relation to reducing the weight from brown energy to end-user, however, we do not have that expectation that we should load those renewable energy sources from which we could reduce more resources to reduce, Madam Minister, the hole, the loss in the National Electricity Company. I'm sure that's a good offer, fellow Members. To support and follow from there, following the European Union guidelines, following those left-wing requirements, to see how many jobs will be opened and how energy efficiency requirements will be met. If we don't vote on this today, we won't have the opportunity to ask the industry to open up new jobs. And if the industry works, of course, that these people will receive salaries and will also have the opportunity to pay the burden that will result in the development of the economy. Colleagues, I think this is the goal, the direction in which we need to find balance as politicians, and accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u109	- What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u110	Dear Mr. Atalay, you're right. We all want to help the industry. I think we've been proving it back in time. In 2005, I found at the Ministry of Finance corporate tax 15%. It fell to 10%, only it meant to everyone, not just the big ones, the small ones, or the medium ones. The insurance's down nine points. It was about everyone, not just small, big or medium. Do you know the name of the big winner of this text? Lukoil Neftohim! Just because they are the largest energy consumer in Bulgaria. Are you sure you want to give a preference to Lukoil Neftohim and load 3 million domestic users, to ask you?! And then all the metallurgical, chemical and all the other companies go. I'm not convinced! That's what I'm talking about. Who's gonna pay the bill? All right, let's give them a preference, but who's gonna pay the bill, these losses?! I have no desire to scatter them either on small and medium-sized companies, of which I want them to become just as big as Lucoil and everyone else, or on domestic consumers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u111	Second line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u112	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! I take this line to try to refute the suggestion that those who will not support this text are against the industrialisation of the state that they are against the development of the economy, against industry. No, we are not, but we want conditions to be created in this way to happen and thus to be recorded in the Law in order to be bound by an effective development of this industry rather than extensive. To make changes to the Law so as to bind the obligations not only to the guidelines on State aid and environmental protection, but to be bound by the requirements of the labour market, i.e. to the development of jobs, with more efficient use of resources. Then we will already achieve that goal that is really good here. We do not object to the principle, but this principle cannot be unilateral, it must be complex, it must cover all aspects. This must be written in a law and, consequently, on the basis of these legal requirements, the ministers should have the opportunity to make their regulations. Because, excuse me, but when we delegate the rights to make regulations, no matter how much we discuss them later in the parliamentary committee, the person who has the legal right to adopt a regulation is the Council of Ministers, and we can only give our own opinion on the matter. Let us not bind the way of voting on this text to the desire for industrialisation or against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u113	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, no, you are not against industrialization and I have not said such a thing, but you are opposed to continuing to accept this Law. You know that the Law has come a certain way and has come to the Chamber, there is no way and why you propose to withdraw this Bill. These good intentions of yours, of course, there are many good intentions, many good views in them, and I would ask you: why did you not make them as suggestions and not just leave Mr. Dobrev's suggestions to discuss them? Give your suggestions when we will review the Energy Act and I am convinced that there will be good things that we will benefit from, because I know that you do not watch bees. Mr. Kadiev, the terminology that you are using that preferences are not given, but the burden is reduced by what the European Commission has put on us since 2008 because of the European Union's wrong policy that renewable energy sources should be imposed everywhere. After seeing that society did not have the opportunity to meet this burden, they wrote these guidelines to try to correct their policies. And no preferences are given, we will try with this text to reduce the burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u115	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] Mr. Mihov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u116	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, Mr Minister! For quite some time now, we have witnessed the collision of the colossus in energy. I think they can continue the debate outside the room. I therefore propose that we put an end to the debate and move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u117	There are no other requests for a statement, Mr. Mihov. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, is there anyone who would like a speech to launch a termination procedure? Since there are no willing ones, I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 in the version of this paragraph on the Commission report. Voted 103 MPs: 82, against 4, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u118	Proposal by the National Representative Velizar Enchev: A new paragraph shall be set up: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "supplier' shall be deleted. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The Public Council shall deal with problems of the special competence of the Minister of Energy under para. 1. A proposal for the holding of a Public Council with a specific agenda may be made by both parties. 3. They're creating an al. 5 and 6: In the preparation of energy restructuring programmes and strategies, as well as in the granting of permission to search and explore energy resources, a broad public debate and public consultation must be conducted. (6) When privatizing companies of strategic importance for national security: The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u119	Statements? Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u120	Madam President, Madam Minister, colleagues! The Commission will naturally not support the proposal, as the existence of a Public Council to this energy body is not in the interest of the government that they are. What are the reasons why I should propose such a Public Council? Non-governmental organisations and citizens, colleagues, have no legal rights to influence the Commission to fulfil its constitutional obligations. I believe that the change in the Energy Act with regard to these requirements will serve the sole public interest. I propose that this Public Council exist, that it be created, that it also have control functions. Because, look at what is said: When privatizing commercial companies from strategically important to national security..... we all know what privatization was like in Bulgaria 15 years ago, both mass and working-manager. I don't think any of you are going to challenge me and say that this wasn't a noon robbery. Precisely, in order to prevent a future robbery in the form of privatization, why not the Maritsa East, remember Maritsa's contracts with the two U.S. TPPs expire in 7 8 years. It is precisely because there must be public control over energy, precisely because we need to keep the remaining resources of energy from possible privatisation or something that is also so strange and I would say on the edge of the law a concession, because we know what concession means in Bulgaria, there must be a Public Council, and such a Public Council is one of the requirements of the European Commission. I wonder that this issue has not been put in Parliament so far by the Public Council, citizens who control the work of the state regulatory authority, of course, adding not only citizens but also non-governmental organisations. I realize that the word "NGO" is loaded with quite negative content, but this is something that exists in civil society and we must see not its different unpleasant appearances on the streets, but the civil content of such a structure. That is why I believe, I plead, I insist, and, of course, I do not hide that what I am importing represents the interests of several civil organisations with dozens of experts in energy from them who insist on creating such a Public Council to control and, if possible, impose their decisions. Here it is very well said: the decisions to be taken jointly by the Minister of Energy and the Public Council. What are you afraid of? Why do you not want citizens to participate, provided that they will not always have a blocking quota, at least express their opinion. If you want to change this paragraph. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] I kind of agree with you. I have been specific enough, I repeat once again, I believe that non-governmental organisations and citizens do not currently have a legal right to influence the Commission's work and thus control this work and ultimately lose all of us citizens, consumers of electricity. Please support this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u121	- What's the line? Any other MPs? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Velizar Enchev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 99 MPs: 16, against 70, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. It's 11:30. I'm announcing a 30-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u122	I'm inviting the MPs to enter the Chamber. We continue with the second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. The Quaestors, invite the peoples to the plenary. We're listening, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u123	Paragraph 1? a proposal from the MPs Ramadan Atali, Ahmed Ahmedov, Ventsislav Kaimakanov, Jayhan Ibryamov, Mustafa Ahmed and Mithat Metin: In § 1 t. 1 and 2 are amended as follows: 1. In para. 2, p. 2 the words The State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall be replaced by the Energy Regulatory Board. 2. In para. 4 words The State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is replaced by the Energy Regulatory Board. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u124	Statements? Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! Our proposal relates to the basic philosophy of the Bill. In fact, the idea of importers was to have a change in composition, activity, responsibilities and decisions that the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission would take from the outset. Dear colleagues, all politicians know about the intervention of every minister or every government in the activities and work of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in recent years. There is no executive that is not tempted, to give certain advice and instruction to this Commission when determining the price of the energy service................... If not, fellow Members, there was no way that today the price of electricity reaching the end-user would be lower than the cost lower than the costs incurred for energy production. At the same time, if we want those protests that are happening against energy prices to occur before the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, or before the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, not to happen before the Council of Ministers or before Parliament, today the National Assembly must make a responsible decision. According to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the responsible decision is to load the Commission and we have therefore proposed that there be two members of the Energy Regulatory Commission and the Water Regulatory Commission. The two compositions shall be responsible for determining the price of electricity and water. At the same time, there shall be a Commission for Water Regulatory under the jurisdiction or under the laws of the Ministry of Regional Development. We propose it with the clear aim that, since this Commission will be responsible and no longer the politicians or executive powers will interfere with the Commission's activities, they will also have responsibility for subsequent control. We propose that the Commission, which we will set up by energy regulation, have a permanent audit and supervision of electricity distribution companies and electricity supply companies, including gas distribution companies dealing with supplies or the public supplier. Colleagues, we propose it with the idea of restoring the public's trust in this Commission, or thus returning the trust of society and politicians, respectively, to the executive power. If three years ago, when there were riots on the Eagle Bridge, the responsibility for the price of electricity and for the price of electricity subsequently, and the State Commission was also responsible for the control, there would be no 45-day reports and people would be satisfied that the investments that were set by the State Commission to take place in the electricity distribution companies or other companies would be real and there would be no dispute. This is our idea, fellow Members. I believe that the two members with the Chair of the Energy Regulatory Commission with seven members and the composition of the Water Regulatory Commission with five members will be sufficiently burdened by opportunities to familiarize themselves with the proposals for the price of energy and for subsequent control. I am convinced that this proposal will also have opponents. Someone will probably say that we want to increase the number of administration, but the increase in the number of administration with five people will not be quite as fracking as allowing society to calm down and restore trust to the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u126	Thank you, too. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! I take the floor as a line, as I was greatly surprised by what I heard from Mr. Atalay. By listening to it, one gets the impression that almost by the DPS have invented these changes proposed in the Law and are the proposal of the Council of Ministers, to have a split of the Commission into two configurations and to meet in two separate configurations. If you had really invented these things, Mr. Atalay, you would have proposed them in the previous term and realized them. Now just say: "Yes, we support the importer's proposal and we will support, of course, that the Commission's activities become more transparent and accountable and so on, i.e. the things we will talk about further, but do not present them almost as your invention, as if you had imported them. Let us be correct, to observe and respect good manners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u128	Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u129	Thank you. Mr. Slavov, I'm gonna have to ask you to come to class. I defended my offer. Don't spoil your father's authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u130	Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part in the proposal? No. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atalay and a group which the Commission does not support. They voted 93 MPs: 9 against 47, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2 on the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: 93 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u131	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u132	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u133	Thank you, colleagues, those who supported and those who abstained. Obviously, the idea hasn't matured yet. Madam President, from now on, the texts relating to the division of the Commission into two compositions as importers are withdrawn so as not to prolong their reading time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u134	Are these all texts by the end of the report, or are there some that you do not withdraw?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u135	By the end of this report, there are texts relating to this text for dividing the Commission into two compositions. From now on, it's to be thought that we're withdrawing them, not to read them, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u136	Okay, thank you. I'll be counting on you to give me a sign, too. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u137	I thank Mr. Atalay for withdrawing the proposals, which, after not accepting the first proposal, have lost their meaning. That'll save us a lot of reading. My legal proposal is to extend the time of today's meeting until this bill is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u138	A reverse opinion? I won't. We vote on Mr. Dobrev's proposal. Vote 101 MPs: 80 against 10, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u139	Paragraph 2. Proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u140	We vote. They voted 106 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u141	Paragraph 3. Proposal by MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov, Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u142	Tell a group of MPs because we're wasting time reading names. We all have the report in front of us, or at least the ones we're interested in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u143	All right, Madame Chairman. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MP Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The regulation of energy and sustainable energy development activities as well as water and sewerage activities shall be carried out by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words The State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is replaced by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. 2. The creation of para. 3: In exercising its powers, the Commission is independent of the executive power and its activities are carried out on the basis of independence, impartiality, professionalism, integrity, consistency, publicity and transparency. The Commission shall report on its activities to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u144	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Dragomir Stoinev, Ermenkov and Boychev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 98 MPs: 18, against 61, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 4 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 93, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u145	Paragraph 4. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Kiril Tsochev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Velizar Enchev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The 11th para is The Commission shall establish a Public Supervisory Board from non-governmental and trade union organisations entitled to a one-off vote in the public discussion of the proposed decision. Membership is voluntary and subject to registration. The Public Supervisory Board shall work under the rules of procedure approved by the Council itself, such as: 1. The public supervisory board shall have the right to request information about the technical, economic and energy performance of each energy and water company from the Commission; 2. The public supervisory board, with a reasoned opinion, may request the Commission to audit each energy and water company; 3. The public supervisory board may request the Commission to initiate a procedure for withdrawing the licence of each energy company under art. 59, para. 1, t. 1, t. 2, p. 3 et c. 4 as well as water companies where they do not fulfil the conditions under their licences and concessions. 4. The Commission shall report on its activities to the public supervisory board, at least once a year, as well as on decisions of great public importance. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal on the number of members and, in the rest, it is withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. "2." Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The President, Vice-Presidents and members of the Committee shall be elected and released by decision of the National Assembly. 3. In paragraph 4, the words "one member' shall be replaced by "members'. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and 4 and does not support it by t. Two and three. Proposal from the MPs Dragomir Stoinev, Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev: "Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 the following 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Commission shall be a college body and shall consist of 11 members, including a Chair and two Vice-Presidents responsible for the sector................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The President, Vice-Presidents and members of the Committee shall be elected and released by decision of the National Assembly and shall take the oath. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 3 and does not support it by t. 1 and 2. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 1 the figure "seven' is replaced by "seven' is replaced by "seven' is replaced by "seven' is replaced 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The President and the other members of the Committee shall be elected and released by the National Assembly. 3. Alinea 4 is canceled. 4. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The selection of new members of the committee shall be made no later than three months and no later than one month before the expiry of the term of office of the members in force. The members of the committee shall continue to carry out their duties after their term of office has expired until the new members take office.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u146	Statements? Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u147	Madam President, colleagues! It is a pity that when the Commission rejects a proposal, it does not give reasons for this rejection. So I'm gonna start with a question. I don't see what's wrong with the public board having a one-off vote in public discussion? What is wrong with the public council asking for information about the technical and economic performance of each energy and water company and at any moment knowing what state it is in? What's wrong with asking for an audit from this Supervisory Public Council for every energy company to know a lot of things. First of all, does it not export capital from the country? I don't see what there is criminal about this public council that you don't approve of at all, asking for the start of a procedure for withdrawing a licence? This can be requested in a parliamentary committee and, as I recall, was requested by the representatives of the party. Naturally, it was not accepted, as energy oligarchy would not allow it. What is wrong with other than in a parliamentary committee is that it also happens on a public supervisory board that asks the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to initiate a procedure for revocation of a licence in case of proven violations. You know what happened just a month and a half ago in Eastern Bulgaria, where an electricity distribution company, not to mention its name, committed a real energy terror on Bulgarian citizens. Why are you afraid of all of this? citizens to ask for information, audit, procedure for withdrawal of a licence if a very important clarification? there is very serious evidence of this. And most importantly: where is the criminal, controversial, legally non-restraint Commission at least once a year to be accountable to this public supervisory board, in particular, to the Bulgarian citizens? I don't see anything wrong, nothing controversial. I therefore find it very strange that, in these specific cases, the Commission does not come up with an argument for its refusal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u148	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Slavov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Here we now come to the essential part of the Law, honourable Members. In fact, we also see the modified model of work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which must cease to be a simple validator of the decisions of the executive power and become a public regulator in the way Bulgarian citizens expect it from us and in the way we have recorded it in our programme from the Reformation Block. First of all, you see that it is envisaged that the Commission's choice is to be carried out by the National Assembly and to be accountable to the National Assembly. Next, it will become clear that the personal responsibility of the Members of the Commission has been strengthened and they can no longer vote abstention on a given decision, and they are required to clearly say whether they are for a decision proposed or against a decision, this is reflected in a public protocol and everyone can see how who voted and with what motives. Here is the real responsibility, transparency and public control over the work of a regulator. There is not a repeat of a public council, which is currently listed in the Energy Act, but it is evident that as an advisory body it is not effective enough. This does not prevent some colleagues from offering it in several places in the Bill.. to have it just in case if it passes somewhere. I'm a little off topic here. In order to return to it, this is the way for the Commission to be truly objective, to serve the public interest, to have its work transparent and to make decisions transparent, public and in the public interest. To make it clear what motivated these decisions to be taken, to make it clear whose interests the members of this Commission are protecting. We from the Reformation Block will support the importer's proposals. We had made our own proposals even to deepen this personal responsibility, and for each Commissioner it was intended to have a responsibility for a particular portfolio to say the portfolio or portfolio of citizens' complaints to make it clear who really does what and what work does. This is not adopted at this stage, but we believe that the approach is correct and this is how the regulator will become public and serve the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u150	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Honest Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u151	Madam President, honourable Members! I will make a very brief statement on this and on all other texts relating systematically to our proposal. We are talking about introducing a new principle for the election of Vice-Presidents of the Commission and, accordingly, about the responsibility of these Vice-Presidents. First of all, our view is that the SEWRC currently has a bump in the work. This is clearly operational. The reason is largely the excessive number of sole responsibilities entrusted to the President. Metaphorically speaking, the speed of an armada is equal to the speed of the slowest ship. In this case, we propose that there should be a landing of the President and a targeting of specific competences to the Vice-Presidents who have their operational autonomy in the respective portfolios. This will make their work far more productive. I think in this plan we have the examples of the Bulgarian National Bank, the Financial Supervision Commission and other institutions organised in this way. We believe that this will be useful in general for the functioning of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u152	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. - What's the line? I won't. Other MPs on the texts discussed? Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u153	Madam President, I allow myself, in a nutshell, to argue our proposal. We also support and adopt from now on the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to be elected by the National Assembly and its reporting and to be sufficiently public. In an effort to strengthen the composition of the Commission and to increase the effectiveness of its work, we have made a proposal that its composition be of 11 people. It is not supported by the task force. We see that the other concept for two separate committees is not adopted. We see that it needs to strengthen capacity. Such were the arguments for the proposal and the corresponding allocation of the Vice-Presidents responsible for one and the other portfolio. We believe that this is how a number of such institutions, elected by the National Assembly, work. We've shared this pattern from there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u154	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I will first put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs. [[Reply from rapporteur Delyan Dobrev.]] It's withdrawn. I put to the vote Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal, which the Commission does not support. Vote 107 MPs: 14 against 77 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs in the part which is not supported by the committee. This is on points 2 and 3, which he defended just now. We are voting for an unsupported part of the MPs' proposal. They voted 101 MPs: 18, against 32, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal by Mr. Stoynev, Mr. Ermenkov and Mr. Boychev in the part where the Commission does not support him. We vote. They voted 96 MPs: 8 against 69, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 4, which becomes § 5. We are voting § 5 on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 84 against 7, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u155	Under § 5 there is a proposal from the MPs Borislav Velikov and group: In Paragraph 5, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: 1, t. 2 point (b) shall be replaced by the word (s) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Kiril Tsochev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by MPs Ramadan Atalay and group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 letter (s) (i.e. point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013) 2 and supports it in principle in the rest: In § 5, art. 12 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2 (a) is added after the word "the two with experience in electricity," one with experience in thermal energy. 2. In para. 5 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." of the Vice-Presidents of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria, 89 per cent of the three average monthly salaries of employed persons under labour and service in the sector of production and distribution of electricity and heat and gaseous fuels, according to data from the National Statistical Institute; Proposal from the MPs Dragomir Stoinev and group. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support it by t. 2: "2." A new para is being created. 7. For the Vice-Presidents, the requirements shall apply accordingly: 1. 1, t. 1, b. supplier or b. .................................................................................. 2 for the Vice-President in charge of the Sector......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2 times para. 1, t. 1, b. ............................................................................... 2 for the Vice-President in charge of the Sector Water and sewerage services Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Nedev and group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the 1. Alinei 1, 2 and 3 are amended as follows: For members of the committee, active Bulgarian citizens may be elected who: 1. have completed higher education with an educational-qualification degree 2. possess a good professional reputation and professional experience not less than 10 years, of which at least 7 years: (a) internship in the field of energy for four of the members of the committee; (b) internship in the field of water supply and sewerage for two of the members of the committee; (c) legal service for one of the members of the committee; (d) an internship in the field of economics for one of the members of the committee; (e) internship in the field of energy or in the field of water supply and sewerage for the Chair of the Commission; 3. are not sentenced to imprisonment for a deliberate crime of a general nature. (2) Members of the Commission may not be associated persons within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest. (3) The members of the committee shall not take any other paid position or carry out any other paid activity other than on international projects and programmes relating to the activities of the committee, scientific, teaching or activity regulated in the Copyright and Related Rights Act. 2. Allinea 4 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u156	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Velikov, Dobrev, Vesselinov and Tsochev, which the committee does not support. We are voting for an unsupported proposal from a group of MPs. They voted 97 MPs: 12, against 52, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Iskren Veselinov and a group in the part where it is not supported by the Commission. The rest is supported in principle. They voted 91 MPs: 8 against 44, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Stoynev, Ermenkov and Boychev in the part where it is not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 12, against 61, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal for the version of § 5 by importer, which becomes § 6 on the Commission report and in the content of this Commission report. Vote 98 MPs: 95, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u157	Under § 6 there is a proposal from Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Kiril Tsochev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: supposes for appointment of members of the committee to the Members of the National Assembly and the Parliamentary Groups may: 1. Bulgarian non-profit legal entities registered for public benefit in the spheres regulated by this law, under the Law on the Regulation of Water Supply and Sewerage Services and under the Law on Consumer Protection; 2. the nationally represented employers' and workers' organisations; 3. experts wishing to apply and meeting the conditions for taking up the post referred to in Article 12. 2. A new para is being created. 3: When a Member of the National Assembly or a Parliamentary Group makes a proposal based on a proposal from non-profit legal entities or a nationally represented organisation of employers and employees, this is noted in the proposal. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Velizar Enchev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12a, para. 2 after the word "public" is added "private" after the words "workers and employees" is added "NGO and citizens" and a third sentence is created: "50% of the members of the Commission to be elected on proposals from NGOs and citizens." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: The following additions shall be made in § 6: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12a after the word "Presidents" shall be added "Deputy Vice-Presidents." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12b after the word The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Stoinev and group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 12a and Art. 12a. (1) The members of the committee shall be elected following a public procedure. (2) Proposals for the election of members of the committee may be made by the Members of the National Assembly and the Parliamentary Groups. (3) The National Assembly shall elect the President and the other members of the Committee separately. (4) The members of the committee shall swear before the National Assembly an oath under art. 76, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Art. 12b. (1) The mandate of a member of the committee shall be terminated in advance: 1. at his request; 2. in case of incompatibility; 3. in the event of actual inability to perform its duties for more than 6 months; 4. when he is sentenced to imprisonment for a deliberate criminal offence of a general nature with an act of entry into force; 5. in the event of serious infringement or systematic failure to comply with the duties; 6. upon the entry into force of an act establishing a conflict of interest under the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest; 7. in the event of death. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1, 4, 6 and 7 the grounds shall be announced by the President of the National Assembly before the National Assembly. (3) In cases of early termination of a member of the commission, a new member shall be elected within two weeks of the entry into force of the decision to terminate under para. 1, t. 2, 3 and 5, or from the announcement under para. 1, t. 1, 4, 6 and 7. The newly elected member shall complete the term of office of the person in whose place he is elected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u158	Statements? Go ahead, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u159	Just editing, if you don't mind. I've read in two pages, and it's a period of two months in para. 3 in the main text of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u160	In view of a previous vote, which rejected the model with vice-presidents, from here to the end of our proposals, where the subject of vice-presidents is being treated, we withdraw them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u161	Thank you for your correctness, Mr. Vesselinoff. Mr. Enchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u162	Madam President, colleagues! Now open your ears well, as you all assert and swear on European integration. [[Radio, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u163	Mr. Enchev, my ears are open. If you continue with this vocabulary, I'll close something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u164	I apologize. Under the Third Energy Project of the European Commission, a directive was adopted in 2009, which entered into force since 2011. This directive states that structures such as the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission should be a civil forum and not a political body as it currently is. I ask you very much to bear in mind this directive by the Third Energy Package of the European Commission. It's 2015 today. We are four years late for this imperative recommendation of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u165	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u166	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! Given that, indeed, unfortunately, the option with two vice-presidents has not been accepted to be the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which will ultimately further see that it will lead to a state when the issues relating to the water sector can only be resolved by one commissioner who is competent in this matter, but, however, you have already taken that decision. In this regard, we withdraw our proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u167	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. That was the right thing to do. Statements? I won't. Any other MPs willing to take the floor? I can't see. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Kiril Tsochev's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 96 MPs: 14 against 51, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal. The Commission does not support it. Vote 91 MPs: 10, against 66, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, but it has been withdrawn after it has been reported. We remain to vote on the main text of the Commission's report on the version of § 7. We are voting § 7 on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u168	According to § 7 the proposal by the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 4 and does not support it in the rest. ) (a.k.a. 1 et c. 3 proposals are withdrawn, so I'm going to read this. 2 which is not withdrawn at the time: In § 7, Article 7 (b) and (c) and (d) of the Act of Accession of the Republic of Austria, Article 7 (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 7 (c) of the Treaty on the ... 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The Commission's meetings shall be regular if two thirds of its members are present. Decisions shall be adopted by two thirds of the majority. Proposal from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MP Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Commission shall be a permanent active body meeting if not less than: 1. seven of its members, of which not less than three of the members in charge of the sector of energy and sustainable energy development, as well as the Vice-President in charge of this sector, in the exercise of its powers under this law; 2. five of its members, of which not less than one of the members in charge of the Water and sewerage services sector, as well as the vice-president responsible for this sector, in the exercise of its powers under the Water Supply and Sewerage Services Regulation Act. 2. Alinei 2.. 5 are being The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Nedev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and 2 and supports it in general in the remainder: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 13 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Commission's meetings shall be regular if two thirds of its members are present and the decisions shall be adopted by a majority of more than half of all Commissioners. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The meetings of the committee shall be open when: 1. shall be discussed with the parties to the proceedings applications or requests relating to the issue, amendment, addition, withdrawal and termination of a licence or with validation of prices; 2. decisions shall be given in connection with the implementation of the powers of the Committee on the Law on Energy and the Law on the Regulation of Water Supply and Sewerage Services The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 7, which becomes § 8: ................................................................................... Article 13 is amended as follows: Art. 13. (1) The Commission shall be a permanent active body meeting if more than half of the members are present. (2) The Commission shall examine and resolve matters relating to price regulation in energy and water services and complaints received in two configurations as follows: 1. the composition of the Board, which includes the Chair, the members with experience in the field of energy, as well as the members who are a lawyer and economist; 2. The Board of Directors of Water and sewerage, which includes the Chair, the members with experience in the field of water supply and sewerage, as well as the members who are a lawyer and economist. (3) The Commission shall decide by reasoned decisions which are individual or general administrative acts. Decisions shall be adopted by a majority of more than half of the members, of which at least: 1. two members with internship in the energy sector in the exercise of the powers of the Commission in the energy sector; 2. one of the members with internship in the field of water supply and sewerage in the exercise of powers of the Commission in the water supply and sewerage. (4) Abstention shall not be allowed. The voting process of each voter and the motives of each voter against shall be reflected in a protocol to the decision. (5) The meetings of the committee shall be opened when examining applications or requests relating to: 1. issuing, amending, supplementing, withdrawing and suspending a licence; 2. validation of prices; 3. other issues related to the implementation of the powers of the Commission. (6) In cases where information protected by law is disclosed, the meetings of the Committee under para. 5 shall be held in closed doors, only members of the committee and the parties to the proceedings may be present. (7) The decisions of the Committee under para. 5 and 6 shall be held in closed session and shall be declared in accordance with the rules of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1. (8) In the exercise of its powers, the Commission shall apply the procedural rules laid down in this Law and the rules of the Administrative Procedure Code to the cases not settled therein. (9) Decisions, including the silent refusal of the Commission, shall be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal shall not stop the execution of the decision. The request to suspend the execution of a judgment challenged by a court is inadmissible, except as regards decisions imposing sanctions, decisions suspending and withdrawing licences and decisions withdrawing certificates of independence of transmission system operators.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u169	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u170	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! First, I will start by withdrawing our proposal, as you have already voted on a very different number of Commissioners. There's no point wasting time on things that have already been solved. I would like to speak on the substance of what is being proposed to us as a text of the Commission. In the light of § 8, Article 8. 13, our remarks are mainly to para. 2 of art. 13 new:... examines and solves issues related to its regulation in two compositions........................................................................................................................................................ What we cannot accept at the moment is that a collective body can sit in two separate configurations. Here we come to something that contradicts the idea that you have previously felt that the Commission will not be divided into two, but will be one committee. So I'm asking you very much, if you don't mind. 2 rejected and the Commission's version remains only with the paragraphs 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, we will support this proposal, but if you let it have two compositions, we will not support it for one single reason. I can't imagine how a chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will play the role of a Figaro here, Figaro there. How will he hold meetings of one Chamber, and then another Chamber? How will this President have the competence to lead both configurations, given that the composition of the water service is allowed to have only one water service specialist when the decisions are taken. What will the authority be and what will be the method by which this decision can be independent of one person. You know what I mean. Therefore, I ask you very much let us let the Commission decide its own matters as it is now in full composition. Let's drop the al. 2 to support things and move on. We agree that there are questions, and you must agree that the issues of pricing water and sewerage services are largely related to the issues of electricity price. Let's not make artificial separations. Once again, I ask you to withdraw para. 2. In this case, we will support the entire paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u171	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Here's a line, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u172	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Ermenkov, your logic is good, but he won't be one. There will be the chairman, there will be the economist, there will be the lawyer. In its current composition, what is happening? The competent one can still be one. The others will not be professionals in this particular area. So I see no problem in making decisions. There is no difference between the current way of managing the Commission, in making a decision, and what we are giving. We are simply enabling the Commission to be more operational in the things on which it can decide and which we have written in this paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u173	Second line, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u174	Mr. Ermenkov, the meetings in the two separate configurations are limited to some of the Commission's powers, in particular with regard to complaints and pricing. Regarding your statement that only one specialist in the water sector is sufficient to make a decision, and the existing Law is so. There's no change there. Don't do anything different. However, where complaints are addressed, there is no need for the entire composition of the Commission to examine them in one of the sectors in the water and electricity sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u175	Third line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Before me Mr. Nikolov and Mr. Dobrev largely explained things. What I would add to what they have said is that no one requires these two compositions to sit at the same time. There is no problem with the same people participating in the two compositions and participating in meetings of these two compositions. The point to understand it all of our fellow Members is for the Commission to be much more effective. That is to say, in decisions concerning energy and it is not necessary for people with competence in the water sector to be present, at the same time they can work within the activity of the other composition, so that the work goes in practically two directions. It's okay that some people will be involved in both. As noted, the economist and the lawyer who will be members of the Commission participate in both. Decisions won't be made by just one expert. There will be a lawyer and economist as well as a president of the Commission who will participate in each meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u177	A hole, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u178	Colleagues, I've heard very carefully what you said. In fact, you didn't convince me why there should be two compositions. We do not object to the Commission ruling with motivated decisions, as in para. 3, and the way things are taken. We no longer object because you did not accept the number that was proposed. However, I do not see any point in limiting the possibility of Commissioners to participate in the Commission's activities, provided they are engaged in the same activity. This is the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The Union is a coupling union. It is not an exclusive union..... or.................... So please, once again, let us not make unnecessary separations, that we will improve the work. The principle of decision-making has very well been described in para. 3. Alinea 2 in this case only introduces unnecessary segmenting of the Commission, which will not contribute to its effectiveness. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] He won't, Mr. Ivanov. Sorry to enter into a dialogue with you. It will not lead, on the contrary, to a complication of how and how to combine the activities and how to meet the compositions so that the President of the Commission can be either in one or in the other. Once again, this is pointless, there's no point in doing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u179	Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u180	Dear Madame Chairman, Madame Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The debate has deviated from the most important issues and I will bring you back to the most positive thing we do in this paragraph. Bulgaria has problems with its control and regulatory authorities. This problem is largely due to not knowing who, how he voted, what position he took. In previous national meetings, we have made such suggestions and they have been rejected. Look what you got. The SEWRC gathers and not only, but also other regulators, make an open discussion in front of the people and then they say, "Wait, now we're going to go secretly to vote." It never became clear who, how he voted. For years, you couldn't check who, how inside the SEWRC what decision they made. That is, the biggest or one of the most significant changes we are making now and saying that there are no open, no closed meetings, finally the protocol becomes public. It should be on the website of the SEWRC and inside we should be able to check for any key decision who, how he voted. This change, which is obvious, for many years, while our speech colleagues were in power, did not perceive it and it was not a fact, and this is a very big change. Every Bulgarian citizen will already know about any decision taken by the SEWRC who took it, who voted for the decision, who stood behind it and who was against it. Notice, the reasons for the vote against the vote will also be public. It has only been clear so far that one decision has been made by five to three votes for example, and it has not been clear who voted for the vote and who voted against the vote. We don't have to stop this change here. We have introduced it into the Law on the Court of Auditors, we are introducing it now into the Law on the SEWRC. It must be introduced wherever we talk about regulatory and control bodies. There is no reason for anyone who wants to be a member of a regulatory authority to know that their decision can no longer be secret. We can't, as has happened to a committee that's been looking at the withdrawal of K.P.M.G.'s license recently, we couldn't figure out who voted so this license wouldn't be revoked. This practice must be interrupted once and for all. If we want a reform in Bulgaria and a change in the work of the regulatory control bodies, what we are doing now, which we have already done in the Court of Auditors, which we are doing today in the SEWRC, must happen everywhere where it is a regulatory and control body. Finally, once again, I stress that the people of the SEWRC who voted against it will not only be seen that they voted against it in the minutes, but also their motives will be public. It will be clear why there have been people who have voted against it for what reasons and what reasons. By the way, this is also a good criterion for people who want to work in such regulatory bodies. They must first know that they cannot be anonymous, can no longer hide behind the President, but will take a personal responsibility and personal position on any such issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u181	- What's the line? Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u182	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! Mr. Dimitrov, I'm sorry, I couldn't understand what gave you reason to believe that someone is opposed to making the decisions as described. I think that I very clearly and accurately expressed the position of the BSP Parliamentary Group left Bulgaria, which was that we fully support this paragraph, but we cannot support the division of the Commission into two compositions - one subparagraph and not the whole paragraph. I think I've made myself very clear about this thing. Everything else stays the way it is under the Commission's authority. For us, this text not only does not help, it prevents the effective work of the Commission. I mean para. 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u183	Mr. Georgiev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u184	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Dimitrov, in principle we support all control bodies to act in maximum transparency, with clear responsibility for the decisions they make, with clear personal responsibility of each of the members of these control bodies. I am afraid that your calls for a maximum, effective and transparent solution to the issues are rather some kind of visible facade and will not be realized in practice, including in the texts you are now proposing. See that there are still closed meetings here, there is still a difference in the meetings and the moment of decision making. Why is that necessary? How long before the Commission is pronounced after the open session is held? Does anyone say that? Won't it have an impact on the members of the control body within this period? Therefore, we would welcome all the legal decision that is really about transparency, about an open and clear solution to know which member, what he has decided. However, I am afraid that this version, which is actually very vague, I share and support my colleague Ermenkov: for what do we need a double composition, we from one body do two bodies or not? Why there is a need to be an al. Two? Please understand, there is no need for this paragraph. Let the Commission meet and if it is going to deal with energy issues, some of its members will be involved. If they are going to deal with issues of the water sector, other members will participate. 3. Please, let's drop the al. 2 I make such an offer, but then perhaps I will speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u185	There's a proposal made, I'll put it to the vote. Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Dimitrov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u186	It is interesting when I hear colleagues who say that many support certain decisions, and have been in power three or four times minimum and haven't introduced them. This has always astonished me, puzzled me, didn't understand it. Because I do not want to spoil the good tone and constructive dialogue that we observe, and these proposals we have made before and they have not been supported and I can tell you who has not supported them, but I will not spoil the constructive tone, colleagues. I checked specifically and now I have spoken to colleagues in art. 15 was the text saying that the votes and protocols are published on the website of the SEWRC. This concerns both the votes that are open and closed. This is a very important clarification that the lawyer from a left-wing parliamentary group had not stated as a fact, that is, the meeting may be closed, but the voting protocol is public and it is on the website of the SEWRC. This is a very big change, colleagues, much greater transparency and accountability of the SEWRC as a regulatory authority, which we must strongly support today. I call on all the parliamentary groups not to look for reasons not to support, but to go the right way to make the responsible authorities through accountability to become others in Bulgaria, to function better and to become real regulatory bodies, as we see in many European countries, in many well-established democracies. So please do not confuse the sitting may be closed, but the way of voting is public, it does not matter that the sitting itself has been closed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u187	Any other MPs? Mr. Atalay first, after him Mr. Boychev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I still thank you for reading Mr. Dimitrov at last the article on which he came to speak because it was clear from his first speech that he did not know that there would be open and closed meetings. It's a good thing Mr. Simeonov, as far as I can tell, tipped him off there and he found out what he was talking about. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Mr. Dimitrov, you were Chairman of the Energy Commission when the same Commission was working, the same things were happening in Bulgaria and now and suddenly, when you became a reformer you found the hot water. Mr. Ermenkov, there's no way out. 2 When a law is drawn up, there is a philosophy, it makes sense. When I proposed that we divide the Commission into two, that there be a Commission on Energy and a Commission on Water, then you could plead to different compositions, as they want at the moment. I don't know how this Commission will work with three lawyers, economist and chairman, unless God forbid, the water expert comes along, something happens to them and three months doesn't show up. Then there won't be an open session to make a decision, Mr. Dimitrov. I know you read a lot, but a lot of reading can hurt. Thank you. [[Noise and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u189	Personal explanation Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u190	My fellow Members, I am very careful not to disturb the constructive tone, but I would like to remind you of the following. When I was president of the Commission in question, I suggested that the votes be public, that everyone be clear about how they voted in the SEWRC, but unfortunately I did not receive support from the colleagues back then. I remember that even my colleague, who now addressed me personally, was not one of the supporters, but was one of those who had been well hidden on the subject. Because the regulatory authorities and their decisions not to be public did a very good job for a number of parties over the years they have long ruled. I have made this proposal, colleague, I have seen that you are addressing me and, unfortunately, I was not supported at the time. Unfortunately, GERB did not support me either.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u191	That's not possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u192	That's right, Mr. Dobrev. Just because Mr. Dobrev was a minister back then, he wasn't in the room to cooperate. That was probably the reason. Unfortunately, when we made this proposal and there was a stormy debate in the House, the DPS was conveniently hiding from this topic. Also the SEWRC to be elected by the parliament I have proposed again, we have proposed again, but alas we have not found the necessary support, including from you, a colleague. I hope, returning to constructive conversation, that these things will be forgotten and that today we will make an important step for the regulatory authorities to be reformed, that other types of regulatory bodies will be more responsible, more accountable, more transparent. And not to stop with the SEWRC, not to stop with the Court of Auditors, to take the next steps tomorrow, such as the Financial Supervision Commission, the Commission for Protection of Competition. You'll probably say there, colleagues, that you've always been there for us. Hopefully, together, we will continue the same correct path to accountability, transparency and personal responsibility in the work of the regulatory authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u193	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u194	Dear Lord Chairman, dear Minister, colleagues! Colleague Atalay, once again I want to say that when you write a law there is a logic in it. Probably the right way was to have two regulatory authorities, but from BSP left Bulgaria we tried to enter into that expression "The shoes of GERB", not to drive them under these financial frameworks that are in the state, to make another body, with another administration and so on, so we had made a compromise option in which to have vice-presidents, a wider composition that could work. Unfortunately, neither one or the other has passed. We are currently in the situation in which we have nine members, this is, we cannot move from there, but I say to you, the division of the Chambers, Mr. Atalay, is evasive and necessary, because otherwise we do have a danger that some of the meetings will not take place because of a lack of quorum, and also because of a lack of way in which they will be conducted. I think it's al. 3 It is very precise and clear how decisions are made, who should be present. Let us not restrict the right of a Member of the Commission to attend a meeting on matters relating to its activity. After all, it is not the Commission's activity and it is not the Committee on Energy and Water Regulatory, but it is the activity of the Committee on Energy and Water Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u195	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Another line of Mr. Atalay's statement? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u196	Mr. Ermenkov, once again I will say that the logic and framework of this law in the Commission is as we have adopted it. From now on, your proposal is to violate the further scheme of the work of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u197	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u198	Don't try! Do, as discussed with experts, with the Minister, with all the colleagues who were in the Commission, as it is agreed to go in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u199	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Here's your speech, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to declare the wish of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria the regulators in Bulgaria and this important regulator, as is the Financial Supervision Commission, to work in an open, public way, in which the position of each of their members will be clear and clear. By the way, Mr. Dimitrov, I am ready and waiting for your proposals as a representative of the majority in the Financial Supervision Commission and the Commission for Protection of Competition in order to be able to support them. However, what we do not agree with in our proposed paragraph is that after Mr Atalay's proposal to essentially have two regulators after you rejected the proposal that we have two responsible vice-presidents, you are proposing that the Commission work in two configurations. We want to protect you from creating chaos in the work of the regulator. In addition, what questions will be considered and subject to these compositions? It is essentially so that not even the individual members are equal. See the President, the lawyer and the economist will participate in both bodies. They will be much more involved with the work in this direction. From now on, the reform of the water sector is not insignificant, and the decisions for this sector can only be made with one commissioner who has this type of specialization. Just because it has so far allowed the Commission's work does not mean that, by adopting this law, that is the objective of essentially correcting part of its work. We therefore simply want to protect you from the possibility of the Commission being reproached or creating chaos in its work. If you want to solve any questions, don't solve them in the law. Didn't the Commission adopt the Rules of Procedure for its work? If there is a need to optimize this activity in any way and work more effectively, it may decide it by the Rules which it adopts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u201	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. A line? I can't see. Colleagues, I'm closing the debate on this text. I shall put to the vote § 7. Read it, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u202	Proposal by the Members of the National Assembly Ramadan Atalay and a group of Members of the National Assembly 2, which I have already read, not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u203	Voting mode. Vote 78 MPs: 11 against 37, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u204	Mr. Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs withdrew their proposal. Mr. Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs withdrew their proposal. The proposal by the MPs Georgi Nedev and a group of MPs in the part which is not supported by the Commission should be voted on, i.e. points 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u205	We are voting on the proposed text, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 82 MPs: 14 against 34, 34 abstentions. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u206	Mr. Chairman, I ask you now to put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Tasco Ermenkov for dropping out of para. 2 in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u207	Please vote on the text proposed, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 15 against 51, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's text in the version of the report. 90 MPs voted: 73, against 1, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u208	Proposal from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev and group: A new paragraph shall be set up: I'm sorry, A new article shall be created. 13a: Art. 13a. (1) The Commission shall be established by representatives of non-profit legal entities registered for public benefit representing non-governmental and trade union organisations of civil society. Membership of the Council shall be voluntary and subject to registration. The Public Council shall work under the rules of procedure proposed by it itself and agreed with the Commission. (2) The Public Council shall have the right to a one-off deferred vote in the public discussion of the proposed decision. (3) The Public Council shall have the right to request information about the technical economic indicators, any energy and water company from the Commission (4) The Public Council may propose to the Commission to initiate a procedure for withdrawing the licence of each energy company under art. 59, para. 1, t. 1, t. 2, p. 3 et c. 4 of the Energy Act, as well as sanctions for water companies when they do not fulfil the conditions under their licences and concessions. (5) The activity report under Art. 20a, para. 1, t. 2 and para. 2 shall be transmitted to the National Assembly and published in consultation with the Public Council. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u209	Are there any statements on this text? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u210	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! I don't understand why we're afraid to set up a public council for the regulator. That's what I don't understand! I mean, everyone here in this room swears that we are listening to the voice of civil society, that we will develop civil society, that it will have a defining role in policy-making and we do not want to create a Public Council to the activity of perhaps the most sensitive regulator, which is, and this is the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, according to its new name. Moreover, notice, this Public Council and the way we propose it cannot and in no form has the opportunity to sabotage the Commission's work. He has a purely formal opportunity to observe its activities and a purely formal veto for things which, according to the Public Council, which is an expression of civil society are not sufficiently justified. I think that when we talk here about openness, our colleagues in the Reformation Block, when we talk about how things should be transparent when we talk about working in the name and for the benefit of our constituents, there is nothing more natural than giving them access through this Public Council to the work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I ask you very much, let us support this thing, because, again, I am telling you, it will neither interfere with the work, but only increase its transparency, it will only enable people to make their opinions official, organised and institutionalised through this Public Council. Otherwise, we risk looking for other vents and people finding them not in public buildings where decisions are made, but in the streets of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u211	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Veselinov, then Mr. Nenkov, third line, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u212	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, we generally support the idea of publicity and to have an outlet for public tensions, an opportunity for civic control over the work of the energy authorities. However, we will abstain from your text because we believe it is not precise enough. In practice, it remains unknown who are the organizations, the way they form. I think we offer a better text a little later in the proposals under the law. I urge you to support it, because there the powers and the manner of action are more precise. There is representation of all institutions related to the topic. We will create not only a public but also a council with a great expert weight which could have really needed influence and carry out the necessary civic control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u213	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Mr. Nenkov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Ermenkov, I would generally agree with the establishment of public councils, but when we talk about political bodies. This is not the Commission's idea of energy and water regulation. I understand that you, as a person, are not aware of her work and offer such public councils perhaps somewhat populist intentions, but in this case, as members of the Energy Commission, on which one of the main tasks is to make her independent in her decisions, taken not on the basis of the political konncture, but on the pure expertise that she has, to create public councils, without making it clear how they will be formed, what people will be, which non-governmental organizations will participate in them, I consider extremely unproductive. If we make public advice, it should be precisely in the Ministry of Energy, which is a political body. It is also good to have such things in parliament. However, speaking of such a highly specialised committee, with a very serious selection of its commissioners elected by the National Assembly, with an increase in the internship and qualification they should have, I think it is enough for the Commission to work well. I think that such a body, which to me is parasitic, will rather block work than improve its quality and decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u215	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Third line, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Nenkov said part of the motive. On the one hand, we are creating an independent body; on the other hand, we are putting an advisory or public council with the participation of various non-governmental organisations to control and direct the activities of the Commission. Mr. Ermenkov, you are wrong and you are even contradicting yourself by saying, "What's the big deal, he's gonna stand there, he's gonna watch, and he's not gonna have any attitude, he's not gonna make any decisions." If that's how it's gonna be, why would we do that? On the other hand, it's not the way you wrote it in the text. It doesn't say what you said. It says here that, firstly, they are entitled to a deferred vote; secondly, they have the right to request information on technical and economic indicators and so on; thirdly, they may request withdrawal of the licence. What if the withdrawal of the licence occurs if certain conditions are met if there are certain infringements?! In addition, this public council of 100 non-governmental or civil society organisations may at all times request information on the technical and economic indicators and the regulator to sink into providing information to the public council. In our opinion, although the text sounds good on the surface and it is very easy to slide into populism.. Let us make public advice to be more transparent, for more information and we solve the problems within the public council, if we accept it, I fear that we will block the work of the regulator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u217	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u218	My fellow Members, I couldn't understand... I agree with what Mr. Iskren Veselinov said that things are better developed with them. Perhaps if we had limited ourselves to this point, we would have stopped voting on what we were proposing and moved on to a vote on their proposal. Unfortunately, however, the next two lines were against the creation of such a public council, with interesting arguments which somehow came into conflict. Even Mr. Nenkov came into conflict with himself when he defended and said he was proud to be a lobbyist of the Bulgarian economy, but it turns out that it is not pride to be a lobbyist of the Bulgarian people. Is that right?! Because at the moment you do not want through broadcast public council but a way that we may not have really worked out, so I said that Iskren Veselinov is a better proposal for this people to have a look, a completely institutionalized look at the activities of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Otherwise, to accuse ourselves of populism because we protect the interests of the people, and to be proud of populism, that we protect the interests of the big ones, of the big producers, it seems to me that it introduces an imbalance. I am worried that without such a public council, the same imbalance will exist in the decisions of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. This is our only task to balance the interests of industry, production and society, which is the main consumer and whose interests we defend as MPs here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u219	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Enchev, you raised your hand? Come in for a procedure, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u220	Mr. Chairman, I take the floor for a procedure because the same text Mr. Enchev wants to speak is his proposal from page six. If we read the proposal for editing in art. 11 screate a new para. Article 6, and the new Article. 13a, they're word for word the same thing. Looks like they were given from the same place. I find no logic in this.. for a text, which Mr. Enchev said in essence once, now to take the floor and speak again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u221	Thank you. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Dragomir Stoinev, Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev to create a new paragraph to art. 13a. The Commission does not support it. Vote 80 MPs: 11 against 51, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u222	Under § 8 there is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Kiril Tsochev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 14, para. 5 t. 3 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 3. consult non-governmental (civil and branch) organizations by assessing the benefits and harms of their decisions and draft decisions; The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs: In § 8, Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for 1. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The Commission shall carry out its activities in accordance with its powers under this Law, the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests and other national and European regulations relevant to its activity. 2. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The Commission shall respect state policies in the field of energy and general policy guidelines which are not related to its regulatory powers and obligations. 3. A new para is being created. 7. The Commission shall, in the exercise of its regulatory powers and obligations, cooperate with the authorities of the State, local self-government and non-governmental organisations. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Velizar Enchev. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 14 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "general', the words "individual' shall be added. 2. In para. 2 after the words The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Dragomir Stoinev, Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev: In § 8, Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2011 1. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The Commission and its administration shall work in an impartial and transparent manner to ensure that regulatory functions are strictly exercised and that decisions are not subject to market interests or direct instructions given by executive bodies or other public or private persons. 2. Allinea 6 is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u223	Statements? Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u224	Madam President, Madam Minister, colleagues! Why do I suggest adding these two words to the NGO and citizens, NGOs and citizens? Why do I think that in the current text the interests of citizens are not protected in the already mentioned concepts of branch organizations, clients directly related to the draft and consumer organisations? That's why. Under the Energy Act, I don't know if you know citizens who conduct cases in court often, if not always, get the answer that they have no legal interest. The people who pay the bills for electricity and water, it turns out, and this is a legal moral absurdity, they have no legal interest in conducting such cases. You will immediately object to what I said at the beginning, yes, but there is, in the text, why do you propose that NGOs and citizens be involved, when there are such concepts as the "user organisation", the "clients directly related to the project" and the "branch organizations" produced? I will immediately answer you why these so described entities do not express and cannot protect the interests of consumers of electricity, water and water services. First of all, industry organizations, public secret is that they essentially protect the interests of business. Good or bad, but business, not citizens. Often, their interests differ. Secondly, consumer organisations do exist, in many cases they protect the interests of citizens, but it is a public secret that these consumer organisations are financed by either the state or from external factors or both such cases. And there was one case, not to mention the name of a very respected colleague of ours who worked in such a consumer organisation and during the protests against CEZ it turned out that he was the head of this consumer organisation and at the same time was on the salary of the electricity distribution company from the Czech Republic. I think you remember this case very well. Under the Consumer Act, honourable Members, these organisations, called consumers who want to conduct cases, have one requirement that restricts them, and it states that they should have offices throughout the country and other procedural. And when it comes to clients directly related to the draft, these are not citizens. Often these are natural and legal persons. So I ask you to support the inclusion of these two words NGOs and citizens, because, God forbid, each of us, from you tomorrow may find himself in court to sue a water or energy company and to answer that there is no legal interest. This is a proposal in the interests of citizens. And to add something important, to repeat one more time on the third energy package of the European Commission, on a directive adopted by the European Commission in 2009, and to enter into force in 2011, here I am again in favour of Mr. Ermenkov and my old proposal, these committees, state committees for energy and water regulation, or we will not call them state, energy and water regulation committees, must be civil forums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u225	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Kiril Tsochev's proposal. The Commission does not support it. They voted 86 MPs: 18, against 39, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Atalay and a group. The Commission does not support it. 88 MPs voted: 12, against 58, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Stoynev, Ermenkov and Boychev. The Commission does not support it. Vote 82 MPs: 9 against 56, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal. The Commission does not support it. Vote 88 MPs: 11 against 62, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 8 by importer. Vote 88 MPs: for 76, against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u226	Under § 9 there is a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by MPs Ramadan Atalay and group. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The Commission shall publish on its website the proposals of energy undertakings and water operators for price validation together with all output data, the protocols of open and closed meetings and public discussions, the decisions of the Commission, including the way in which the members of the committee voted and the reasons of each vote against, adopted regulations, rules, methodologies and guidelines.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u227	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 9 in its version on the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 87, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u228	Under § 10, there is a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev and a group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Georgi Nedev and group. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 the words "design regulations adopted by the Council of Ministers" shall be replaced by the Rules of Procedure adopted by the National Assembly. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... Article 16 is amended as follows: Art. 16. (1) The Commission shall adopt its Rules of Procedure, which shall be promulgated in the Official Journal. (2) In carrying out its activities the Commission shall be assisted by an administration whose structure and organisation of work shall be determined by the rules of para. 1. (3) The activities of the administration shall be carried out by civil servants and by persons working in the employment relationship. For employees of the employment relationship shall apply art. 107a of the Labor Code. (4) The Law on Administration shall apply to the administration of the Commission, to the extent that nothing else is provided for in this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u229	Statements? Mr Nedev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u230	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Dobrev, in order to save parliamentary time, I would like to withdraw my proposal after consulting my colleagues under § 10, Art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2. Furthermore, the more forthcoming to discuss § 12, art. 20a, para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u231	Thank you, Mr Nedev. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. The unsupported proposal has been withdrawn and the need to put it to a vote is therefore removed. We are voting § 10 in its version on the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 81, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u232	Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: Article 2 is created. 19a: Art. 19a. (1) A Public Advisory Council on Sustainable Energy Development shall be established as a advisory body of the Commission, hereinafter referred to as the Council. 1. The main objectives of the Council are: (a) monitor and propose decisions of the Commission in order to maintain a balance between the interests of consumers and energy companies; (b) assist in ensuring conditions for sustainable development of the energy market by assessing the state and development of the energy system and energy markets in the country and the region; (c) assess the potential impact of external and internal factors on the development of the energy market and the economy and propose solutions to the Commission to optimise them; 2. The members of the Board shall have the right to participate in all open meetings of the committee and of the composition and to deliver an opinion to the Board on the issues discussed. 3. The Council shall have the following tasks: (a) monitor and analyse the systemic risks to the stability of the national energy system and discuss and propose impact measures in the event of a threat to the stability of the energy market or energy crisis; (b) discuss and accept proposals to the Committee to restore the balance of interests of consumers and energy companies, taking into account the technical, legal and socio-economic factors related thereto; (c) propose and participate in discussions on improving the practice of implementing and improving the regulatory framework of energy markets and contribute to improving and enhancing the effectiveness of control over energy market participants; (d) make proposals and recommendations to the Committee on the Protection and Stability of the Energy System, for the prevention and management of energy crises. 4. In the exercise of its powers, the Council shall adopt decisions. Decisions shall be adopted unanimously. (2) The Council shall be entitled to a deferred veto of decisions and administrative acts of the Commission which shall be of particular public interest. 1. The decision to veto shall be adopted unanimously by its members. 2. The decision to veto shall be accompanied by a detailed economic and technical analysis justifying the veto adopted unanimously by the members of the Council. 3. The Commission is obliged to review its decision within 1 month and decide on the reasons for the veto. 4. The Council has the right to appeal decisions of the Commission before the Supreme Administrative Court of Bulgaria on the basis of the analysis of the case. 2. (3) The Council shall be composed of 12 specialists: one representative of the Ombudsman; one representative of two national representative employers' organisations; one representative of two national representative trade unions; one representative of two non-governmental organisations in public benefit and with a long-term commitment in the sector................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1. The members of the Board shall be appointed by order of the Minister of Energy, following a public procedure and an assessment of the qualifications of the proposed representatives corresponding to the requirements of the members of the Commission. 2. The right to propose members of the Council shall have the persons representing the relevant institutions and non-governmental organisations. 3. The composition of the Council shall be kept up to date once a year and new members shall be proposed at the places of those released with justification by the Minister of Energy while maintaining the representativeness of the institutions. 4. Participation in the council is voluntary. The preparation and organisation of the meetings of the Council shall be carried out by the committee. In the performance of its functions, the Council shall be assisted by a Secretary. 5. The Council shall adopt Rules of Procedure. Minutes shall be kept for the meetings of the Council. 6. The Council may set up working groups by attracting external experts. 7. The decision to make public the disclosure of information relating to the work of the Council shall be adopted unanimously. (4) All state authorities and officials shall be obliged to assist the Council within the limits of their powers and to provide it with the necessary information in carrying out its functions. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u233	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u234	Madam President, honourable Members! This is the third consecutive viewing actually of a form of public control. I believe that, in our case, indeed, we have done a great deal of work to do the first, the mechanism that works, the second, is not a mechanism for pure populism, the third, to focus on the professional qualities of the people who will enter this council. And last but not least, to focus on institutional qualities, because you see five representatives of employers' organizations, trade unions, various authorities of the administration, which are related to the field of energy. In addition, the deferred veto in question cannot be arbitrarily imposed and is linked, first, by unanimity in the council, second, with some large, significant public needs, i.e. I believe that here we have a working mechanism where the body is not a body of, how to say, the militant populism, to be professional and at the same time to reflect the need for this Commission, which is to the National Assembly, to have the necessary civil control. I call on you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u235	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 94 MPs: 24, against 18, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u236	According to § 11 the proposal of the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 t. 4 is amended as "4." submit annually to the National Assembly a report on the Commission's activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u237	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 11. Vote 91 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u238	According to § 12 the proposal by the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u239	This proposal will likely be withdrawn. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u240	Colleagues, are you withdrawing this offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u241	It's on p. 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u242	The offer has been withdrawn. There is a proposal from the MP Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs: In § 12, Article 12 is replaced by the following: 20th para. 1 is amended as follows: The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall adopt in general composition: 1. The rules of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. annual budget, financial statement and report of its activity The Commission does not support the proposal. The next proposal is from the MP Georgi Nedev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 12 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u243	Statements? I won't. [[Heckling]] Fine, we'll vote on it if you don't withdraw it and you care about it. Any other MPs? I won't. We're closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Stoynev, Ermenkov and Boychev, which the Commission does not support. Vote 87 MPs: 14 against 61 abstentions 12. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 12 by importer. Vote 92 MPs: 77 against 5, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u244	Under § 13 there is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in art. 13, para. 2. Proposal from the MPs Georgi Nedev and group: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 21 t. 21 is amended as follows: ..21. determine the availability for electricity generation of producers from which the public supplier to buy electricity, with the exception of highly efficient cogeneration of electricity and heat from producers under art. 162, as well as the amount of electricity in line with which the public supplier to enter into transactions with final suppliers. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u245	We're pulling him out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u246	The whole proposal is withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 13, which becomes § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In the text before t. 1 the words The State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall be replaced by the Energy and Water Regulatory Board. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 32 the words "reports" shall be replaced by "reports" and "reports" shall be replaced by the words
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u247	Statements? Here you go, Mr Nedev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u248	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Manufacturers of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration of heat shall not be available within the meaning of art. 21, t. 21 and for them the State Commission does not determine such by virtue of the powers granted to it. According to the provisions of art. 162, para. 1 the high-performance electrical energy produced by them shall be bought out mandatory. We are making this proposal because we believe that any other action would lead to a breach of the licensing obligations of companies producing heat and electricity that provide a service of public interest and ensure the supply, continuity and quality of energy supplied to consumers. We demand that this be.. they be separated as a specific type of energy producers... electricity and heat at the same time. Moreover, the recording in art. 21 corresponds directly to art. 93 we haven't looked at yet. Everything must be very clear there, since it is a public supplier's action against energy producers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u249	Thank you, Mr Nedev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? There aren't any. Debates closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Nedev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 92 MPs: 11 against 54, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. There's been a withdrawal. We are voting on the Commission proposal for § 12 on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 83 against 4, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u250	Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and group. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in art. 13, para. 2. Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. We withdraw this offer. Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 26 is created. 3 and 4: The Commission's budget is part of the state budget and is drawn up, implemented and accounted for under the Public Finance Act. (4) The Commission's budget should ensure its independence and administrative capacity and, as a result, its ability to carry out its duties, as amended by national and European legislation, effectively. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MP Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs: A new paragraph is being created: ............................................... Article 26 is amended as follows: 1. A new para is being created. 1: The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall have its own budget. 2. So far, the Al. 1 becomes para. 2. 3. So far, the Al. 2 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Dragomir Stoinev, Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create new § 13, 14 and 15: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 1, t. 2 the word "Twenty" is replaced by "Twenty" is replaced by "Twenty." § 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31a, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 after the word "supplier" is added as necessary and after the word "supplier" is added no more often than once in a calendar quarter. § 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words "al." 2, p. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 2. Allinea 4 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u251	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are taking a serious step with the decision to elect the Commission and the Commissioners by the National Assembly. Colleagues, if we do not resolve the budgetary issue, this will in no way affect its efficiency in work and we cannot say that an independent regulator can be effective and useful if its capacity and independence are not budgetaryly bound. That was the point of our proposal. In the working group, we were told that the Commission cannot have a separate Constitutional budget. Yeah, of course, she's a top executive. Its budget is a separate part of the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. I wish, in making this debate today, that we could unite around the clear understanding that the current situation in which we have delegated an opportunity to the Commission to fix and collect fees, the revenue is about 12 million, at the same time with the vote and adoption of the 2015 budget, we are giving less than 4 million. You can understand that we can't have any serious expectations about her work. She's got cases to run. I can give an example of the procedure for withdrawing a licence with electricity supply companies. You know, on one side stand the Commission's lawyers -- you know what their remuneration is, on the other side stand law firms, big companies, and you can see that we cannot expect a serious result in this regard. That is why I wish with today's debate and vote the National Assembly would clearly show its commitment to ensuring the work of the Commission. In this regard, I believe that if you do not support our proposal, the editing is good and I would support, I would also ask my colleagues to support, the proposal of colleagues Iskren Veselinov, Hristo Mitev and Valentin Kasabov. There is also an acceptable way of describing these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u253	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? Mr. Nenkov for a line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Boychev, I absolutely agree with you. Of course, in order for the Commission to be what we want it to be, and to work as an expert, to be able to do its job, of course, that its financial security must be at a sufficiently good level. There are several conventions on what you offer. First of all, it is clear that under the Constitution it is written which bodies can have their own budget. Moreover, in our proposal, we are really giving a step forward in making the Commission itself better financially supported, as we are changing the current 20% by 30% of the revenue it collects per year.. You said below how oriented they are, will remain in the Commission's budget and it will have the opportunity to spend them. This is certainly a good incentive for the Commission itself to do its job more effectively. We are also talking about sanctions, we are also talking about licences, so I think this is a good incentive for the Commission. Last but not least, we, as MPs, vote each year on the State Budget Act and in the draft budget itself, we can make changes and amendments, so that we can make the Commission's budget times greater than it is for 2015. There are enough mechanisms, we should not break the rules of the Constitution and in the 2016 budget if we see that the Commission cannot comply for objective reasons with its commitments, the necessary adjustments can be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u255	Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Boychev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u256	Mr. Nenkov, this is precisely why I was speaking here today, in this Chamber, in order to have the opportunity, life and health when a budget for 2016 is adopted, to remind you of these words of yours and this declared support for the Commission budget. [[Noise and lines.]] That is why I raise this issue here, because by voting on the budget proposed by the government for 2015, you have in no way expressed this attitude, despite our proposal made to increase the budget of the State Commission for Energy and Water Regulation, and I will remind you next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u257	Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, vote on the proposal by Iskren Veselinov, Christian Mitev, Valentin Kasabov, Polina Karastoyanova and Dimitar Bajraktarov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 24, against 16, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Dragomir Stoinev's proposal, Tasco Eremenkov and Zhelyo Boychev, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 79 MPs: 14 against 47, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is Dragomir Stoinev, Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev, which is generally supported by the Commission and the Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 13, 14 and 15 with the content reported by the President of the Commission. Please vote for the contents of the three new paragraphs They voted 83 MPs: 64, against 1, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. You have the floor to re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u258	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues. Because we have extended our time and some Members have not understood that we are continuing to work, so I hope we will hold a new vote with which we will be able to reach the quorum. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u259	I'm going to rethink paragraphs 13, 14 and 15. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, this is the Commission's proposal, I announced it before the vote. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u260	Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36a, para. 3 the words in the mass media shall be replaced by the words on their website.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u261	There are no other proposals. Vote § 16. Vote 91 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u262	Proposal from the MP Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs. The Commission shall support the proposal under art. 38f, para. Art. 1, art. 38g, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 38z, para. 1 and does not support it in the rest. I read the unsupported proposals: I'm sorry, I'm In Chapter 3, Section VI is created. Art. 38a. 38h: (2) In the cases under para. 1 The operator of the distribution network or distribution network may request the metrological expertise of the means of commercial measurement of the client from the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology under the order of Chapter 5 of the Law on Measurements. The commercial measuring tool is dismantled and stored by the operator, which ensures its dispatch to the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology, sealed with the seals and stickers recorded in the constant protocol drawn up at the disassembly. The cost of metrology expertise of the commercial measuring instrument shall be borne by the operator. The operator shall notify the client of the outcome of the examination. (3) In the case of an expert finding a malfunction of the commercial measuring instrument, the final supplier shall refund to the customer the amount calculated on the basis of the electricity or natural gas consumed for a previous period, but not more than the time until the last date of the metrology expertise of the commercial measuring instrument. Art. 38g. (1) The final supplier shall not be entitled to suspend the supply of electricity or natural gas to the customer upon challenge by the customer of the value of the electricity or natural gas account until the verification has been completed. The customer is obliged to pay the remaining obligations which are not the subject of the challenge. (4) In the event of breach of the quality and reliability conditions of the supply of electricity or natural gas for a period longer than 10 days in one calendar month, as demonstrated by proper recording apparatus installed at the measurement site, the customer shall not pay the amounts for the electricity or natural gas consumed for the month concerned. The distribution or distribution network operator shall pay compensation for any damage that the customer has suffered from a poor supply of electricity or natural gas. Requests for compensation shall be made within 60 days of the occurrence of the event. The client may also file the claim for damages to a court of law. (5) The operator of the distribution or distribution network shall not be entitled to draw up protocols to correct the quantities of measured electricity or natural gas without the presence of the customer or of a designated person. Art. 38z. (2) In the cases under para. 1 upon termination of the supply of electricity or natural gas due to failure to pay under a contract for the sale of electricity or natural gas, the operator of the distribution or distribution network shall recover the supply after payment and without additional payment of a refund price. The repayment of the supply shall be made within 6 hours of the submission of a request for it within the working day, but not later than 12 hours on the following day. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. In Chapter 3, Section VI is created. 38f, 38g and 38h: Art. 38f. The final supplier shall inform the customer, together with the invoice for the last month of each six-month period, where the reported electricity or natural gas consumption of the final customers for that six-month period is higher by more than 50 percent of the reported consumption for the respective six-month period of the previous calendar year. Art. 38g. (1) The client may request the distribution or distribution network operator to carry out a metrology analysis of the commercial measuring instrument. The expertise is carried out by the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology under Chapter 5 of the Law on Measurements. The commercial measuring tool is dismantled and stored by the operator, which ensures its dispatch to the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology, sealed with the seals and stickers recorded in the constant protocol drawn up at the disassembly. (2) The costs of metrology expertise of the commercial measuring instrument shall be borne by: 1. the operator of the distribution system, respectively of the distribution network, in case the expertise proves a failure of the commercial measuring instrument; 2. the customer, in case the expertise proves the performance of the commercial measuring instrument. Art. 38z. Where, at the initiative of the final supplier, the supply of electricity or natural gas to the customer will be suspended, the final supplier shall notify the customer, in a manner which it so requests, no later than three days before the date of termination of the supply. In the event that the customer has not stated a way of notification, it shall be notified in a manner determined by the final supplier.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u263	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. I suggest we take a break by 3 p.m. and then you will hear the arguments of the importers of the proposal. Holiday till 3:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u264	Dear Members of Parliament, please take your seats in the Chamber. We're continuing the hearing. I've announced Mr. Boychev has a say in this. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, and let there be no standing in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I know that today has become quite long as a job, but we are now perhaps one of the main members that we are changing in the Energy Act, namely the texts concerning the rights of ordinary, end users, a battle which I would say we representatives of the BSP are fighting in the past National Assembly. I am glad that the working group, I can say, has supported half of our proposals. Therefore, the supported proposals will not comment, but I will allow myself to put three of the unsupported proposals to your attention and ask them to be supported. What's this about? In our numerous meetings with the citizens, we are very often asked about a vicious practice to draw up the so-called "constructive protocols" by which to adjust the amount of measured, if we give the example of electricity, to talk about it without the end user attending. You do understand that we are in an extremely strange situation where the given commercial measuring device is owned by the electricity supply company? To a very large extent, citizens do not even know where it is and, to a small extent, they do not have access to and to witness situations where someone draws up constructive protocols without their presence, and then this is calculated in their accounts. I believe that this does not have any analogy with any legal and legal logic. So my request is that you support this proposal of ours. Our other proposal, which the working group has not supported, concerns the possibility that the operator that restores electricity will be able to charge again. We wanted to cancel this fee, even more already there is a judgment of the Plovdiv Court in the direction that the electricity supply company unduly charged this service. For fellow Members who are concerned that this would be passed on as a price to others, the correct consumers, I would like to say that the regulator may not recognise this cost. Another important proposal, which you have not considered, concerns the granting of more rights again to the ordinary, to the end-user, to have the opportunity to make a claim regarding the quality of the service provided. I can give an example of my electoral area - 23. Election area in Sofia, where I have been asking the question since last year, and the media have already made it widely available with Lozen. You can see that there we are literally like the disco the current stops several times a day. The problem with people is that the blackout leads to the water shutting down, and then the pumps stop. It is quite normal for these people to have the opportunity to present and state their claim. It is quite normal for them to have the possibility of compensation in this matter. I know that many of you will answer me that in the general terms of the treaties there are a number of such options, but with the Law we not only extend them but oblige them. Separately, we also want the time limit for submitting these claims to be increased. My request is that these three substantial amendments, which will largely balance the relationship between large energy supply companies and end-users, be supported. I think this will be a very strong sign to society and will be a very strong incentive to restore trust, which is key to getting out of the difficult situation in which Bulgarian energy is located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u266	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Are there any lines to the statement? Apparently he was convincing Mr. Boychev, no objection to his thesis. Are there any other statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev in the part which is not supported by the Commission, you have the opportunity to do so. Vote! Vote 80 MPs: 21, against 49, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u267	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u268	Mr. Tasco Ermenkov for revoting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u269	Guys, I'm not messing with you. My request is, however, that we vote on such things relating to the interests of consumers, that we first include some sympathy for them, and, secondly, that we still increase the quorum a little, because we are making important decisions at the border of this quorum. That's it! Thank you. [[GERB lines.]] How was the National Assembly in the past whose concern is the quorum?! [[Laughter and excitement from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u270	Please re-vote the same text. They voted 83 MPs: 20, against 51, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 17. They voted 83 MPs: 77, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev, for the next text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u271	Proposal by the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create new § 18 and 19: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39, para. 4 is created t. 5. It's five o'clock. electricity generation for own consumption only. § 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 40th para The licence referred to in Article 1 (2) (a) shall be issued by the competent authority of the Member State in which the licence was issued. 39, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 shall also be issued to a person who has been granted a concession or has the right to use and operate on energy sites for the production, transport and distribution of heat under the conditions of para. 1.... 6..........................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u272	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. Vote the proposals made to create new paragraphs 18 and 19. Vote 80 MPs: 77, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u273	Proposal from the MP Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs: New paragraphs shall be created: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53, para. 1 sentences are created second, third and fourth. The deal of an order is made in writing with a notary endorsement of the signatures of the representatives of the parties. It shall be accompanied by an inventory of the assets according to accounting data. In the case of incompleteness or error in the description relevant to the acquisition of the property is the actual use of certain property to carry out the activity of the licence. §... Article 55, para. 1 is amended as follows: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the words "including in the case of the transfer of the property with which the licence activity is carried out, under the conditions of art. 53 are deleted; 2. A new t. is created. 5. It's five o'clock. in the case of the transfer of the property with which the licence activity is carried out. §... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: If the licence holder fails to fulfil his obligations under para. 3 or the commission did not authorize the deal of an order, the commission appoints a special governor with powers under para. 6 which continues on behalf of and on behalf of the licence holder to carry out the licensing activity until the transfer of ownership of the energy sites and the designation of a new licence holder. Where more than one person is appointed as a special manager, they shall exercise their powers jointly unless the committee decides otherwise. 2. In para. 5 the word "supplier' is deleted; 3. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The special manager represents the licencer and has the powers of its managing bodies, but can alienate and burden real estate burdens, conclude contracts for special pledges, conclude pledges of property through which the licence activity is carried out, conclude credit agreements, assume memento obligations, secure foreign liabilities and carry out other actions and transactions referred to in the decision on his appointment, only after prior authorisation of the commission. He is solely responsible for damage caused by him intentionally. The special manager shall have a right to: 1. of unlimited access and control of the premises of the licencer, accounting and other documentation, his property and subsidiaries, and at his request the prosecution and the authorities of the Ministry of Interior shall assist him in doing so; 2. terminate the authority of all persons who may undertake or carry out any action on behalf of and on behalf of the licencer and authorise other persons; 3. to terminate payments, regardless of their grounds, to shareholders, partners or related persons with the licencer, as well as payments to administrators, other than due remuneration or remuneration for the services of the licencer carried out by them at his request; 4. to convene meetings of the licensing authorities on a given agenda; 5. to access all documents for the meetings of the licensing authorities, to attend these meetings and to propose the inclusion of issues on the agenda; 6. to entrust a specialised internal audit service to carry out checks on issues identified by it; 7. to change the order of entry into the premises and premises of the licencer; 8. to change passwords to access the licenser's computers and to provide access only to a limited number of employees; 9. issue a new type of omissions for entry into the premises of the licensing officer to authorised employees and control the access of other employees to those premises. 4. In para. 7 the word "supplier' is deleted; 5. In para. 8 the word "supplier" shall be deleted and after the words "supplier of an order under para." If they do not enter into the transaction within three months of the entry of the special manager in the trade register, it shall be concluded by him at a price not lower than that set by independent valuers under art. 5 of the Independent Evaluators Act appointed by the Commission. In cases referred to in art. Art. 57, para.2, and Art. 57, para. 59, para. The six-month period referred to in the preceding sentence shall start from the entry into force of the decision of the Commission on the designation of a new licence holder. In such cases, the special manager shall conclude the transaction at the cost of the acquisition of the property by which the licence activity as defined in the decision of the Commission for the designation of a new licence holder is carried out. 6. In para. 11: (a) in the text before t. 1 the word "supplier' is deleted and the word "supplier' is replaced by the words "supplier'; (b) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." not to be located with the licencer, a member of his management and control bodies, with persons holding more than 5 per cent of his capital, and with his debtor or creditor, in relations that give rise to reasonable doubt about his §... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 56, para. 4, 5, 6,7, 9 56, para. 4............................................... §... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59, para. 1 is created a new t. 5. It's five o'clock. in the event of a systematic violation of the conditions for continuity of electricity supply and supply of natural gas, as well as the quality of electricity or natural gas supplied. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u274	Thank you. Will you justify your proposal? No. We are going to vote on the proposal, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 87 MPs: 13 against 55, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u275	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from MP Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the words The State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall be replaced by the Energy and Water Regulatory Board. 2. They're creating an al. 3, 4, 5 and 6: In the case of an entity that is not a financial institution, the entity shall be considered to be a financial institution within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and shall not be considered to be an undertaking within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 1 which do not invest at their sites are obliged to make monthly contributions to an account.. National Investment (4) The contributions under para. 3 shall be set at one twelfth of the calculated annual contribution to be determined for each calendar year as a product of the reference price per tonne of emissions and the free allowances foreseen for the operator for the same year. The contribution shall be recalculated when the reference price per tonne of emissions changes. (5) The contributions under para. 3 shall be imported up to the 15th number of the current month. Legal interest is due for non-payments. (6) The contributions under para. 3 are public government claims. Unpaid contributions shall be subject to enforcement by a public contractor under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. The act establishing the claim shall be issued by the Minister of Energy or by an official authorised by him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u276	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. Ramadan Atalay's proposal and a group of MPs has been withdrawn, we will not vote on it. We are going to vote on the generally supported text of the importer and the Commission's proposal for the version of § 14, which becomes § 20. Vote 98 MPs: 93, none, abstention 5. Text accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u277	Proposal by the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 80a: Art. 80a. (1) The authorities of the State Financial Inspection Agency shall carry out ex post controls on energy undertakings engaged in regulated activities, including at preferential electricity prices. The control shall cover their financial and accounting activities at regulated prices, including preferential prices. (2) They shall not be subject to control under para. 1 power generators holding a power plant with a total installed electrical power of up to 1.5 MW. (3) Energy enterprises under para. 1 to which the State Financial Inspection Act applies shall be subject annually to control by the authorities of the State Financial Inspection Agency within the framework of a financial inspection. (4) Energy enterprises under para. 1 to which the State Financial Inspection Act does not apply, shall be subject annually to control by the authorities of the State Financial Inspection Agency by means of follow-up checks. (5) The order to carry out an inspection by the bodies of the Agency for State Financial Inspection shall be issued by the Director of the Agency or by officials authorised by it and shall not be subject to appeal. (6) The Minister of Energy may request the Agency for State Financial Inspection to carry out a financial inspection or subsequent verification on a specific case. (7) When carrying out the checks under para. 4 authorities of the State Financial Inspection Agency shall be entitled to: 1. of free access to the checked object; 2. verify all documentation relating to the financial and accounting activity at regulated prices, including preferential prices; 3. to request from officials in the sites examined documents, information and references in relation to the verification. (8) The persons in the sites examined shall be obliged to assist the authorities of the Agency for State Financial Inspection, to provide free access to the premises and to all documentation and to provide within the prescribed time limits the necessary documents, information and references relating to the inspection. The documents in a foreign language are presented together with certified translation in Bulgarian. Persons shall not be entitled to refuse access to information by referring to their or foreign trade or banking secrecy, as well as to information classified as state or official secrecy, subject to the Classified Information Protection Act. (9) When carrying out the checks, the authorities of the Agency for State Financial Inspection shall be obliged to: 1. shall be legitimised with an official card and an order to carry out the inspection; 2. reflect accurately the results of the control activity; 3. do not disclose or disseminate information that has become known to them in carrying out the checks. (10) For the results of an inspection, the authorities of the State Financial Inspection Agency shall draw up a report containing the findings which have been made, supported by evidence. (11) The report under para. 10 shall be served on the person representing the energy undertaking. After service of the report, the person may give a written opinion within 14 days of service. The authorities of the Agency for State Financial Inspection shall deliver a reasoned written conclusion within 7 days of receipt of the opinion. (12) In the case of evidence of a criminal offence, the material of the inspection shall be sent to the Prosecutor's Office. (13) The report under para. 10 together with the reasoned written conclusion and the written opinion under para. 11 shall be sent within 7 days of its preparation to the Minister of Energy and to the Commission. (14) The report under para. 10 together with the reasoned written conclusion and the report on the financial inspection carried out under para. 3 together with the reasoned written conclusion shall be published on the website of the State Financial Inspection Agency within 7 days of the conclusion being drawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u278	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u279	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, a question that is more relevant to lawyers. We will support the proposed paragraph, but I would like to ask a question, could the Minister of Energy directly ask the Agency for State Financial Inspection to carry out checks, or should we still write down the Minister of Finance to comply with the hierarchy?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u280	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u281	To keep the chain of command, not for anything else. I'm asking purely legal if it's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u282	Maybe.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u283	If I may, there's no problem. That was my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u284	Mr. Ermenkov, there is no legal hierarchy between the members of the cabinet, but functionally whether it is necessary in any case. This is at least legally not necessary, so there is no contradiction, a matter of appropriateness. Would you like some, Mrs. Petkova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, on the occasion of what you are worried about, just to clarify the following, it is not necessary to explicitly state that the award of these checks should be done through the Minister of Finance, as this is a special power, which is regulated by the Energy Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u286	Any other questions? Mr. Simeonov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u287	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Colleagues and Members of the National Assembly! With the apology of the Members of the Commission, I will again put to debate and vote in the House an editorial amendment in para. 2 which states that "They are not subject to control under para. 1 power generators holding a power plant with its own installed electrical power up to 1,5 megawatts shall be 1 megawatt.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u288	Up to one, huh?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u289	Up to one, that's right. This is my editorial amendment. However, from the information we received from the Ministry of Energy, it is about 200 or 300, 380 such sites, which may also be subject to inspection. Otherwise, there is little doubt, a suspicion mainly of the opposition, which I am sure will support my proposal, in the great gap and the great opening of the scissors between the first proposal, which is for checks on over 200 kilowatts, and this proposal only 1.5 megawatts. A very large number of power generators will be exempted from such an annual inspection. That's my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u290	Okay, Mr. Simeonov. It's an editorial proposal. I'll put it to the vote. Mrs. Petkova, do you have any motives towards the border? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Simeonov, as we had the opportunity to comment during the Energy Commission, when we discussed the Draft Law, then one reason was that the Agency for State Financial Inspection does not have the administrative capacity that would allow it to cover, we are talking about quality verification so that it can cover all these energy enterprises that are slightly above 380. That was one of the main arguments. We're talking about annual control here, after all. This is a commitment that the Agency will take and must fulfil. Each year, it must provide the resource, both administrative and financial, so that it can check all these energy enterprises. And the goal is to check them quality. But it takes time and resources. From that point of view, that was our opinion on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u292	Thanks for the clarification. Mr. Dimitrov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u293	Dear colleagues, I would like to support my colleague Valeri Simeonov with a very important argument. The task force had suggested that 1 megawatt should be the subject of control, i.e. everything above 1 megawatt. And during the discussion in the Commission, there was a proposal to raise this threshold. That is, since the working group involving representatives of the Ministry of Energy, representatives of parliament initially had this idea and supported it, clearly has the capacity to implement it. So I think it makes sense that those of us who want more energy control to stand by this proposal. Further, colleagues, very briefly, I will propose, but not now, based on selections these under 1 megawatt also be subject to control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u294	There's this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u295	My colleague Dobrev told me that this text is on the table, and now we're going to discuss it. It is only right that we tighten our energy control seriously. So in the proposal of colleague Valeri Simeonov, it is not about something that has not been discussed. On the contrary, this was the task force's proposal. It was supported by everyone and then, because of the concern of colleagues during the meeting itself, that too many businesses were covered, the threshold increased. However, colleagues, if we want increased control, the proposal for 1 megawatt is a good proposal and should be supported. I'm done here because we've got a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u296	Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u297	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! However, from the National Assembly's stand, the thesis of the snapshot or the current state of the Agency for State Financial Inspection was expressed as a capacity. This law, you don't think it will operate within this year and next year we will check whether the Agency has capacity? It's not a problem for us as MPs if it has a capacity. I believe that the proposal sounds quite reasonable and reasoned in this regard. 2 s 1.5 megawatt is to be translated into 1 megawatt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u298	Thank you. Any other speeches? Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u299	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the arguments that we want as much serious, substantial control in energy as possible are valid. However, the question arises: when we propose that the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission or the Energy Regulatory Commission have monthly control over everything that is happening, do not accept it? Why don't you want us to load the Energy Control Commission on a monthly audit of the ERPs, except for electricity supply companies and 200-kilowatt photovoltaics? Why don't you want to do everything that happened to the wind generators: from 250 to 200 kilos up? Why, Mr. Martin Dimitrov, along with the President, are you still defending the RES, the photovoltaics and not saying you don't want them controlled, but you're going out and here you're saying "1 megawatt," looking at the ceiling? And then I asked you, why, colleagues, 1 megawatt? Why isn't it 200 kilos? Why isn't it 250? Why not 30 kilos up? You have no argument! The only argument you have in mind is that the DPS offered up to 1.5 megawatts because the DPS proposed it, we are against it! It's about energy. If you want the financial inspection to be substantial and to carry out the controls, talk to the Deputy Minister of Finance. They offer from 5 megawatts up to make the essential control. Isn't that right, Madam Secretary? [[A confirmation sign from Minister Temenuzhka Petkova.]] Well, then don't be quiet! You want 1 megawatt to increase the number of all energy or those companies that are included can not be controlled properly! Let's load them up with such an impossible task! That's why, colleagues, such an emotional exit of the stands I want from 1 megawatt, I want 1.5 megawatts; I don't want because Atalay suggested it, it's not serious. Mr. Dimitrov, it's not serious. Mr. Dimitrov, I normally know you're a serious man, but not in the gym. Colleagues, if GERB decides that 1.5 megawatts is not necessary, you have a proposal of 200 kilos! Take 200 kilos! Or if you want to be serious and judge that logic, philosophy, everything that goes in this law, to accept it as the Minister, the President of the Commission and the majority of the Commission have accepted it, maintain the proposal that has been adopted. As you wish. But if he's going to go under and not take 1.5 megawatts, I'd suggest we go down to 200 kilos, even 30 kilos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u300	Mr. Atalay, you're not proposing now. Then we will vote on the available proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u301	I'm waiting for Mr. Delyan Dobrev, I'm waiting for Minister Petkova, I'm waiting for the energyists from this room to take a stand...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u302	Then in the form of a line you will make your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u303	...I want the DFI to enter the controls from 30 kilos per five kilos on the rooftops. Mr. Velchev came out and said that there was a conflict of interest. Of course he presented it ironically with the 5 kilos. Under the Law of Conflict of Interest, anyone who drives a car should not vote under the Law of Road Traffic, not to mention hunters.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u304	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. The line, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u305	Dear Mr. Atalay, honourable Members, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Chairman! My proposal is not based on any emotion, and it would be good to discuss, replicate or comment on proposals, based on arguments rather than qualifications. I can recall the Commission knows, but the House does not know that the proposal of 1 megawatt to become 1.5 was yours and no one in the Commission accused you that this is some emotional proposal of yours. You've been accused of some possible lobbying, but that doesn't really matter. What matters is the arguments in the defence of a proposal. It was no accident that I asked the honourable Minister what an estimated number of producers of such electricity was involved. We've received information. Naturally, we could also go to 200 kilos, as is the original proposal. I am making a proposal for 1 megawatt, as I believe that this number of 380, 350 s does not matter how many checks can be carried out, carried out at the cost of an increase in the respective composition of the Commission, which will check the Financial Commission. That could happen. As a businessman, unlike you as politicians, one thing I've understood in my life is that when you get a tax check, they can't help but come up with some kind of act and some money. I am sure that as much as the number increases, and it will not be much, wages will be covered, expenditure will be covered, and serious funds will take place in the state budget. Otherwise, I'm willing to discuss even a lower limit, but I wouldn't dare do it, as you say, under emotion, spontaneously. I would first listen to the capacities on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u306	Thank you. Another line? I won't. A hole? I won't. Statements? Mr. Nikolov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I'm just trying to figure out what this is about. ADFI (State Financial Inspection Agency) will enter these energy enterprises entering the energy mix and will check the costs they have declared to the SEWRC. Since the SEWRC does not have the opportunity to check whether these costs are real, it will work with documents. And since this isn't just about RES, we're talking about everyone who enters this energy mix, this is where the co-generations come in, not just government, but private. The NPP of Kozloduy, the TPP of Maritsa East 2 and all the enterprises that are in this energy mix and which have declared specific costs are entering respectively. If you ask for the cost of a 1 megawatt photovoltaic, who knows how much ADPI won't be difficult. But private cogeneration, which costs a lot of money, I'm sure it'll take a lot of time. So there's a big difference between different objects. If we get into this controversy, we can measure our energy objects, basically, we can create a pretty big problem, and we want to check them out in a year! In fact, what will be found in renewables? There, the costs they will show to ADFI will not correct their prices, but this will enable us to analyse whether these costs determine the return that the SEWRC has given them! From then on, we will probably follow our actions on the basis of this analysis. While in other enterprises where a price is set by the SEWRC each year, on the basis of these analyses, prices can be adjusted, justified assumptions can also arise for crimes! So we don't need to measure exactly how much it is here. The Minister is competent enough, she was the Chairman of ADFI I think she will say what the capacity for this year is at least or the next time we will do this analysis to be complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u308	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. There are no lines. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. As a result of this discussion, an editorial proposal was made by Mr. Valeri Simeonov, which we will first vote on in § 21, para. 2 the number..1,5. to be replaced by.1.... to 1 megawatt........................................................................................................... Please vote. They voted 104 MPs: 75 against 11, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. We are now going to vote on the whole § 21, as proposed by the Commission, with the change already voted on. [[Noise and lines.]] You want a reword, Mr. Atalay? [[National Representative Ramadan Atalay speaks away from the microphones.]] I specifically asked if you were proposing. You said you'd judge. Now what do you want to make an offer on? We're going to vote on the whole text, aren't we? I therefore reminded you, if you have a suggestion, to do so in speech or to use a line. Now to what do you propose? [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, but the text is accepted. Mr. Atalay, what I can do is put the adopted text to a reword, and if it is not accepted, then I can propose your proposal for 200 megawatts because, given that there is an adopted proposal for 1 megawatt, there is no way we can vote for 200 kilos. Would you like a re-vote? Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u309	Colleagues, I propose a re-vote because what Mr. Nikolov just said from this tribune, his opinion was that what will be checked so far, the mandatory check is for all electricity producers. At the moment, with the adoption of the.200 kilos, we will come down and include those photovoltaic plants, which are actually the backbone through which the shortage or hole in the National Electricity Company comes. If that's what you don't want us to control, if you don't want the photovoltaics to control, then that's not necessary. [[Noise and lines.]] The financial inspection can at any time go and enter the other institutions without writing in this Law. Better drop that text then. That's why I'm telling you, colleagues, my suggestion is: re-vote, if not accepted, then I'll know that you didn't want us to come down and check the photovoltaics. Thank you. [[Mister Temenuzhka Petkova wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u310	Mrs. Petkova, this is a re-election procedure. Let us vote on the text and then I will give you the floor. I would like to re-vote the proposal to change the number..1,5.... 1.................................................................................................................... what we have Please vote. They voted 106 MPs: 97, against 5, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, as I will be the last person to want to remain a hint of doubt regarding the control to be carried out, I will allow myself to share with you the following. Since the Ministry of Energy will prepare a text and a proposal by which we could offer your attention in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Energy Efficiency Act to change and to propose a text that, on the basis of a risk assessment, could be subject to verification of all energy enterprises, regardless of the relevant kilowatts, megawatts and so on, so that if it would calm down passions, the Ministry of Energy would make such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u312	Thank you for your clarification. We are now left to vote on the Commission's proposal to create § 21 with the editorial change made. Please vote. They voted 102 MPs: 93, none, abstentioned 9. The text of § 21 has been adopted. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u313	A proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs has been made. A proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev and a group of Members of Parliament "The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Nedev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 84, para. 6, p. 1 after the words "Section VII" shall be added, or as a result of contracts concluded on the balancing energy market in accordance with the rules laid down in art. Reg. 91, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Nedev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 84 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is added at the end. 2. In para. 6, p. 2 after the words "Operative control" "real-time data transmission" is added for the production of heat and electricity. 3. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The conditions and manner of fulfilling the obligations under para. 6 shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Energy
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u314	Thank you. One of the importers of a proposal? Here you go, Mr Nedev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u315	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I want to justify the recording that we offer in art. 84, para. 6, p. 2. In general, it has been adopted by the Commission in principle, but from the recording that the Commission offers to our attention, things are different from what we propose. We are talking about the following: we do not believe that it is permissible for the transmission operator and electricity distribution network operators to regulate the electrical and heat loads of all plants, especially those producing combined electricity and heat, and that it is not only acceptable that they will not meet the requirements for determining efficiency on an annual basis, because this is now being done in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, but will also create conditions for causing damage to cogeneration plants, because there will be interference with their technological regimes and will call into question the implementation of their commitments to society. I also stress the concern that the introduction of such a right of operators to assess the type of electricity and heat produced in addition to the continuing practices of the public provider to restrict registered schedules for the production of electricity from combined power plants will strengthen the availability of restrictive and concerted practices between the transmission network operator and a person trading in electricity. In fact, the limits of those powers of the control operator, which may be exercised by it, relate to the requirements of EC Directive 2009/72, of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity. This Directive sets out absolutely prohibitive rules for transmission system operators to carry out any activities related to intervention in production relations, additional requirements and guarantees for their functional independence from vertically integrated undertakings are also the obligations of those operators to be separated and independent of the activities relating to the production and supply of electricity respectively. And while the transmission of online data for the production of electricity is really necessary for the transmission network operator, as it has the task of regulating the production of electricity so that the grid has no problems, given its functions, the transmission of online data for the production of heat comes into conflict with at least two motives. The first is that the State Commission determines on an annual basis the efficiency of production and no one can hourly, every minute or 15 minutes say whether a certain producer of electricity and heat simultaneously produces high efficiency or does not produce high efficiency. Then the heat, respectively the electricity loads of these manufacturers, strongly depend on the weather conditions. So heat loads also determine the electrical load. In addition, the requirements of the Law relating to the procedures for certification of energy from high-efficiency cogeneration are laid down in art. 21 and it does not follow those powers of the independent state authority "the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission' to be delegated to a trading company whose objectives are to ensure transparent and non-discriminatory access to the electricity supply network of the electricity produced in compliance with security requirements. That is why we support our proposal under this article, para. 6, p. 2 to transmit online data, but for electricity produced, which will fully coincide with the functions and principles for regulating the production of electricity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u316	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Georgi Nedev and a group of MPs given at the beginning of page 54 of the report, which the Commission does not support. Please vote. They voted 92 MPs: 10, against 55, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. Vote 97 MPs: 87, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u317	Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92 is created. ..10. a stock market operator for electricity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u318	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal for § 23 reported by Mr. Dobrev. Vote 96 MPs: 90, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u319	Proposal from the MPs Georgi Nedev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 93a para. 3 is amended as follows: In the cases referred to in para. 2 The public supplier shall determine the hourly quantities per day for each of the plants with a specified availability by the Commission, with the exception of producers of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration, taking into account the production characteristics of their aggregates, the estimated operating modes and the forecasts of the final suppliers, and the quantities thus determined are mandatory for the producers. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 24 and 25: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100, para. 1 after the words the last call is placed comma and the exchange market operator of electricity is added. § 25. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 102 the following additions are made: 1. In the text before t. 1 after the words the last call is placed comma and the exchange market operator of electricity is added. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 after the words the final suppliers of electricity shall be commaed and added to the stock market of electricity. 3. A t is created. 4. "4." inform the participants of the transactions concluded on the organised market.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u320	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of MP Georgi Nedev and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 14 against 78, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u321	I now put to the vote the Commission proposal for paragraphs 24 and 25 with the content of the Commission report. Vote 98 MPs: 93 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u322	Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Nedev and a group supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to establish § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 119, para. 2 shall be added at the end, and in this case the means of commercial measurement shall be constructed and installed at the expense of the manufacturer or the trader and shall be owned.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u323	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 26 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 101 MPs: 92, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u324	Proposal from MP Dragomir Stoinev and group. The Commission does not support the proposal for a second sentence and supports it for a third sentence. Second sentence, not supported by the Commission: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 123, para. The second sentence is created: "The law of providers of last resort, the public supplier, final suppliers and electricity traders to cease the temporary supply of electricity to final customers using electricity for domestic purposes shall arise upon the expiry of the payment for the electricity consumed for a period of more than one month or if the amount due exceeds by 25 percent the minimum wage established for the country. The Commission proposes to establish § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "The right to suspend electricity supply cannot be realised on a day of rest or holiday, as well as on the day preceding it.'
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u325	Statements? Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u326	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! Colleagues, if you had accepted our proposal for this, when some account is being challenged not to be paid, I would probably not be taking this issue now, but provided that you have obliged people to pay, whether they doubt the account or not, whether they dispute it or not, there is no way to silence what we are trying to do at the moment with a sentence two. If we rephrase sentence two, it sounds like this: electricity distribution companies are prohibited from shutting down your electricity if you have two days overdue or you have not paid four levs, for example. That is the point here, that is, we are introducing one of the two hypotheses: or one month you have overdue your payment which can happen to anyone, for example, I have been abroad and I have not been able to pay my account, or it exceeds 25 percent of the minimum wage, which basically means that whichever happens, the account is due. Please support him very much because this is not about small bills, but it is about protecting those people who, for some reason, were objective, or healthy, or business, could not comply with the payment deadline, which, of course, does not apply if this account was over 25% of the minimum wage. I call on you once again: let us show some sympathy for the people and support this proposal in sentence two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u327	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Debates closed, vote pending. We vote on Dragomir Stoinev's proposal, Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev in the part where the Commission does not support him. They voted 94 MPs: 19 against 52, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on § 27 new, in the version of the Commission's report. They voted 93 MPs: 86, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u328	Proposal from the MPs Georgi Nedev and group. A number of proposals that have been addressed by p. 57 to p. 60.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u329	And the first unsupported is Mr. Valeri Simeonov and a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u330	A proposal from the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and the group .. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 153 the following amendments are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: Where an owner owning an independent site or premises in a building, a floor property connected to a subscriber station or to its stand-alone deviation does not wish to be a customer of heat for heating and/or hot water supply, he shall be obliged to declare this in writing to the heat transfer undertaking and to request the cessation of heat supply for heating and/or hot water from that subscriber station or from its self-deviation. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The persons referred to in paragraph 3 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. 2 shall be considered as customers of heat until the date of termination of the heat supply, but no later than thirty calendar days from the date of submission of the application for termination under para. 2. 1. Alinea 6 is canceled. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u331	Statements? Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u332	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I will try to argue about the proposal that we have made with my colleagues. It is dictated by the possibility of racketeering Bulgarian citizens who have the misfortune to live in heated buildings. I repeat, who have the misfortune of living in heated buildings, not those who have a contract with Heat Efficiency, or have radiators. Nevertheless, they have been forced under the laws in force so far. The Energy Act, as well as the Floor Property Act, are forcing them to pay for this unused heat. In this case, the proposal is motivated by the following: the current article. 153, para. 2 determines that any owner who owns a standalone site in a building can give up the services of Heat Efficiency only if he manages to convince two thirds of the floor property. This is not normal for us, it is not democratic and at least it is not European. Alinea 3 determines that the way of quitting, in fact the exclusion of those who have given up, is only one: when the heat supply is interrupted. It's a paradoxical text, there's no such other text in another law. So quitting is from the date you were expelled from the Warehouse. It is not determined whether there should be any time limit for this exclusion, so there is a theoretical possibility that you will be expelled after one year, for which period you owe amounts of heating. We believe that these are quite discriminatory texts and should enable Bulgarian citizens who do not want to use the services of Heatfication to be freed from their servitude and to be able to do so. That's the point of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u333	Any lines to Mr. Simeonov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal to create a new paragraph for Mr. Valeri Simeonov and a group which the Commission does not support. They voted 101 MPs: 19 against 28, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u334	Thank you, Madam President. I would like a re-vote, because honourable Members clearly do not understand at all what they are voting for and what they are doing. Colleagues, in November 2013, a criminal procedure was opened against Bulgaria precisely according to these texts, after which thanks to the European Commission the Law on Consumer Protection was amended. In the case of your vote, you are putting Bulgaria once again against it to open a procedure for punishment and for non-compliance with European legislation. Moreover, you put the monopoly at a privileged position to the detriment of the Bulgarian citizen. No one can order you and force you to use a service. You even vote against your own interest. I ask you: Who are you defending here today the monopoly, the energy mafia or the Bulgarian citizen? Please reconsider your vote very quickly and support the Euro-Atlantic position that is being spoken about in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u335	Revoting, coworkers. Vote 95 MPs: 21, Against 16, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u336	Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Nedev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Nedev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Nedev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission proposes to establish § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 162 para. 1 and 2 are amended as follows: The public supplier, respectively the final suppliers, shall be obliged to buy from producers connected to the network concerned all the electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration registered with a certificate of origin at preferential prices determined under the relevant ordinance under art. 36, para. 3, except for the amount of electricity needed to ensure the operational reliability of the main facilities produced above the amount of electricity from cogeneration and the quantities used by the manufacturer for own use and for own consumption within the meaning of art. 119, para. 1 either has contracts concluded under Chapter 9a, Section VII, or with which it participates in the balancing energy market or which are consumed by non-financial customers and which the manufacturer with a dominant heat load for economic needs supplies heat. Quantities of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration of heat and electricity shall be purchased up to the amount of quantities fixed by a Commission decision setting an individual price for installations. (2) The manufacturer may sell the quantities of electricity other than those under para. 1 at freely negotiated prices in accordance with Chapter 9a, Section VII or on the balancing market.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u337	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 28 on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: for 73, against 5, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u338	Proposal by the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 185 is created. 4. In the case of the transmission system operator's authorised representatives or natural gas transmission contracts and/or natural gas delivery contracts, the clients connected to the transmission or distribution network shall be obliged to grant access to their own facilities or to the operator's facilities installed in their properties.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u339	Statements? I won't. We are voting on § 29 on the Commission's report. Vote 91 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u340	Proposal from the MP Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs. The coworkers just pulled him out. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 203, para. 1 the words before the Supreme Administrative Court shall be replaced by the order of the Administrative Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u341	Statements? I won't. We vote § 30. 90 MPs voted: 87, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u342	Proposal by the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. There is a mistake in the report.. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 31-35: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 206, para. 1 words to BGN 1 000 000 shall be replaced by BGN 200,000 to BGN 1 000 000. § 32. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 207b, para. 1 the words............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance § 33. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. In the case of an energy undertaking which does not provide information in the cases provided for in this law, in the regulations on its application and requested by the Minister of Energy, the President of the Commission, the bodies of the Agency for State Financial Inspection and by the persons referred to in art. 78, para. 1, a penalty of 5000 to 50 000 BGN is imposed § 34. A new article shall be created. 209: Art. 209. To an energy undertaking which provides false information in the cases provided for in this law, in the regulations on its application and requested by the Minister of Energy, the President of the Commission, the bodies of the Agency for State Financial Inspection, and by the persons under art. 78, para. 1, a financial penalty from 5000 to 100 000 BGN is imposed. (2) In case of repeated infringement, the penalty shall be three times the maximum amount of the penalty under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. § 35. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 225 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 shall be added at the end for infringements under Article 1. Art. 208, Art. 209 and by the authorities of the State Financial Inspection Agency. 2. A new para is being created. 4. The Criminal Orders under art. 208 and 209 shall be issued by the Director of the Agency for State Financial Inspection or by officials authorised by the Agency, where the infringement has been established by the Agency's authorities in checks pursuant to art. 80a... 3. Previously on AMC's... 4 and 5 become respectively. 5 and 6...........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u343	Statements? I won't. We vote paragraphs 31 to 35 inclusive. Vote 98 MPs: 89 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u344	Paragraph 15. Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and group. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MPs Valeri Simeonov and group: .......................................................................................................... 1. point 39 is amended as follows: "39." The total volume of the common areas is the sum of the total volume of the space from the common parts of the building - floor property, with installed and operating space heaters. 2. Point 66b is amended as follows: "66b." A public interest service is the transport, supply or supply of energy or natural gas of a specified quality, regulated price or price determined by a methodology approved by the Commission and other contractual conditions. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by MPs Ramadan Atalay and group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MPs Iskren Veselinov and group: "Paragraph 15" shall be completed as follows: It's 41. "Professional experience in electricity generation" is the theoretical and practical experience gained in the areas of: development planning and practical management of the operation and maintenance of power grids and systems, development of electricity markets and the obligations of the country arising from the contract with the European Union and the directives of the European Community, renewable energy sources, new strategies and energy technologies for electricity production, as well as others. 41g. "Professional experience in thermal energy' is the theoretical and practical experience gained in the areas of: development planning and practical management of the operation and maintenance of thermal energy installations, sustainable development and energy efficiency, new energy technologies for the production of heat, control and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and trade therein, as well as others; 41z. "Professional experience in gas supply' is the theoretical and practical experience gained in the areas of: development planning and practical management of gas transmission and distribution facilities and storage facilities, strategy for diversification of natural gas supply, development of the natural gas market and regional gas interconnectors, the obligations of the country arising from the contract with the European Union and the directives of the European Community in the field of natural gas, as well as others. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Dragomir Stoinev, Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and supports it generally in the rest. The unsupported part is withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 15, which becomes § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 59 and 59a are amended as follows: I'm sorry, In the field of energy internship and/or service experience acquired in a senior or expert position in state or municipal energy management bodies, commercial companies subject to licensing under this law or concession under the Underground Resources Act, as well as in carrying out scientific or teaching activities related to the management of activities in energy. 59a. In the field of water supply and sewerage, a service or work experience acquired by a service or expert position in state or municipal bodies for the management of water and sewerage activities in commercial companies subject to regulation under the Water Supply and Sewerage Services Act, as well as in the conduct of scientific or teaching activities related to the management of the water and sewerage activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u345	Statements? Mr. Simeonov, after him Mr. Honest Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u346	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u347	Colleagues, let's give Mr. Simeonov a chance! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u348	Colleagues, four or five sentences. I won't bother you like I did last time. The proposal is dictated only by sound logic. Currently, the general heated parts are those in which the project has installed radiators. If you think that the law should remain that way, do not support my proposal, which is to accept as heated common parts only those in which there are installed and operating radiators. I hope you understand that. Sorry to take you away from other activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u349	- What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u350	I withdraw the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u351	You're withdrawing the offer. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. First I will put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev, Petar Petrov and Dr. Sultanka Petrova for changes in § 1 of the law, etc. 39. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 99 MPs: 22, against 26, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. The proposal of Mr. Veselinov and a group of MPs has been withdrawn; the next proposal is from Mr. Dragomir Stoynev and a group of MPs and has been withdrawn; the proposal of Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov has been withdrawn. We come to the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 15, which becomes § 36. We are voting § 36 on the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: 100, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u352	Proposal from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev and group. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 37 and 38: ...... 37........................................................................ Paragraph 16 of the Transitional and Final Provisions shall be repealed. § 38. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act (prom., SG...) in § 198, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 words.............................................................................. 162, para. 2, p. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u353	We are voting for paragraphs 37, 38 and the name "Transitional and final provisions" supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 94, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u354	Paragraph 16. Proposal from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev and group. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from MP Ramadan Atali and a group. The offer has been withdrawn. Proposal from MP Dragomir Stoinev and group. The offer has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. Within one month of the entry into force of this Act, the National Assembly shall elect the President and the other members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The term of office of the members of the Commission who entered into force on the date of entry into force of this Act shall end with the inauguration of the new members.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u355	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 39 on the Commission report. Vote 98 MPs: 96, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u356	Proposal by the National Representative Martin Dimitrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: ##38 is being created. ###38. ## The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... Within one month of the election of the members, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall adopt its Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u357	Statements? I won't. We vote § 40. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u358	Under § 17 there is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MP Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs. The motion is adjourned. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Nedev and a group of MPs. The motion is adjourned. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 41: ............................................................................. (1) The Commission shall be renewed by lot during the first term of office. The chairman of the committee shall not participate in the draw. (2) After the end of three years of its election, the commission shall be renewed with four members.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u359	We are voting § 41 on the Commission report. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u360	Proposal from the MP Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 42: .............................................................................. (1) Within two months of the entry into force of this law, final suppliers of electricity, final suppliers of natural gas, operators of electricity distribution networks and operators of gas distribution networks shall make a proposal to the Commission to amend the general terms of the contracts in accordance with the provisions of art. Art. 38a. 38z. (2) Until approval of the projects of general conditions under para. 1 The general conditions in force shall apply. (3) Within two months of the entry into force of this law, customers may state the manner of notification under art. 38h.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u361	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 42 in its version on the Commission report. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u362	Under § 18, there is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MP Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... In the Law for regulation of water supply and sewerage services (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 5, para. 1 words The State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is replaced by the Energy and Water Regulatory Board.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u363	Colleagues, we are voting § 43. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u364	According to § 19 there is a proposal from the MP Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 44: ..................................................... The acts issued by the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on the implementation of the Energy Act, the Renewable Energy Act and the Water Supply and Sewerage Services Regulation Act retain their effect.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u365	Statements? I won't. We vote § 44. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u366	There is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to set up paragraphs 45 - 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The regulation under art. 4, para. 2, p. 21 shall be issued within 6 months of the entry into force of this law subject to State aid requirements. § 46. The order of Art. 69a, para. 6 shall also apply to outstanding contributions under art. 69a, para. 3 which energy undertakings were obliged to do between 1 January 2013 and the entry into force of this law. § 47. Unpaid contributions from energy enterprises under art. 69a, para. 3 due for the period from 1 January 2013 to 1 April 2014, shall be imported until 31 December 2019 in accordance with the order laid down by the ordinance under art. 69a, para. 2. § 48. The licence for the production of electricity only for own consumption issued to a producer until the entry into force of this law shall remain valid until the expiry of the period for which it was issued, unless the licence holder makes a request to terminate the licence. § 49. In the Water Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10b, para. 3, p. 4 words The State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC) is replaced by the Energy and Water Regulatory (EWRC) (KEWRC). 2. Everywhere in the law, the abbreviation "DKEVRR" is replaced by "KEWRC." § 50. In the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 (prom., D.V., No. ...) in art. 37 The State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall be replaced by the Energy and Water Regulatory Board. § 51. In the Railway Transport Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 35, para. 5 words The State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is replaced by the Energy and Water Regulatory Board. § 52. In the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 2, para. 1 is created t. 13a: 13a. the Chair and the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u367	Statements? Mr. Simeonov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u368	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I'm introducing an editorial amendment to § 47. There's probably been some technical error: ss ss s s s s s Unpaid contributions from energy enterprises under art. 69a, para. 3 due for the period 1 January 2013 to 1 April 2014, shall be imported until 31 December 2019. ............................................... I guess, Mr. Dobrev, it's a little messed up. I suggest we set the real date 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u369	Is this about a technical error, or is it about something else? Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u370	Mr. Simeonov, thank you for paying attention, but the text is not really a mistake. In fact, this is the principle of generating these funds because they refer to the derogation for the carbon allowances, which is for the period 2013 - 2019. In this period, energy undertakings have no commitment to make investments on an annual basis, and they are detected for the period for which they are to be made, so the date is written............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. These texts have been agreed several times between the National Assembly and the Ministry of Energy. We even have an official letter from the Ministry of Energy saying that the texts should be exactly like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u371	Do you want me to put it to the vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u372	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u373	No. Any other MPs? I won't. We are voting, Members, paragraphs 45 to 52, including on the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: 94, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u374	Proposal by the MPs Valeri Simeonov and group. The Commission does not support the proposal: There are new ones being created. §§... ????????????????? The law on the management of floor property shall make the following amendments: In § 1. t. 11 of the Additional Provisions are amended as follows: "11." The management and maintenance costs are the cost of consumer management materials, remuneration of the members of the management and control bodies and the cashier, as well as electricity, water, cleaning, subscription service of the elevator and other costs necessary for the management and maintenance of the common parts of the building. Such costs shall also be those for heating the common parts with installed and operating heating units within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 37 of the additional provisions of the Energy Act. §... Within two months of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Energy shall amend and supplement Regulation No 16-334 on heat supply by updating the rules on contractual relations relating to the termination of heat supply for heating and/or hot water supply in buildings in floor-to-floor mode according to the amendments and additions to the law adopted. Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Dragomir Stoinev and group. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Ventsislav Kaymakanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 53 and 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Energy from Renewable Sources (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in the text before t. 1 words The State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC) is replaced by the Energy and Water Regulatory (EWRC) (KEWRC); (b) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." determine with the methodology referred to in art. 35, para. 5 of the Energy Act, the allocation of costs resulting from the purchase obligations at preferential prices of electricity produced from renewable sources between all end customers connected to the electricity system; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) a new t is created. 2: "2." priority leaving in operation by the transmission or distribution network operator of the power generation capacities of the energy sites under art. 24, p. 3 with combined cycle and indirect use of biomass of which the total weight of manure is not less than 50 per cent and combined cycle and indirect use of biomass of plant waste from own agricultural production, subject to the balance between production and consumption in excess, after running out of balancing requests down and without limitation of working hours during the year of the plant concerned; (bb) Previously on "T." 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 become respectively. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. (b) in para. 2 words. 5, 6 and 7 6, 7 and 8 (c) in para. 4 all over the abbreviation of DKEWRC is replaced by KEWRC; (d) in para. 6 is added at the end. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." with an installed electrical power of up to 1,5 MW, for the production of combined cycle energy and indirect use of biomass of which the total weight of manure is not less than 50 per cent, and with an installed electrical power of up to 500kW for the production of combined cycle energy and indirect use of biomass of plant waste of own agricultural production, which is intended to be built in urbanised areas, agricultural sites or production zones. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 and 2 abbreviations "DKEWRC" is replaced by "KEWRC" is replaced by "KEWRC"; (b) paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 are amended as follows: The manufacturer of electricity from renewable sources with installed power exceeding 200 kW shall provide real-time data transmission to the transmission or distribution grid operator for the power supply at the connection point as well as remote control of that power. The distribution grid operators shall transmit to the transmission grid operator aggregated real-time data for the electrical power supplied at the connection points by the different types of renewable sources with installed capacity of more than 200 kW. (5) The transmission or distribution network operator shall restrict the power supplied to the power grid remotely or by dispatching order in cases where the transmission capacity of the network to which the manufacturer is connected or in the cases referred to in Article 8 is exceeded. 73 of the Energy Act. (6) The transmission or distribution network operator shall immediately notify the supplier of the electricity from renewable sources in a manner specified in the access contract of upcoming restrictions, indicating the date and time of entry and the relevant range. (c) in para. 7 abbreviations "DKEWRC" is replaced by "KEWRC" is replaced by "KEWRC." 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 5, t. 1 sentence 2 is created: "For the sites under art. 24, p. 3 the determined annual average duration of work shall not apply. (b) The abbreviation is replaced by the abbreviation "KEWRC" everywhere. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 and 4 the words "the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission' shall be replaced by "the Energy and Water Regulatory Board'; (b) in para. 6 abbreviations "DKEWRC" is replaced by "KEWRC" is replaced by "KEWRC." 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60, para. 1 t. 1 words "al." 1, t. 1 and 2' are replaced by.......................................................................................................... 1, t. One and 8. In the other texts of the law, the words "the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission" are replaced by "the Energy and Water Regulatory Board" and the abbreviation "DKEWRC" is replaced by "KEWRC." § 54. Encouraging under art. 18, para. 1, t. 6, 7 and 8, as well as Art. 31 and 32 of the Renewable Energy Act shall not apply to energy plants for the production of electricity from renewable sources which are put into operation after the entry into force of this Act, with the exception of the sites under art. 24, p. 1 and 3............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u375	Statements? Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u376	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I withdraw our proposal because it has become meaningless with the non-acceptance of this proposal. 39, which was related to the costs of the common heated rooms. As a final statement, I would like to express my disappointment that these important texts for the Bulgarian people were not adopted. I understand the behavior of the conditional ruling coalition. I can't understand the opposition's behavior. I expected Volen to support me. Where's Volen? [[Radio.]] I expected Lutvi to support me. Where's Lutvi? Where's Mikhail? Where are you? Where are your voices? I'm sorry. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u377	A statement on the withdrawn text? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u378	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! My question is based on the text in points 2 and 3 of the paragraph in question, it is a question of capacity of 1,5 megawatts.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. My question is: is the word here special, since we have a problem, as is known, with agricultural waste and their use. The straw is a special case, which is a huge resource that is being wasted. Moreover, it is a source of greenhouse gases and we know that after 2017, there is an opportunity for criminal procedures in this direction. My question is, is the word "useful" by chance as a restriction? And in the event that there is no particular design, I propose that by the order of our Rules as an editorial amendment be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u379	And who's your asking for it? Who do you expect an answer from?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u380	By the Minister and the President of the Commission, because I have not participated in the Commission's work and I am not aware of the motive for this particular word to be present.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u381	Okay, I expect in the form of a reply answer to the question. There has been a question in the wording of Paragraph 53 of the page. 86, p. 3 in the middle of the text. There it is said: the combined cycle indirect use of biomass from plant waste from own agricultural production. And what did you ask why your own?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u382	Yes, that's right, Madam President. It's not a mistake. The reason why it writes the words of the company is so that farmers can be stimulated and not companies for investments in biomass electricity production that can go around and buy out waste agricultural production and only develop this business. It is on purpose written down as a source of agricultural production because we believe that this is more correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u383	Thank you. Do you maintain your request to drop or have you received a satisfactory response? Mr. Ermenkov wants to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u384	Following the Rules of the National Assembly, I declare that I do not have a conflict of interest on the occasion of the proposal I am going to make right now. Since I do not want to join the category of hateful investors, I propose an editorial amendment to § 54 as amended by the Commission. Exactly: "Renewable sources which have been put into service" "after the comma to write" which are in the initiated procedure for putting into service." I will explain to you what is going on about sites that have already been built, are ready to be put into service, whose documents have already been submitted to the DNC in order to be authorised to enter into service. In other words, no additional investments are made here. It's not about, as far as I'm concerned, a huge amount of objects I think are three or four. It's about, again, something that's already done and is only in a documentary phase of approval. So I propose that the expression after the comma that has been put into service shall be replaced by the expression.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u385	In the text, as I read it, it is about relationships that are then: "Instructions under the Renewable Energy Act do not apply to energy plants for the production of electricity from renewable sources which have been put into operation after the entry into force of this Act....".........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u386	That's exactly how it's written down.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u387	And you want... who are in the process of putting into service. However, in order to be introduced under this Law, it means that implicitly it also contains those who have initiated a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u388	No, unfortunately, that's not what this is about. I suppose Mr. Dobrev will give a better explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u389	I want you to guide me to make sure that the amendment is only editorial.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u390	Yeah, yeah, editing's the fix.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u391	That's a statement. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u392	A statement. Thus, the proposed text seems to me that it is not entirely correct. What is the meaning of an accession procedure launched? Imagine a situation where, once we accept this exception, all who have started any investment at all, submit applications to the DNCC, which has to accept the object, retain one number and say: "Behold, we have started the procedure and they are in the initial phase of the investment. The danger, by voting on such an incorrect text, of leading us to great headaches is very great. In the Commission, we discussed this in detail and it became clear that there are 40 megawatts of biomass waiting to be connected and are in different stages of construction. And more than 40 megawatts of water, over 160 megawatts of wind and so on. From only the first two sources of renewable energy, the additional deficit of the National Electricity Company will be over 200 million. In this sense, I am not sure that this text is correct and will not cause us any problems. If you have a better version. I think this is not exactly an editorial proposal, because it changes the whole meaning of the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u393	And there is no such proposal in the Commission that has been discussed. Any other MPs? You have an opportunity for a doppelganger, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u394	I understand, Mr. Dobrev. I take it it hasn't been cleared as a text. Still, we had to show concern for those who had completed their subjects and there was no danger of abuse. In that case, I'm withdrawing the offer I made.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u395	Thank you for understanding, Mr. Ermenkov. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. On this text there is a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs - the Commission does not support it. The motion has been withdrawn. All other texts are supported in principle. We are voting on paragraphs 53 and 54 on the Commission report. 110 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u396	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I am making a procedural proposal. As the agenda of tomorrow's meeting has been voted on. 1, let us make the following shift in the programme, which follows the already voted Work Programme this week, namely. 8 - Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act, to become a t. Two for tomorrow. Then the points of the already voted and adopted Work Programme this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u397	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal for a change in the order of the drafts included in our weekly programme, which is tomorrow after that. 1 "Project of a decision to elect the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad, etc. 2 to be the Second Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act. We vote. They voted 111 MPs: 108, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u398	Proposal by the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1, 2 and 4, and times t. Three is withdrawn. Proposal from the MP Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create paragraphs 55 - 57: ........... 55....................................................................... The Public Procurement Act (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. Article 7e is amended as follows: Art. 7e. Activities related to the operation of a geographical area are: 1. extraction of oil or natural gas; 2. demand, exploration or extraction of coal or other solid fuels; 3. operation of airports, ports or other terminal bases used for air, sea or inland waterway transport. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1 is created t. 19: "19." Nuclear Damage Insurance Contracts pursuant to the Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage, drawn up in Vienna on 21 May 1963. (Ratified by law...............) and the Law on Safe Use of Nuclear Energy........................................)................................................................................................................................................................................................ § 56. In the Act on Climate Change limitation (prom, SG) in art. 57 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: The revenue from the sale of the quotas under para. 1 shall be transferred to the budget of the Ministry of Energy and shall be spent under art. 35, para. 6 of the Energy Act. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. § 57. The Act shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 13, which shall enter into force on 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u399	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote paragraphs 55 to 57 inclusive. Vote 110 MPs: for 107, none against abstention 3. The proposal has been adopted and the bill at second reading has also been adopted. [[Applause.]] Minister Petkova wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u400	I thank all my colleagues and the ruling majority and the opposition. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u401	Colleagues, I haven't announced the end of the session. There will be surprises. [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u402	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I won't waste your time. I just wanted to thank you for supporting and adopting the so important changes to the Energy Act for us. The constructive debate that we have witnessed today makes me optimistic and shows that saving Bulgarian energy, its stabilisation is our common cause, for which I thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-26.u403	And thank you for your participation, Madam Secretary. Communications of parliamentary control on 27 February 2015, Friday 11.00: - Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov will answer a question from the MPs Maya Manolova and Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer two questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, and Velizar Enchev; - the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva will answer six questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov stwo questions, Dzhevdet Chakarov, Georgi Bojinov and Stoyan Mirchev, Slavcho Binev, and Lubomir Vladimirov and one question from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer one question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev; - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will answer four questions from the MPs Velizar Enchev, Kiril Kalfin, Stefan Kenov, and Maya Manolova, and one question from the MP Dimitar Delchev; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer four questions from the MPs Milen Mihov, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, Kalina Balabanova, and Kristian Vigenin and Mariana Boyadjieva, and one question from the National Representative Borislav Velikov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer eight questions from the MPs Metodi Andreyev, Petar Slavov, Volen Siderov, Krasimir Bogdanov, Miho Mihov, Hristo Gadzhev, Angel Naydenov, and Slavcho Atanasov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov will answer five questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov, Desislav Chukolov, Valeri Zablyanov, Christian Vigenin, and Volen Siderov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer 10 questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov, Dimitar Shishkov, Dzhevdet Chakarov, two questions, Jayhan Ibryamov, Georgi Kadiev, Christian Vigenin and Emil Raynov, Valentin Nikolov Ivanov, Emil Raynov, Georgi Tarnovalyski; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer three questions from the MPs Ivan Stankov and Georgi Kuchukov, Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev two questions; - Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski will answer four questions from the MPs Nikolay Alexandrov, Georgi Bozhinov, two questions, Hristo Gabzhev and Alexander Nenkov; - Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer four questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov, Desislav Chukolov, Krasimir Yankov, and Cornelia Marinova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer 10 questions from the MPs Borislav Iglev, Mihail Mikov, Zhelyo Boychev and Georgi Svilenski, Petar Slavov, Villa Lilkov, Maya Manolova, Cornelia Ninova, Petar Ivanov Petrov, Kalina Balabanova, Lubomir Vladimirov, and Valentin Nikolov Ivanov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to three questions from the MPs Zdravko Dimitrov, Ivan Valkov, Chavdar Georgiev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Petar Hristov Petrov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the MPs Stefan Kenov and Rumen Yonchev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Teodora Georgieva; - the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the MPs Plamen Manushev, Krasimir Petrov and Pavel Hristov and to a question from the National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to two questions with written answer from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, and Ilian Todorov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 4 and art. 97, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, due to the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from MP Martin Dimitrov to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov; - a question from MP Georgi Andonov to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin will not participate. Due to a meeting of the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to a prior commitment to the parliamentary control meeting, Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate. Without the questions put by the MPs, the necessary parliamentary time for control has swelled again at 10.03 hours. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session with a legislative body. It's an early hour. 9:00 p.m. I'm shutting down the plenary day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
