ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u1	There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. Before we move on to point one for today, and this is the First Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Energy Act, one message: On 14 January 2015, a joint draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior adopted on the first vote on 18 December 2014. The draft was drawn up by the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order on the grounds of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ENERGY LAW. There has been a report on the first vote by the committees to which it has been allocated. The Committee on Energy is the lead. The report will introduce us to Mr. Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! First, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the hall of Mr. Anton Pavlov, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Svetla Marinova. Please allow them into the courtroom.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u3	Please vote regime. Vote 162 MPs: 160, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u4	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 402-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers to 7 November 2014 At its meeting on 11 December 2014, the Energy Commission discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Energy Mr. Anton Pavlov, Head of the Legal and Regulatory Activity Department, Ms. Svetlana Marinova; from the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission: Mrs. Svetla Todorova Chairman, Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova, Mrs. Kostadinka Todorova, Mrs. Milena Milanova, Mrs. Ilian Iliev, Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov, Members; from The bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act was presented by the Deputy Minister of Energy Mr. Anton Pavlov. The proposed bill aims at improving energy regulation, currently carried out by the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The envisaged amendments ensure greater autonomy in the organisation of work and the identification of the necessary financial elements for the effective implementation of the regulated objectives. The bill has the following objectives: creating legal prerequisites for optimising the Commission's work on energy and water regulation. Confirming the Commission's authority as an independent regulatory authority. The proposed procedure shall ensure publicity in the selection process of the members of the Commission. The election of the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission by the National Assembly guarantees both professionalism and transparency of choice. The approach is consistent with public expectation. In order to increase transparency in the work of the Commission, there will be an exception in cases where information protected by law is disclosed. It is envisaged to extend the scope of the information published by the Commission, including protocols of open meetings and public discussions. Strengthening the requirements of the members of the Commission with regard to professional experience. It is considered appropriate to increase professional experience requirements from three to five years to a responsible position as a Commissioner. The President of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission Mrs. Svetla Todorova said that the Commission supports the bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act. The Commission supports the election of the members of the National Assembly. Supports the division of the Commission into two configurations. He expressed concerns about the Commission's financing. The concern lies in the fact that the independence of the Commission does not depend only on the way it is elected, as well as the organisation of work, but also on independent financing. A concern also gives rise to the intention to hold all the Commission meetings openly. Annually, the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission deals with around 8,000 complaints and the invitation of all complainants would make it difficult for the Commission to work, as well as the fact that internal affairs are being dealt with at meetings. In the subsequent discussion ABB representatives support the bill, with recommendations for some details to be reconsidered and others to be refined. They wish to extend the procedure for proposals for Commissioners by allowing anyone interested and eligible to apply. They do not approve of the removal of at least one Commissioner being a lawyer and at least one economist. There were concerns that the requirements for professional internship were low. The representatives of BSP left Bulgaria do not support the bill. They insist on self-financing of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which will significantly contribute to its independence and to the members of the Commission being professionally oriented. The representatives of the Patriotic Front support the bill, because for them the bill has small fundamental problems that can be revised and corrected in the period between first and second readings. GERB representatives support the bill, which is of great public importance, believing that the bill meets public expectations. The representatives of the DPS support the bill with recommendations for adjustments between first and second readings. The representatives of "Attack" do not approve of the bill because it is incomplete for them. People's representative Mr. Tasco Ermenkov took an attitude and suggested delaying the viewing of the bill. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held. Results of the vote: 1. Procedure to postpone the vote on the bill for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act: 2. Under the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Energy Act:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ As a result of the discussion, the Energy Committee proposed to the National Assembly that the draft Energy Act, No 402-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 November 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u5	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. We will now hear the report of the Monitoring Commission of the activities of the SEWRC. I'm expecting Mr. Honest Vesselinoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act submitted by the Council of Ministers On 7 November 2014, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No At its meeting on 13 January 2015, the Monitoring Commission of the activities of the SEWRC discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Svetlana Marinova, Head of the Legal and Normal Activities Department, at the Department of Law of the Ministry of Energy and almost the entire composition of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The President of the Commission Mrs. Todorova presented the main points of the written opinion. First of all, the need to maintain the requirement of having an economist and a lawyer in the composition of the SEWRC was noted, which was justified by the specifics of the decisions taken. A concern was expressed regarding the proposed requirement that all meetings of the SEWRC be opened. In this context, the specific topics of meetings, which, if conducted under the openness procedure, will make it difficult and will significantly delay the work of the SEWRC, were detailed. A restriction of the wording of Paragraph 8 was proposed in order to avoid requirements which are of a general nature. The statement stated that the division of the Commission into two compositions would not lead to an increase in the effectiveness of its work. It was also pointed out that the Commission's independence does not depend solely on the way it is chosen, as well as the organisation of work, but also on independent financing. In this context, it has been proposed to ensure adequate funding of the Commission's activities. In the subsequent discussion representatives of the Patriotic Front supported the Bill in principle, stating the need for the SEWRC to be divided into two separate committees, as the current proposal for two compositions is not effective and does not guarantee the necessary professional qualification of the Chairman of the SEWRC. They support the request to maintain the form of closed meetings on a limited range of topics. They propose to ensure a greater quorum and qualification in decision-making for each composition of the Commission and to add texts that refine the functioning and distribution of responsibilities in the Commission, as is the practice with other similar committees. GERB representatives support the Bill as very necessary and support the opinion of the SEWRC in its part for the presence of closed meetings and ensuring adequate funding of the activity. The representatives of BSP left Bulgaria do not support the bill by proposing its adoption to delay the development of a new bill for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act. They insist on laying down the rules for election, which shall include a majority of 2/3 when elected by the President. They support the request for self-financing of the SEWRC, which will contribute significantly to its independence. The requirement for professional internship to be increased and the number of commissioners to be increased in order to ensure competence in more areas. It should also be specified which meetings should be closed. The representatives of "Attack" do not approve of the Bill, because nothing requires a division of the Commission into two configurations. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held. Results of the vote:............................... 9 votes........................................................................................ 4 As a result of the discussion the Monitoring Commission of the activities of the SEWRC proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft Energy Act, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 November 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u7	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. On behalf of the Council of Ministers, they do not wish to present the bill. Debates are open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to take part in them to give a sign. Mr. Yankov goes first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! In relation to the proposed Law. The proposal was made by the Council of Ministers. It has been seen in the office, the motives have been signed by the minister of the service, but it has been submitted for consideration by the current Council of Ministers. Thus proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act is actually making a general administrative reform in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. There is an attempt to suggest that until now the Commission has not worked as an independent regulatory authority. Now is the place and time to remind that according to art. 2 of the SEWRC Rules of Procedure The Commission is an independent specialized state body which regulates the activities in the energy sector in accordance with the provisions of the Energy Act and the water supply and sewerage services in accordance with the provisions of the Water Supply and Sewerage Services Regulation Act. We must remember that this debate has started since the beginning of 2013. We should also recall the number of the Chairs of the SEWRC in the mandate of the cabinet Borisov 2009-2013, the rapid change of the Presidents of the Commission after Angel Semerdzhiev was almost throughout the entire term of office "Lilyana Ivanova," Andon Rokov, Evgenia Haritonova. As early as February 2013, there was dissatisfaction with high electricity bills, which began to escalate. On 4 February the protests in Sofia and the whole of Southwestern Bulgaria launched, aimed at the "Toplofication" and the erepetas. People were complaining about ridiculous increases in electricity bills. The tensions spread and the whole country was covered by protests, which forced the ruling majority in parliament to instruct the Court of Auditors to audit water, electricity, steam and gas prices. The aim was to establish how they were formed and regulated. The reaction, however, did not calm the citizens. In an attempt to control the situation Boyko Borisov definitely said that he will propose to the SEWRC that it will not be a coincidence that I started with the undisputed fact that this is an independent regulatory authority, in this period he suggests that the current will be cheaper by 8% of March and CEZ's license to be revoked, which is actually within the powers of this independent regulatory authority. The Prime Minister blamed the situation on those who signed the contracts with the electricity distribution companies, and the blame of his government saw only in the appointment of Angel Semerdzhiev, which in his words was on the proposal of the long-lost Traycho Traykov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u9	Is that a statement under the law now?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u10	Shortly thereafter, the resignation of the Borisov cabinet was reached. As a matter of fact, the rapid change in the structure of the work of the SEWRC should lead us in the direction of reasoning that an adequate attitude is sought towards the reaction of Bulgarian citizens, such as the winter against 2013, which may be available now in the remaining winter months. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, in the previous parliament, the reaction of the majority, of those who adequately wanted to organise the work of the independent regulatory authority, was to be in favor of the Bulgarian citizens. I would remind you that the Bulgarian Parliament adopted legislative changes and the SEWRC adopted a change in the pricing method. This new methodology has led to an average reduction for the different suppliers in terms of the electricity price of around 5% from 1 August 2013. The additional work of the Commission's new composition and the open reserves, according to the methodology on which it is working, has enabled the price of the night electricity tariff to drop by 10% at the end of the year and by about 1% at the day's level. Depreciation covers both households and businesses. What happened before the current majority was formed? Already in the office, as of 1 October 2014, the price of electricity increased by an average of 9.79% for customers of the three electricity suppliers, with the decision of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in the conditions of protests and egg fire on the building. What is proposed, honourable Members, is a package of administrative changes, which will mostly be justified by the proposal to elect the members of the Commission and the President and the National Assembly. I don't see it as an escape from executive responsibility. We, as a consistent party, have proposed this to happen as early as the end of January 2013. In this period of the forty-first National Assembly, we are the first to initiate a political debate between the represented parliamentary groups and the Chairman of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to enjoy public authority and to be supported by two thirds of the MPs; the members of the Commission to be elected after discussion after presenting their visions by the National Assembly. And we're behind it. However, the other proposals for dividing the Commission into two compositions, we believe that they will not allow more effective work of the Commission itself and will have the opportunity or rather create a prerequisite for increasing the administration of the Commission itself. The Bulgarian Socialist Party believes that the work of the independent regulatory authority should be ensured by compliance with the current regulations. The laws, regulations and records by which the law is amended to respect the law, you understand that they are untenable. In this debate, we received support and understanding from various representatives of the parliamentary groups regarding the objectives proposed in the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. However, in any case, adjustments must be made between the two readings in which to unite only behind the election of the members and the composition of the Commission to be from the National Assembly. All other proposals are untenable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u11	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov. First line to Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Yankov, honourable colleagues on the left! I listened carefully to the statement, but I could not understand exactly what its purpose was......................... whether the current and previous compositions of the Commission for their work, whether to appeal to preserve the status quo, or what? What I have been able to understand, and I think Mr. Iankov mentioned it, too, that the composition of the Commission has been changed repeatedly in recent years and what they have done in practice is not good and does not satisfy either society or could satisfy us. However, the other thing I was able to understand seems to me that my fellow Members on the left did not read the proposed bill well enough and the reasons for it, otherwise they would not be talking about a choice with two thirds of the Commission's composition, because the reasons for the bill are very clear as to why this cannot happen without a change in the Constitution. So my appeal in this direction is to read the proposed bills more carefully. Otherwise, it seems to me that the bill itself is quite well motivated, quite well sustained in every respect and quite well explained any change that is being proposed. It seems to me that this could also be a little bit more on the left to pay attention to deepening. In any case, however, it is clear that the Commission's work is not satisfactory, reforms and changes must be sought in order to improve the Commission's work as an independent regulator, not as a satellite of the executive, whose composition is changed in any change in the executive power, but as a truly independent regulatory authority that works in the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u13	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u14	Madam President, honourable Members, Mr. Slavov, in my speech I deliberately mentioned all the Presidents of the State Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, and if you have paid attention, or if you are aware, I mentioned those who have been replaced since the beginning of February. Yes, I agree that this as a decision must not be made by anyone alone, so be it the Prime Minister of the Republic. This is an independent regulatory authority. And that is why we are ready to support the proposal for the election of the composition and the President by the Members of the National Assembly. But the four presidents of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which were quickly replaced, did not actually fulfill this task by the cabinet Borisov until 2013, which clearly demonstrated from his application............................ to reduce the price of electricity. That can't be allowed. I would not assess the work of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission as you do, because this is a subsisting of attitude to the way it operates. There are other competent authorities, there is also a civil society that is normal to have a relationship. Otherwise, the President of the Commission must be of public confidence. And that with the proposal for two thirds of the MPs, if you read carefully in the motives, the ones provided to us is interpretive. So let's not suggest that this is impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u15	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Since so far there are willing to speak from almost all parliamentary groups, I announce those who have so far signed up, following the size of the parliamentary groups. If I missed anyone, please give me a sign. Mr. Borislav Velikov from the Reformation Bloc; after him Mr. Valeri Simeonov; Mr. Tsochev gave a sign; Georgi Nedev from the BDZ group; Mr. Slavov from the Reformation Block; Mr. Ermenkov has signed up; and Mr. Velizar Enchev. Now I see people who want to go downtown. Mr. Borislav Veliev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I have carefully read both the motives and the bill itself. From now on, I can say that I will support it with my vote. But as in other such cases, many of us have said, including myself, like any human deed, and this is not perfect. What is involved in this imperfection? Just to read the first sentence of the motives and we will see that the proposed bill aims to improve energy regulation. But it's energy and water regulation. My main thesis, which I will deal with for two or three minutes, is that water regulation should not be underestimated, as this part that the water supply will have to deal with is quite responsible. As noted elsewhere in the reasoning, the issues of the water sector, which are no less important to society, remain in the background on the Commission's agenda. They remain in the background and in this bill. For colleagues who have not dealt with the matter, I would like to say that this composition, which deals with the water supply issues, I see the honourable Mr. Genov, who will probably support me because he is a former manager of a water company, is not only dealing with the prices of water supply and sewerage services, including waste water disposal and treatment. There are many important issues related to the formation of the annual target levels for the quality of services in the water sector, elements and parameters of business plans, order of control of their implementation, acceptable losses, methodologies, estimates of eligible water losses on our water supply networks. Perhaps many of the colleagues know that these losses are over 60%, in many cases they are two thirds. Two thirds of the water that goes out of a dam doesn't get to the users, to us, but disappears somewhere in the pipes. There are other moments. But if we take into account that we have a National Strategy for Water Sector Management and Development in Bulgaria, we also have an adopted Strategy for the Development and Management of Water Supply and Sewerage in the Republic of Bulgaria, all of this has happened, especially the second strategy, with the help of the World Bank. We need to read all of the World Bank's recommendations correctly, not just some of them. What else does it say? That measures are needed to strengthen the resources and capacity of the SEWRC or this commission, which will now be formed in the water sector. It is also mentioned that water companies should not be considered by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in general but should have an individual approach, should apply specific, specific requirements and service level indicators in accordance with the general plans. You know, there are also new associations of water supply and sewerage that are not yet filled with content. There we expect changes to the Water Act. All of this, colleagues, suggests that I should at least suggest between first and second readings to increase the capacity of the plumbing composition. Currently it is envisaged to be of two people in practice, along with the President, who will probably be with pό energy thinking. He can also be a specialist in the field of natural gas. There are two people left in the water supply and sewage sector. So one plus two. And if we look closely at § 7, the water supply and sewer composition shall include the President and the two members. The meetings of this Chamber shall be regular if two-thirds are present. So two people to attend. The decisions will be taken by a majority of the members. So these two people should have a majority if they're on the same page. But if only one of those who understand the plumbing, along with the chairman, are present, what decision will they make? In fact, it seems to me that we need to think about increasing the composition that is for water services. I will propose that between first and second readings they be four... symmetrically. As we have one president with four for energy, so that there should be one president and four members with experience in water supply and sewerage. I believe that this will help us to optimize the work of the Commission, not only to improve energy but also water regulation. Water, the right to clean drinking water with no colour, no odour, the right to take and clean waste water is a basic human right. This is a certain truth, supported by more than a million and 800 thousand signatures last year, a special citizens' initiative in the European Union. We must not underestimate this issue. Maybe some people will say it's all mending or not enough. I agree with such opinions. A new Water and Sewerage Act is needed to sign this issue. For the moment, I share what the authors of the reasons said that this is a small step in the right direction. This division of two compositions, but with the agreement that the resource, the capacity of the composition for the water supply must be strengthened. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u17	- What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support, in principle, at first reading, the proposal to amend and supplement the Energy Act. We do not need to convince ourselves that, at this time, at this time, and with these functions, the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is really working effectively, it is failing to fulfil the obligations that have been laid down to it by law, and we, as a legislative body, need to do what is necessary to introduce the relevant changes. So, on the one hand, to ease the work and, on the other hand, to ensure that society is fully satisfied with the duties of this body. I am talking about the State Commission, as this is the subject of a change in the Energy Act. There are things we don't accept. Between first and second readings, we will make our proposals. If you allow me, I will inform you about them, as well as the reasons why we do not accept them, so that you may also have the opportunity to consider your support. First of all, we do not accept the proposal that the Commission be of two compositions, but that there be one common President. We are definitely of the opinion that these are two completely different professional profiles that need to be presented by professionals. In this proposal, with one President-General of this Commission and two members, one responsible for energy, the other for water and sewerage, it is clear that the President can be a specialist only in one area of both. So its function will be purely administrative, as any appointed secretary of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission can perform. It would be good to have a chair of the energy part and a chair of the water supply, which means that there should be two committees. In this direction, we will make a proposal, as I said before the vote at second reading. I rely on your support simply because it is more than clear that this Commission must work professionally. The short history of this body so far has shown that when it is led and when there are people in it who are specialists in everything else, only not energy and water, then the Commission cannot function fully. It's been like this for a while now. I remind you that very recently there was a composition of the Commission, which practically did not participate in any energy specialist and, respectively, in the water supply. So this is going to be one of our proposals. Our second proposal on the occasion of the proposed amendment is to drop the parasitic, unnecessary texts in § 8, which impose obligations in place under all laws and the Constitution. We believe that the bill must be exempted from these parasitic texts of the kind that members of the Commission must comply with the Constitution, laws and regulations. It's like that's supposed to be part of it because it's not their job, what?! Secondly, they make a decision without being influenced by personal and corporate interests, guided by what would be useful for the society and citizens of Bulgaria. Third, consult the public and so on. I think he wants some more work on this text. In principle, as a strategy, the bill is correct and we will support it at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u19	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Georgi Nedev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act is undoubtedly aimed at improving energy and water regulation, which is carried out by the State Commission. The authors of the Bill have generally complied with the recommendations of the active public discussion held last year on the Commission's activities. In our view, the bill also shows that the regulatory authority is legally separate and functionally independent from public and private entities and governance bodies, including national, local and regional structures. Thus, the importer aims to meet the requirements of Articles 35.4 of the European Electricity Directive and 39.4 of the Gas Directive, which provide: The Member States shall ensure the independence of the regulatory authority and the impartial and transparent enforcement of powers. At the same time, the proposed specific changes to the provisions of the Law, despite the authors' claim for improvement in the implementation of the Commission's regulatory powers, cannot be accepted by our parliamentary group in this form. Here is precisely what I mean: on the legal prerequisites for optimising the work of the Commission for energy and water regulation, reflected in the motives of the authors and, in particular, the proposed division of the Commission into two specialized compositions, which was mentioned in the speeches of the negotiators. I would like to refer to the current practice of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in a single Chamber, where experts in the Commission's specialized directorates examine all documents submitted according to their competence, prepare reports to the Commission, including the draft decision and submit them to the Commission for consideration. For the members of the Commission, the main obligations are: verification of the correctness of the expert conclusions, analysis of the equivalences in the proposed decisions with the National Energy Policy and conclusions on the economic and legal appropriateness of the decision. These obligations can, in our view, be fulfilled by a single composition of the Commission, which includes members with expert levels in energy, the water sector, the economy and the law. We understand that in the last year the problems in energy may have shifted the focus of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which mainly dealt with the painful problems for society for the price of electricity, but this cannot justify such artificial separation from the type of fish, nor cancer. The recommendation of the consultant from the review of the regulation of the water supply sector referred to by the authors of the bill is for the legal separation of the current Commission into two separate committees. On this point, we believe that this recommendation is not necessarily applicable at this time and we firmly maintain our opinion on a single composition of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. In support of this position, we add the argument that in the proposed Draft Law, one of the compositions for the water sector consists of only two members, which calls into question the possibility of decision-making in emergency situations, for example in the absence of one of the members. We also believe that both energy and water professionals and a lawyer and an economist should be included in the composition of the Commission. We oppose our view of the thesis in the motives of the authors that the latest specialists were required only in the initial completion of the administration and its training in the area of regulation. The Commission cannot be composed solely of experts with technical education, members must have diverse expertise, necessarily involving the economy and the law. On the second point, on the transparency of the Commission's work, we do not accept the idea of the proposed draft that all Commission meetings be opened. Our main motive is that this is practically unfulfilled, requires a lot of time and additional resource and does not correspond to the practice of regulatory authorities. I will re-examine the practice of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission at present. Each problem solved goes through the following stages: first, closed session for discussion and adoption of the report of the relevant directorates on the problem and preliminary draft solution. Secondly, notice an open meeting with stakeholders to discuss the directorate report and to present the arguments of all participants. Thirdly, public discussion of the problems with the participation of the interested NGOs, branch organizations, trade unions and others interested. And, fourthly, a closed meeting of the Commission, at which the final decision is taken, in line with the debates and discussions held. That is, only open meetings without prior preparation will be extremely burdened and will not improve the Commission's work. For us, the problem of the State Commission and regulation is not in the presence of closed meetings in the decision-making process, but in the failure to ensure equality of the entities affected by regulated activities, ignoring the arguments of the participants in the open meetings and public discussions and the quality of the reports adopted by the Commission. We will therefore also support the extension of the information published by the Commission, including from open meetings and public discussions, and especially the disclosure of the way in which each Commissioner voted when making the final decision at the closed meeting. Our understanding is that these amendments to the law, combined with the above practice of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, are sufficient to ensure the necessary transparency in the Commission's work. Next, on the requirements for professional experience of candidates for Commissioners, we believe that the responsibility and autonomy of the Commission's decisions require greater professional experience of candidates than that provided for in the Bill. In this sense, we support the statement expressed by the representatives of BSP left Bulgaria to the Commission for monitoring the activities of the State Commission for seven years internship acquired in real application of the specialty. Next, on the Rules of Procedure of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. At present, the Rules of Procedure shall be adopted by the Council of Ministers. In order to implement the basic idea of the bill, it is naturally necessary to adopt the Rules of Procedure of the Commission by Parliament. On the budget and the means of implementing the Commission's energy and water regulation activities. Our understanding is that the necessary condition to ensure the independence of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is that the Commission's budget is adopted by the National Assembly, respectively the report on the Commission's activities and the financial report must also be under the control of Parliament. Dear colleagues, the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center will support at first reading the bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act, because we believe that the changes are imperative and the work of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission must be improved. At the same time, given the many concrete remarks between the first and second reading of the Bill, we will submit our concrete proposals for its amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u21	Thank you, dear Mr Nedev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The colleague Nedev spoke prepared, but I think that the thesis he developed about the capacity of only two commissioners for the water sector was not continued in the right direction, but in the other part of the opinion. Obviously, if there are only two and they are in the same group, there will be hard time for the portfolio they are responsible for. They will have to participate actively in the overall work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, and it is focused, as is very clear, in the energy sector. I ask once again that colleagues from the entire parliamentary group reflect on this issue, as the water sector needs support not only in words, but also in appropriate laws and regulations, but in legal acts we create them here. In the coming years the water operators will also be using funds under Operational Programme "Environment". They will also invest their own funds a few million a year, probably, and one support in terms of control, with regard to compliance with the rhythmic composition of assessment of business plans, quality of water services, including what the Bulgarian Water Association considers and is implemented, including with the support of the World Bank for comparative assessment and analysis of water operators with a view to improving their efficiency, or knowingly not using the word "Benchmarking" if it is more familiar to colleagues in the industry, it is about the comparative assessment and analysis of water operators. All this will also be part of the work of these water commissioners - two people for a whole water sector that is so important to every human being and in this room. Without electricity, colleagues, it seems to me that pó can survive rather than without water, but maybe I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u23	Thank you, dear Assoc. Gorgeous. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr Nedev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Veliv, yes, without water we cannot live, and this is very important. But if you noticed, in my statement, I didn't stop at the number of members with water competence. I did it deliberately and did not comment on the number of Commissioners at all. This issue, as set out in the Bill, we accept it to the extent that these people could work together, given that, until the meetings of the Commission itself, at which I have examined, there is much expert work by the specialists, by the administration of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. When they prepare their report for the Commission, even in the course of its preparation, even if there are two experts in the water, they could discuss in detail all the motives of those who have prepared the report and stop or improve, so to speak, its quality. With regard to energy in the proposed option. We agree with it, because in recent years, given the diverse requirements that have been set by international organisations from Europe, from an environmental point of view and so on, energy has developed in different directions, which have been quite unusual for example 15 or 20 years ago. Since the optimization of the composition of such bodies is imperative, we therefore propose to stop at the number of commissioners as proposed, only with this addition that we add a lawyer and economist and together with the President in our version, which I have not announced, it is found that the composition of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will be of eight people.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u25	Thank you, dear Mr Nedev. The next person to sign up for a speech is the People's Representative Kiril Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the proposed Bill there are three ideas for amending and supplementing the Energy Act: lifting the level of the regulator; dividing the activities of the Energy and Water; and new requirements for the commissioners. The bill provides for a new approach when choosing the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and for it to be carried out by us, by Parliament. Firstly, only Members of Parliament and parliamentary groups may make a proposal for the members of the Commission, including on behalf of non-governmental and specifically listed organisations under Paragraph 6. This basically means that even if there are much better experts who want to participate in the selection process, their professionalism cannot even be noticed if they do not find a way to be supported by MPs or parliamentary groups. The above circumstance is not changed by the obligation laid down in the Bill to publish proposals and professional biographies, as such will be published subsequently only to the selected candidates. To avoid this, it is much more appropriate to request participation in the intended process of choosing not to depend at all on the politicians from a procedural point of view. In practice, this means that anyone who is interested in taking up the position concerned and believes that he meets the requirements must have the right to submit his application directly by sending an application and supporting circumstances. In this there would be nothing new, it is enough to look at the method of applying to the administration both for the institutions in the European Union and for most positions in every state institution in Bulgaria. There is no obstacle for the National Assembly to establish a procedure for selecting those proposals from all those made that can and should be discussed in plenary. This selection could also be made by the two committees for the monitoring of the SEWRC. Secondly, the bill removes the requirement that at least one Commissioner be a lawyer and at least one economist (§ 5). It is not appropriate for an institution in which the majority of the functions envisaged are directly related to regularity, economic analysis, legal analysis, including European Union law, enforcement and control over the implementation of legally binding decisions with a very strong economic component, action as a dispute settlement body, and others. From such a point of view, it would be interesting, for example, to discuss financial issues from the Commission (§ 7), provided that there is not one member who understands this matter. Third, low requirements for professional internship, 10 years of general internship and 5 years of specialized energy or internship in the water. For comparison, according to the Single Classifier for the posts in the administration, 6 years of professional internship is required for the office of the Head of Sector. Five are required for such a responsible position as a member of the regulator. The bill also contains a rather strange attempt to define what is a professional experience in energy. Analyses in this regard can be long, but it is interesting, for example, how lawyers will prove their expertise in this regard with specific restrictions on the dissemination of information about their clients, which the Law of Law provides. Four. Strangely solved is the issue of the necessary.... what Mr. Velikov also talked about for decision-making. According to the bill, paragraphs 5 and 7 of the proposal concerning the amendments to art. Art. 12 and Art. 13, it appears that the Commission's meetings on water services are regular if two people are present who have to decide by majority. This is because the so-called "water supply and sewerage" composition would normally consist of three people and there are requirements for two thirds for regularity of the meeting. The approach doesn't sound serious. Five. The bill lays down rules for the work of the Commission and the administration....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I quote:.. by assessing the benefits and harms of their decisions................................................................................... The Commission's decision-making obligations should be linked to the implementation of the law and market developments, taking into account the interests of all participants in it and not to analyses of benefits and damage in advisory mode, and to the public. Let us not forget that the Commission's decisions in a broad sense are subject to judicial review. In conclusion, the bill definitely contains good and necessary ideas for changes related to strengthening the independence of the SEWRC and greater transparency in its work. Legally, however, some of them need to be reconsidered and others need to be refined at second reading. At the same time, the proposed bill does not at all contain a hint of improvement of a very important element, which is a leading criterion for independence. The State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is legally placed in a position not to depend on the state budget, but in parallel it is highly dependent on other institutions on how the formation is distributed through its activities. The order established in this regard is clearly far from perfect, since the Commission has actually fallen, including recently, in a situation of inability to effectively secure its operational activities. It is important for the regulator to pay the experts to compete with that of other energy activities and not only. The principles of financing and incentive must be clearly laid down at the level of law. The ABB group will support the bill at first reading, at second reading we will make proposals for these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsochev. You have the floor for lines, honourable Members of the National Assembly. There are no lines. The next person to sign up for a speech was the people's representative Ramadan Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I see that the debate that is going on in this House is as if very uninteresting, but everything that is happening today will then have an impact on the price of electricity. This is the Commission which, in fact, defines and subsequently pays the service received. This is the Commission, which has, in fact, created an atmosphere in recent years that is necessary for the tranquility of politicians or to stir up spirits in society. This is the Commission, which had to be truly independent from the day on which it was appointed, but for one reason or another during all these years it was under the influence of either the Minister of Economy and Energy at the time of the BSP administration, include the DPS, or directly under the influence of the Prime Minister during the management of GERB. Dear colleagues, today's debate is very important. Today's debate is essential from the point of view that if we do not make the right decision today, including the Strategy for the Development of Energy and the Economy of Bulgaria, which we expect...... will probably come into consideration at any moment in the National Assembly........................... we will have attitudes on how and how the energy will be developed in Bulgaria. I'll start with the Third Energy Liberalization Package. Imagine that we have liberalized the entire energy sector. Then the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission or the Energy Regulatory Commission will be that body that should not deal with anything other than regulating transmission should regulate only the ECO. All those fees and supplements currently allocated to the producers concerned or to the relevant energy producers will be charged to the electricity supply operator. Then, if today it is about five, six euros per megawatt, imagine that it will reach somewhere around 70-80 BGN, at least in the accounts we have now. Dear colleagues, my request is to abstain from who and how will be appointed to this Commission, how many members this Commission will have; whether this Commission will be Mr. Delyan Dobrev or Mr. Valentin Nikolov; whether there will be some other people who will be close to the government or to the opposition. Let's go in the order of what we are gathered here today to make a decision. The first thing I can think of is the cuckoo who lays her eggs in someone else's nest. I absolutely do not accept to consider a bill proposed by a prime minister of a caretaker government who has absolutely no concept of energy. Nevertheless, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms during the Commission meeting said that we would support this law, because it is not that you support, not that you support the philosophy of this law, because you are following the idea that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has been demanding for a long time. The Energy Committee or, if we now decide that it should be a separate Water Regulatory Commission, to be elected by the National Assembly so that this Commission can finally be independent. Not to be influenced by either the Prime Minister or the Minister of Economy and Energy. Honourable Members, the main idea of this Commission was that the determination of the production costs of production companies, the costs of transport, the costs of distributions, to be presented to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and already this Commission, without the intervention of political parties, by setting the real costs, to determine the price of electricity. Dear colleagues, today the costs incurred in Bulgaria for the production of electricity and the transmission of electricity are not covered by the amounts or bills paid by the population and the business, respectively, because there is political interference. The salaries or revenues of the population are not enough to cover the costs of energy consumption, and it is here today that I will appeal for the first time - it is high time for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to become in its role so that it can cover the shortages of only those families who are energy poor. We cannot force the production plants to produce electricity or the National Electricity Company to sell the relevant electricity at a loss. This is the activity, this is the work of the Committee on Energy and Water Regulatory and today the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support this bill in the part of the Commission being elected by the National Assembly. There are certain goals here, and I don't want to read them, but there is a certain recognition. Importers acknowledge that this Commission has not worked transparently so far. Imagine, in the objectives of this bill, the importer says: "We will choose a new committee in order to work, to have more transparency. Colleagues, transparency or there is.. it cannot be more or less, or there is none. If the Commission is elected by the National Assembly, we believe that the National Assembly will already have the opportunity to require the relevant reports and reports of this Commission to be considered in the National Assembly and not in the cabinet of the Minister and the Prime Minister. Then I ask myself the question, if we choose the Commission in the National Assembly, is it necessary to have supervision or supervision of the Committee on Energy and Water Regulatory? If, as we are going to propose between first and second readings, I support Mr. Velikov not to have half activities, we should do two normal committees for water regulation and the Energy Regulatory Commission. Then should we make the Water Regulatory Monitoring Commission? Will we increase the number of committees of the National Assembly depending on the participation of parties in the government, or will we optimize the governance so that it is for the benefit of society? Dear colleagues, we support the basic idea in the bill. I'll focus on the number of members of the committee. The main idea is to increase the level and activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, in addition to being transparent, to carry out its duties as a controlling body. Today, the people and the MPs we are present in this House are asking ourselves the question: is the price of the electricity we pay real? In order to establish whether the price is real, we must have loaded the commission with that task in order to control those investments that are determined to be made in the relevant production or distribution enterprises. We do not know today, since the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has set a certain amount for investments, e.g. in electricity distribution companies, whether these investments are real or not. The audit made to these enterprises is currently in a year or at least three, and during that time the people who pay the price of electricity are not convinced that they pay just as much as the costs of production, transmission and delivery of the service to the final customer are incurred. Therefore, between first and second readings, we will make a proposal that the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC) will have the opportunity to monitor and control the order from production to supply in all enterprises that produce and distribute energy throughout the year. Dear colleagues, there are many gaps in the bill, but after I said that the cuckoo lays eggs in someone else's nest, there can be no gaps. In the Transitional and Final Provisions and the Administrative Provisions, there are still provisions where the Minister must take direct part in the imposition of the specified sanctions. I am convinced that these gaps between first and second readings need to be refined, to enter into dialogue with the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, to make the relevant public discussion, and indeed this time to make the Commission that we will choose to perform those functions with which we, the National Assembly, will load them. Thank you. I believe that with our support the bill will be adopted at first reading, and between first and second reading all that is not foreseen is not refined, and what is written only with the idea of changing the number of members of the committee in order to change the current one, I think will be dropped as a vision and the National Assembly will be at the height that society expects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Dear colleagues, you have the floor for lines. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Atalay, in principle, the line is a disagreement with the speech of a Member of the National Assembly. With this line, I disagree with your entire 12-minute speech. Twelve minutes You spoke any other general talk, but not a word on the proposed bill, which has 18 paragraphs. You didn't say a word on any of them. We have heard general edifying lessons about how much it was necessary for the SEWRC to have, how it worked, how it didn't work, how much it was necessary, notice, for the tranquility of politicians, whatever that means. You said such nonsense that you just... I tried to write them down because this would be the basis of a very interesting future publication about the nonsense that are being said in the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. Absconding from what composition the SEWRC will have, how many members will be, with what mandate and so on. How do we abstract ourselves, Mr. Atalay, when this is the subject of the bill? This is what the text of this bill commented. Let's talk about the Ministry of Labour, social compensation for electricity, what were the supplements to the price of electricity, anything else, anything else, anything but basically. By the way, I am impressed that you made such a statement in committee. I am expressing my strong disagreement against this type of statement. I am no longer just talking about you, and it is a procedure to Mr. Glauchev: be so kind as to take away the floor when talking about everything else, only not on the subject of the point and question at issue. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u31	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Mr. Atalay, will you take advantage of the right to the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, let us return to the bill, which is an amendment and an addition to the Law on the State Energy Commission. The public expects us today to be at that height and to adopt those decisions with which we will allow the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to be independent, not under the influence of SKAT TV and not under the influence of certain people who have no knowledge of energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u33	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Next statement by the National Representative Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! To begin with, I would suggest that the vote on the amendment and the supplement to the Energy Act should be postponed. My motives for this offer are as follows. The first thing I need to draw attention to is the proposal that the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission be renamed, to remove the word "state." Why, guys? What are you ashamed of or afraid of? Why should the State Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory proceed to disband, figuratively speaking? Aren't you trying to repeat Greece's example six months ago - October - if I'm not mistaken - exactly the month of July - when the Greek Parliament, despite the big protests of the opposition, of the entire civil society, privatized 30% of Greece's National Electricity Company? Perhaps this is a way of disbanding the National Electricity Company and you should say it openly. "Those who propose this thing to fall the word of state by the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission that this is the first step towards disbanding the National Electricity Company! I understand that the right-wings in this room, which are against the word'state', will immediately jump and replicate. I want to tell them that they should be ashamed of their right, extremely harmful reactionary policy in the last 20 years. With this disbandment you've done, you've actually dismantled the country. At the moment, what is being done and is being proposed to remove the word "state" from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is scandalous and outrageous. Whoever from you voted for such a thing means that he wants us to follow the wicked Greek example of the dissolution of the National Electricity Company of Greece, respectively of Bulgaria. Point two. To specify which meetings will be closed. I am strongly opposed to the implementation of closed meetings, except in exceptional cases. Why are closed meetings being held? Shall I tell you why I have a dirty secret of the Bulgarian Parliament? This request, by the way, belongs to the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, but is supported by the GERB Party. I therefore accept that this is a proposal from the GERB Party. Why? Well, so that the public doesn't know how the lobbyists of the RES, of the photovoltaics, of the water plants lobby for their interests in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. In fact, I believe that whoever of you will vote on this point for closed meetings of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is obliged to stand before the vote and state whether it is in conflict of interest. Do you know why I'm making this offer? Because last year, Dr. Konstantin Trenchev, Chairman of KT Support, announced that in this and last parliament there are more than 140 members of parliament who own the RES. I insist that every one of you who will vote for the introduction of closed meetings of the SEWRC, which I hope will remain the SEWRC, and not just the National Electricity Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, will stand up and announce that it does not have RES! And I'm going to propose that this be voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u35	Are you going to announce?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u36	Yes, ma'am, I will declare the same. I also propose that the members of the Commission, which we will elect, should be checked before the vote, so I propose that the vote should be cancelled if they have any conflicts of interest, and not after they become members of the Commission to be examined, as under the current Rules of Procedure. Finally, the Commission's share of water and electricity in two parts. Gentlemen, this is very similar to the vicious experience that Party GERB and its loyal servants from the quadruple coalition propose that the Supreme Judicial Council be divided into two councils of prosecutors and judges. I'm not getting into the lawsuit, but I'm getting into the energy-water case. Obviously, it is a rude, vulgar lobbying that will be applied in this division of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. By the way, here to clarify something very important that was admitted by this Parliament when we voted on the relevant committees and their chairmen. It is not normal for the State Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, which is commanded by a person elected by parliament, which is the ruling party, the Parliamentary Commission, which controls the State Commission, to be again headed by a man Mr. Veselinov, by the ruling coalition. But it's the vice of our work and it's not the first, and it's not the last. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u37	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Dear colleagues, you have the floor for lines. Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u38	My fellow Members, my line will be very brief. Whenever Mr. Enchev speaks about the problems of the pensioners, I listen carefully and I do not allow myself to replicate, however, by speaking on the issues of judicial reform and the Judicial Council has already become a little too much for me, so I allow myself that line. Mr. Enchev, you just haven't read the bill or the motives. There it is very clear why the Commission cannot be called more State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and it is stated that such a commission, i.e. a State Commission, can only be a committee of the Council of Ministers. If you open the Administration Act and read what is written in art. 50, I hope things change for you. But all this for your convenience is also in the motives that you obviously haven't read. Therefore, I will not comment on the rest of your speech. I will only dwell on this division that you have so sharply attacked. I think that so far all those who have spoken have supported it and it has become clear that a division of the Commission's energy and water sector will actually improve its work and it will work much more effectively as more attention is being paid to the energy sector at the moment. Otherwise, in order not to neglect the water sector, the Commission is divided into two and each is already actively working on its area. So that's it, it's nothing complicated. Just read them and you'll understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u39	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Kirilov for line two. And Mr. Valeri Simeonov for the third.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u40	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Enchev! So it turns out the lawyers are going to replicate you, and we're going to object to you in the same way. Purely formal is the right reason for dropping the notion of state-owned. The colleague explained and referred to the motives. Please also see the State Administration Act. This isn't privatization. The fact that he is dropping out of state does not in any way alter the status and state character of the committee in question, but only its subordination by the electoral body of the Council of Ministers. It will be just a commission because the appointing authority is different. I also did not understand the relationship between the separation of two chambers of the Supreme Judicial Council and the possible separation of the SEWRC. There was a kind of broadcast, suggestion in that direction, but please specify.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u41	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u42	Mr. Enchev, so as a former colleague at SKAT TV, I would recommend that you set aside a higher level because people will think that Skat TV is working people like Ramadan Atalay. Don't do that! When you get up to speak, you'll get to the point! When you haven't met the legal base, just don't take the floor! You do not have the obligation, as in Skat TV, to have a broadcast every night and to speak on every subject. [[Laughter and screams: "Bravo!" by GERB.]] Get to the point. I will not comment because there was too much emotion and too little understanding and professionalism in your speech, so I will not comment. But I do not like the fact that you have asked everyone to declare whether they have RES or not, as if there is almost no condition to take part in this process or in the Commission, or almost not in its choice. But I don't agree with the fact that you are thus instilling the understanding that RES is some kind of harmful technical facility that harms Bulgaria and humanity. It's not like that. Renewable energy sources are the future of energy throughout the world because they draw not stock raw material, but draw energy from nature. This is the sun, which is free, the wind, which is free. So be careful with these suggestions, because you can largely mislead some of your fans if you have them. In conclusion, I would urge both you and everyone else to speak from this tribune on issues related to SEWRC and energy to declare whether they have fans at home. Be also good when you come to declare if you have a fan, or if you do not have a fan at home. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u43	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Mr. Enchev, you have the floor for the back. I hope you do not clarify media problems from the parliamentary platform, but concentrate on the bill for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u44	I make a professional remark, let it be heard well by the Bulgarian media. In the Bulgarian Parliament there is an energy mafia. This mafia is one of at least 140 MPs who own... [[Loud noise and lines on the right. Revelations: "Eeeeeee! "]] I quote Dr. Konstantin Trenchev, please contact him if you want to file cases. One hundred and forty people, according to Dr. Konstantin Trenchev, in the Bulgarian Parliament own the RES. On the issue.. the professional-expert speech of Mr. Simeonov. Mr. Simeonov, currently the high price of electricity is due to the criminal decision of the pre-government party here in this room, which has decided in the last months of its management to give licenses to RES for the purchase of electricity. The high price of electricity is due to two factors: the abnormal prices of the two U.S. thermal power plants For the first responsibility is the Reformation bloc and their former leader Ivan Kostov, whose time contracts with the two US TPPs were concluded. I hope today Mr. Boyko Borisov will put the question to the US Secretary of State John Kerry to renegotiate these criminal contracts for the TPPs. Secondly, high prices, abnormally high prices and early contracts by the government of Boyko Borisov for inclusion in the energy system of these RESs. So, if we are talking about expertise, Mr. Simeonov, I am the expert, because what I say the whole Bulgarian people, the whole expert community in Bulgaria, means it. Will any of you stand up and say that what I'm saying is a lie? Is it a lie that the mix of the cost of both American temes and renewable energy brings enormous domestic electricity prices? Any one of you who has anything against this my thesis, and I doubt anyone will dare say it, serves the energy mafia that has its lobby here in Parliament. At least 140 MPs are directly interested in this. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Konstantin Trenchev, I quote Mr. Trenchev, nothing else. I repeat my proposal: in voting on the closed meeting point of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, each of us must stand up and say that he, his wife, his family does not own and are not related to RES. Otherwise, it is not the Bulgarian Parliament, but the parliament of the Bulgarian energy mafia. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u45	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Just to remind you that there is a legal requirement which, before each vote, forces the MPs to state whether they have such a conflict of interest. For the next speech, the People's Representative Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will start by saying that the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party will vote abstention for this bill and I will explain why. Because in principle, the idea of changing the status of the State Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory and increasing its independence by introducing the procedure for the election of its members from the National Assembly is something that we have proposed and today we therefore support a hundred percent. [[Reply by MP Delyan Dobrev.]] Unfortunately, this is the only thing in this bill that can be supported. This is not only the opinion of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, it is the opinion of all colleagues who spoke here. Because of all the paragraphs that are in the Law on Amendment and the Supplement to the Law on Energy, by removing those paragraphs that are related to the name of the Commission, whether it will be state or not, as we have already explained why it cannot be state, all the other paragraphs have specific, I would say, conceptual remarks that cannot be accepted by us and that is precisely why we will vote abstention. I will ask the Chair of the Committee to do so, as I see what is set up and that this law will, anyway, be adopted by the National Assembly at first reading, procedually to propose the maximum period for amendments and additions by the Members of the National Assembly, so that we can still make at least a minimum attempt to do so... [[Reply by MP Delyan Dobrev.]] As long as the maximum deadline is so that we can make a minimal attempt to improve the things that we think are not good. I will now specifically mention what this is about and what we, as a party, do not agree with and we believe it needs to be changed. First of all, § 7, where we have a proposed way of dividing the committee into two members with a general chair to lead the meetings. In our view, this is inappropriate and creates prerequisites for the inefficient work of the committee as proposed. In this regard, or we must maintain the current model of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which exists, or.. but this is now a matter of a completely different kind of relationship and is related to the State Budget Act... to create two separate independent regulators to deal separately with the water services separately with the energy. You understand that, as proposed, provided that we have two people dealing with water services and a general chairman who, as Figaro, must run from one meeting to another, in a situation where decisions must be made with two thirds of the composition concerned, has the possibility of blocking the activity in relation to the water services. In our view, the other thing that should be changed is § 5 of the bill. First of all, it is noted that the qualification requirements for the members of the committee are reduced. It is written that they must have ten years of experience, of which at least five years of experience in energy or at least five years of service in the water service. I would like to mention that, according to the Single Classifier for taking office by the state administration, I am talking about a director, not a higher level, because I think the commissioners are significantly higher than a director in the public administration, and it requires professional experience not less than seven years. That is, if we accept the proposal that has been made here, we will introduce that, for the Commissioner of the VAC, he can become a person who has no professional experience to become director of the state administration. In my opinion, it should be raised at least seven years old, and given the responsibilities these people have to bear, and the qualifications they should have, better at ten, but, again, I say, the minimum should be seven years of professional experience. I believe that the experience gained in consulting, as well as the experience of law practice, must be dismissed, as it is very difficult to prove such experience...... that this experience has been exactly five years, that it has been special and only in this area as a consultant and a lawyer. In my opinion, the point should be laid before the experience gained in consulting. I would say that the composition of the committee that is being proposed is also somewhat downgraded - four members of energy, two members of the water service. I must tell you that the Commission's decisions have a macroeconomic aspect. Without an economist in its composition, there is no way to guarantee the regulatory effects on energy enterprises on one side and on society on the other. I mean, an economist, in my opinion, must have. By the way, this is also the opinion of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I think the co-workers are convinced it's necessary. Among other things, the Commission acts, figuratively speaking, given the procedure under which its decisions are made and appealed, such as a first instance court, which in practice means that there must also be a lawyer who can appear in the relevant cases and defend its interests, that is to say, we are adding two more lawyers and economists, who can also be used in the day-to-day activities of forming the policies which the Commission aims at pricing as an influence on society, such as the protection of complaints.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u47	Mr. Ermenkov, would you like a time extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u48	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u49	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The other thing I would like to say in particular is that we have entered here with the representatives of the Patriot Front in a small dispute and, if necessary, I will motivate why we believe it is necessary for a Commissioner to deal with sustainable energy development, because in relation to the transposition of European legislation in the area of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, there are things that are related to costs and activities that need to be demonstrated and protected as savings and effects. This information cannot be made in any other way than to be included in the activities of the SEWRC. A major problem that we see in the bill is that there is no financial autonomy of the regulator, which will in fact not lead to the actual one. Not to mention that, in the existing provisions, the fees charged under the Energy Act, here I quote the opinion of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, to be treated as State claims, leads to the vicious practice to repeatedly exceed the budget that the Ministry of Finance has set for the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, thus, on the one hand, the Commission does not have sufficient means to carry out its powers and, on the other, the final customers in energy and water services are hidden from the State through the inclusion in the prices of regulated services of the full amount of the fees. Among other things, financial autonomy is a mandatory condition for the independence of the Commission, regulated in art. 35, p. 5 of Directive 2009/72/EC and it is necessary to transpose it into national law. In § 6, where the election of the commissioners is referred to, there are no defined rules for the selection of candidates for commissioners, it is not clear by which criteria they will be selected by the table of proposed commissioners, what the methodology will be. Here they mentioned that there are some senseless inclusions of the regulator's obligations, I think Mr. Simeonov mentioned this thing, such as respecting the Constitution of the country, the laws, respecting and respecting the rights of the citizens, that is, something that is pointless, because it is a common obligation of all, and it does not need to be entered into a law. In fact, as you see from all paragraphs, except in part § 4, where the choice is indicated to be made by the National Assembly, in all other paragraphs, except those concerning names, there are conceptual discrepancies that do not allow us to support the law in this form. Once again, I repeat that we are about the commissioners in the SEWRC to be elected by the National Assembly, but for everything else, provided that this law is passed by the National Assembly, we will have relevant concrete proposals. Our idea was for this law to be withdrawn and given a month and a half to make a normal, fine law, in which to reflect the amendments that are needed in the State Budget Act and all other laws that have cashiership towards it, but as I see, the setting is to be adopted, so one more time I say we will vote abstention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. You have the floor for lines. Here you go, Mr. Stoev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will give my reply to Mr Ermenkov in connection with the extension of the composition of the Commission because he said it is good to have an economist and a lawyer at the meeting. President Svetla Todorova said that there are eight lawyers who may be few because they appear in cases that are territorially defined where the violations are, there they appear in cases, but right in the composition of the commissioners to have a lawyer, I think that this is unnecessary and it is a swelling of the Commission. I think it is not appropriate and, as you have called it, a Commissioner for Sustainable Energy Development, who deals with the effects, the savings, the transposition of European legislation. From this point of view, I think that commissioners are sufficiently literate people and you should really get acquainted with European legislation and not have a special commissioner who will further dose them with sustainable energy development and the transposition of European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u53	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u54	Mr. Ermenkov, we also had a debate at the Commission. With many of your proposals, they are proposals from colleagues from almost all parliamentary groups in terms of the minimum experience required, the number of commissioners, their responsibilities, we have unanimity. However, I cannot agree with you, and because you have repeated several times, I am forced to take a reply that you supported the idea of choosing from the National Assembly of Commissioners in the SEWRC. That's not true! We need to make this clear. On the contrary! You rejected this bill in the forty-second National Assembly, if you remember, and if you do not, I will ask the administration of the National Assembly to show you the bill rejected then which we submitted. In fact, this same bill is being submitted for the third time in the Forty-first National Assembly, when the time has not come to be adopted, once in the Forty-second National Assembly, when you rejected it, and this is the third attempt to elect the commissioners of the SEWRC on behalf of the National Assembly. In the rest of the speech you made, we have to a large extent a similarity in what is thoughtful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u55	Third line, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u56	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Regarding the presence of a lawyer and economist, I will repeat the words of the colleague who took the first line. But I also think that in the presence of eight lawyers and a certain legal department, there are also people who are economists in the same way, I think it is not necessary that a separate lawyer or economist be included in the composition of the Commission. Moreover, as far as I understand it, you would support a proposal of ours to divide the Commission into two parts only for energy and only for water and water.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u57	Two separate committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u58	Yeah, on two separate committees. From this point of view there should already be a lawyer everywhere, everywhere an economist, everywhere there should be one for sustainable development. I think it's going to be a purely administrative burden on them as a number of employees, and it's getting a little redundant. I do not agree with your proposal. To conclude my remark, I appeal to you not to prejudge you personally, because you are definitely one of the specialists in your group, such a definite abstention regarding this bill, but to enter into a discussion between first and second reading as a professional, to make it possible to improve this law, because as far as I understand it, you generally agree to transfer as a choice from the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly. From then on, the number, whether or not certain specialists will participate, I think it is a matter of detail. I urge you very well not to take a firm position to abstain or reject this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u59	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u60	Madam President, honourable Members! The fact that there are eight lawyers in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission means that there are people to prepare facts, materials, references, the relevance of legal matter at all, if I may call it that. But if there is no commissioner-jurist, there is no one to represent the Commission during meetings of the Supreme Administrative Court in order to defend its positions, because the only ones responsible for the decisions are the commissioners. In addition, remember that the Commission is not a body which is hierarchically built by one president and remaining subordinate commissioners, but a collective body where each commissioner is responsible for the things he takes and protects. When we talk about decisions that need to be taken and signed, it is obvious that the level at which they need to be taken and signed professionally must be high enough, so I propose and I think that here with regard to economists and financiers we have little difference in whether or not there should be in the Commission. And now the Commission, which is, supports this thing. As for whether there will be a Commissioner for Sustainable Energy Development, there are motives here on which it needs to be done. But let's do this between first and second readings, so we don't go into the specifics that should then be done by the methodology for the adoption of laws. Mr. Simeonov, we are not against the Law, so we will not vote against it. But at the same time, we want to express again with the vote abstention that it is not a law that really meets the expectations of the Bulgarian people. Nothing more! Of course, between first and second readings we will apply all skills and knowledge, as far as we have them, to try and find together as a national representation, regardless of their party affiliation, those solutions that will benefit the Bulgarian people and for the benefit of the Bulgarian energy and the water sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Until now, a representative of GERB's Parliamentary Group has not spoken. Mr. Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the activities of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and even more the effect of its work are undoubtedly one of the most important ill topics in recent years. There are many doubts as to how, how it works, to what extent its decisions are based on a transparent and expert point of view. Even the last few speeches by some of the colleagues were focused, unfortunately, not so much on the principle and objectives pursued by the Bill, but on its separate details, points, separate paragraphs. I believe that we should focus mainly on the objective of why we are doing this, why this bill should be adopted. I will focus on three main motives that will make me vote for this Bill. The first and most important of all three is perhaps the way commissioners should be chosen in the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. We certainly need this, and this is not only a finding, colleagues, but the World Bank has since 2013 been about raising capacity, on the fact that commissioners need to be a higher level. There can be no higher level than being elected by the National Assembly. Although a procedure by the National Assembly sometimes requires more time, it also requires more compromises. After all, the election of the National Assembly commissioners will undoubtedly be one step, will raise the level, will increase the step at which the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission should be. The second thing that will make me vote for this Bill is transparency. There have been speeches in the Energy Committee that not every single meeting should be broadcast directly and be so transparent because there are indeed meetings that need to be closed. In any case, if we can, between the first and second votes, make concrete changes and really ensure that the Commission takes its decisions transparently and that society has the maximum opportunity to participate in the taking and viewing of important items on its agenda. The third point, which I believe is very important and is enshrined in the Bill and on the motives of the Council of Ministers, is precisely the Commission to be divided into two configurations. We have very much come into the subject of whether to be three, four, whether to be two separate compositions, whether to have separate presidents, but here the meaning is quite different. The main goal is to give impetus, and I will vote with two hands for this not only for the part of the electric power industry, because in recent years, perhaps that is where we have focused more attention from society and from all parliamentary groups, but also to give impetus, to give priority to the water sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u63	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u64	You know that this is one of the sectors that I would honestly say that the state and municipalities are somewhat indebted to. This is a sector that requires more than 11 billion in gross accounts. lv. investments precisely to improve the network on which this water flows. One of our most valuable riches is water, and at the beginning of the 21st century we have more than 60% losses on the transmission network. This means that the state, and I say again, the municipalities, all the political parties in the last 25 years, we have something more to do, namely to improve this sector. I believe that the separation of a composition that deals only with the water sector will undoubtedly give impetus to this sector and I hope that in the coming years we will really start working more actively in this direction. These are the three main motives that will force me to vote for......................................................................................... However, I would like to make it clear to all Members in this House and to all citizens who are following this topic, regardless of how and how the commissioners will be chosen, whether transparency will be guaranteed by direct broadcasting, whether there will be one or two compositions, the most important of all these things is the extent to which political parties will seek to influence the Commission. If we go on, we do not say GERB or any other party, we are talking as a whole, trying to influence this Commission in a formal or informal way, it will never work the way it should. It must work absolutely impartially, transparently, its decisions must be based not on political principles but on economic principles. I believe that here, too, each and every one of us as a Member of the National Assembly must understand why we have come to this point. It is high time we stopped trying to make social policy through the cost of electricity and services in this sector at all. Our goal as MPs is to make the economy work, so that more people can afford the service. We are all very clear here that the price we pay for these services is not the real one and there is no way it can be that way. So we need to turn things back on.. we need to strive to develop the economy, not through political levers to influence the decision of such a committee, because then this Commission will not be independent and expert. So I hope that each and every one of us will make our reckoning, and from now on, we learn from the mistakes we have made in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u65	- What's the line? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u66	Speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u67	Okay. Prior to that, I respect the order of the groups are the reformers and this is Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting that in its election programmes and speeches there is no parliamentary group or there is no serious parliamentary group that does not promise and does not propose a change in how regulatory authorities work. What happens now? It is now so that if you ask any parliamentary group, it would state that it is necessary for important regulatory bodies to be elected by the National Assembly. The message has always been the same to colleagues on the left, for example. However, when it comes to a specific vote on such a bill, they always find reason and reason not to support it. Moreover, when they had a majority and their Prime Minister Oresharski, not only did they not propose such a bill, but also did not support such a proposal tabled by another political force. In fact, today we need to make an important decision that changes the usual course of events. The usual course of events was that whoever came to power, before the elections promised for example the SEWRC to be elected by the National Assembly, but when he came to power, he enjoyed it and saw how nice it was for the Council of Ministers to meet at a short meeting and choose the Commission as he thought it would be. The most key point in this bill is precisely this: the possibility for the SEWRC to be elected by the National Assembly after a hearing, asking questions, then every parliamentary group, even if the active independent MPs can ask their questions and answer them. So every candidate for a member of the SEWRC should have to prove whether there is a concept, whether there are ideas for the development of the sector, whether it be energy or the water sector and what it intends to do. That's the important thing. Both the people and the parties who will not support this change do so for a reason. Of course, their formal motives, motives for society are different, but the real motive is that they never wanted and would never support Parliament choosing such an important regulatory authority. Colleagues, without this change, however, we cannot change Bulgaria. If we do not change the regulators, if we leave things as before, a change in Bulgaria cannot happen. Not that this model guarantees success. Even he does not guarantee it, but it is a way in its successful implementation, in selecting suitable candidates all members of parliament will be able to offer candidates for members of the SEWRC. There will be more competition, there will be a hearing and this will enable quality because competition gives birth to quality, transparency gives birth to quality. Next, in the decisions of the SEWRC, which do not concern commercial or professional secrecy, it will be public how who voted. For many years in the SEWRC there was a clear rule that the result of the vote was public, but which commissioner how he voted quite deliberately was not public information. This has got to stop. Colleagues, as can be checked for each one of you who voted on each key decision, how you voted on every sensitive problem, each one of you years back, it is also appropriate for the SEWRC, when it is not a matter of professional or commercial secrecy, not only for decisions to be public, but also for the way of voting, the minutes of the meetings themselves are proposed to become public in order for individual responsibility to be held. Not only should parliament choose a new composition in competition, but then have a new kind of responsibility through transparency and accountability. To be seen on any key topic concerning, for example, the price of electricity or problems in the water sector, how everyone has voted. So the media can ask why he voted like that, with what motives. Now I can think of another kind of regulator that was in front of the dilemma whether to withdraw the license of a company that audited a Corporate Commercial Bank. For this regulator we now do not know which of the members voted and why the license was not eventually revoked. We can't check that. Nobody knows, and no official information. Part of the change and reform that we want to achieve in Bulgaria is this individual responsibility. To know about each of the key issues why he made a decision, why he voted in a certain way and that he could bear his own responsibility. Finally, my fellow Members, I call for a long period of time for proposals between first and second readings so that the ideas of all political parties for the improvement of this bill can be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u69	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Your parliamentary group has no more minutes to speak. Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? I won't. Mr. Honest Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! A large part of those who sounded in the discussions on the adoption of this bill were heard not once, but two and three times in the Chamber. So I'm gonna save myself a lot of the speech. I would like to say first of all that this bill achieves one of the objectives that are really important to society, and that is the legitimacy of the body. Independence, the achievement of independence from the executive power is important because you know that decades ago the State Commission is accused of obeying the executive power and any concerted decisions with it. In this spirit, I believe that we are solving this problem, unfortunately, only him. In terms of competence and composition of the Commission, things do not change. I think we've taken a lot of time to talk about plumbing specialists, for example. However, there is no record of the district of thermal engineering, for example, of the tecs. There's a lot of talk about lawyers and economists. However, it has not been said that there are economists and lawyers in the current composition of the Commission. They just have professional development in the particular area. One of the members of the water service is a lawyer, the other is an economist. They're not water engineers. In this spirit, there is no concern that the Commission will not have a qualified composition. However, regarding the collective beginning, there is something to be said because these Rules actually govern the Commission by the President, who controls the entire administration. Members participate in practice by accident, only in collective meetings, receiving materials a little earlier. I consider this an incomplete option for the loading of such an organ. We have a very good regulation, for example, in the Commission for Protection of Competition, in Financial Supervision and, therefore, which creates a good mechanism of work and solves a number of other problems that currently exist in the SEWRC. In the SEWRC, for example, there is a huge problem with complaints that have been suppressed, there may be around 4000 at the moment, and no one is responding because of the lack of capacity for the Commission itself to collectively deal with this. We also have a problem with issuing penal orders. In practice, with its current composition and with this President, the Commission had not issued any criminal decree until the first meeting of the Commission in the National Assembly which monitored them. Then, within one month, around 450 and 450 production termination orders were issued. There is therefore clearly a need to refine this aspect of the activity. Moreover, much of the suspended proceedings, not issuing criminal decrees, proved to be with violations that the previous Chamber issued, therefore there was a discrepancy. Many wonder whether this way the state is not harmed on the basis of the President's personal judgment. My personal belief is that if we raise the status of the body and make it accountable to the National Assembly, we should sign the rules on which it will work. In the texts that should appear between first and second readings, I think there should be more than functional rules, but also division of competences and alternate vice-presidents responsible for the different fields of activity. Let them be empowered to issue penal decrees, to respond to files and so on, and not everything to do, which makes the work of the Commission very difficult. In this direction, I think it should be the reflections. I think that perhaps a more complex approach, a broader discussion and the formation of a new text would be better than working on this text between first and second readings. I think, however, that's why the citizens chose us, so that even in this situation we can find the right solutions. I personally have no doubts to support this bill at first reading. However, the question is to have the time and the hearing required during the discussion between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u71	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. - What's the line? I won't. For a speech said Petya Avramova by GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I take the floor, I assume that we are already at the end of the discussion on the submitted bill, I am surprised by the position expressed by BSP colleagues to abstain from voting on this bill, because I think that there should be no national representative in this House who does not support at first reading such proposals Draft amending the Energy Act. First of all, because this bill has three things to do with it. These are: independence of the work of the regulator, optimization of his work and transparency in decision-making. Isn't that what the public is expecting from us, the voters who sent us to this room? So I am surprised by this opinion and I think it will be revised until the vote. I hope so, colleagues, because otherwise I don't know how you'd explain it to your constituents. We've been hearing all year that you're looking for transparency. Regardless of who has drawn up this bill, which government is elected or appointed, this bill is timely and it will meet these requirements that citizens have towards us to ensure this independence of the regulator, that it is not appointed by a government and colleagues from any ruling party, as we observed last year, not to leave the television studios and from there regulate the prices of electricity. Not to be used as a tool for populism and for pursuing political goals, but to be an absolutely independent body to control and regulate these relationships in public life. Here most speeches were not for the purposes and purposes of the bill. The debate has rather become a debate on second reading with the specific and has highlighted several proposals on the funding of the State Commission, on its division into two parts - whether it should only be an energy or water committee; on the internship of the candidates to be commissioners; on the number of members; on open or closed meetings. I believe that this is a debate that can be held between first and second readings. These are concrete proposals that can enter as a change in the bill at second reading. The debate about the lawyer and economist is also untenable because nowhere in this Bill is it written that there should be technical education and we should explicitly introduce lawyers and economists. Imagine that candidates are only lawyers and economists "We then need to put requirements for an engineer with technical education in the Commission. So all of this, fellow Members, are proposals for a second reading. I believe that we should all support this bill in order to meet the expectations of Bulgarian citizens and make an independent regulatory body that people can trust and make proper and independent decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u73	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Manol Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u74	Madam President, honourable Members! I've listened carefully to all the debates so far. One thing is becoming clear to me: the focus of all problems is on energy and on the energy sector. The water sector is once again the stepchild of the state. Once again, the state is in the role of stepmother to the water sector. I don't want to get into the details. I will give you an example of the inability of the composition of the Commission in the water sector to work? two members, two commissioners and one chairman. Two-thirds majority in decision-making. These three people will have a minimum of twenty days of annual leave. Blocking the work of the composition responsible for the water sector. Here the colleague from GERB covered his head with ash that really municipalities and the state did not pay attention to the water sector. The need for 11 million investments in it was highlighted. But keep in mind that we have a recommendation, a advisory report on the implementation of the Strategy for Water Sector Reform, where we need to have a separate regulator. In order not to be very wordy, I appeal to the President of the Commission between first and second readings, let the opinions of the Bulgarian Water Association, the Union of Employers in the Water Sector be taken. There you will see practical claims of the industry to legislation. You just said to rethink whether or not to abstain. Yes, we will abstain precisely because we do not want to vote on a non-working law that creates an atmosphere for part of the public service sector, making it impossible for it to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u75	Thank you, Mr. Genov. - What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Valentin Nikolov from GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u76	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, it is good that, of all the speakers, I understand that they support the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to be elected by Parliament. Of course, there are shades. Of course, the independence of this Commission should also be fully completed when there is financial independence. This is an undisputed fact, so it should be worked on. But why do we come to this point to submit this bill and to look for options precisely from Parliament to elect this Commission? This is precisely because people have shaken their confidence in the decisions that this Commission is making. People have a threshold of tolerance for all the decisions the Commission makes and therefore they want them to intervene in these decisions and control them. I remember at the end of 2012. Then Minister Dobrev had sent a delegation from the Ministry of Energy to the European Commission to be able to use the texts so that we could implement Directive 72 of 2009, precisely to seek this independence, as well as the Third Energy Package. At the time, the recommendation of the European Commission was precisely such financial independence and precisely the election by such an authority as is the supreme authority of the Republic of Bulgaria. In 2013, such a bill was made, which, you know, was subsequently rejected by the next majority of the Forty-second National Assembly. Why, though, was it rejected? Because it seems that politicians wanted to continue, I say to continue to govern or control the decisions of this Commission. Because this Commission, apart from the price of electricity that goes to end users, also forms the price of heat, water services and respectively the transmission of gas that flows through the transmission network of the Republic of Bulgaria. If you ask the left populists, the Republic of Bulgaria should be managed by two ministries: Social Ministry and Ministry of Interior. In this Social Ministry should enter absolutely all sectors so as to be complemented or subsidised by the state budget. These are, as we hear, the transportation of rail transport, these are the prices of electricity, of heat. And therefore the Ministry of Interior to protect politicians and the National Assembly for the fact that at some point the systems will not last. The State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, forming the price of electricity, takes it from producers who, notice, are commercial companies. These trading companies should form a profit. In 2013, several decisions by the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, including the beginning of 2014, seeking reservations in order to determine a lower price of electricity, led these trading companies to a liquid crisis. The NPP's profit from Kozloduy at 146 million fell to 45 million, the National Electricity Company has over 3 billion liabilities. and a half, the electrical system operator is at a loss, cannot perform a corresponding renewal of the power grid, the TPP is in liquid crisis. Do not list the colorful state of energy in Bulgaria. This liquid crisis, of course, also has a subsequent hue of lack of investment and risk to the country's energy infrastructure. I mean, it's obvious that social policy through the price of electricity shouldn't be there. The reform of the energy sector is in the executive and legislative power, which gives the conditions, gives the framework for what needs to happen in the energy sector, and the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission must take account of the state, parameters and accordingly materialize them in numbers. It is precisely the decisions on the price of electricity of the thermal power plant "Maritsa East 2" which should be in the regulatory mix, in fact deciding what to be and then the powers of the minister to raise the price of coal are seemed insane. Accordingly, at the cost of electricity of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" in the order of BGN 45 "51." She's down to 30 leva. At one point we are waiting for an extension of the resources of the V and VI bloc, we are waiting for investments in IX and X block of the TPP - Maritsa East 2 - we are waiting for the network to be renewed so that there are no accidents. That is, the quality that consumers want, apart from a low price, to be at the necessary level. That's not gonna happen. Therefore, either reforms in the energy system are needed, or an increase in the price of electricity accordingly. We are all aware here that increasing the price of electricity will be above the necessary patience of the people who consume this current. That is why we need a very urgent reform of the energy system, and that can only happen when people trust the energy regulator. That's exactly the way it's gonna happen. Of course, there are many obstructions, many things that can happen between first and second readings. Many of them agree with the negotiators. Financial stability. Let us take a look at the separation of the water supply from the energy part of the Commission with a general chairman, whether it is the best option. But this will happen in a discussion between first and second readings. If we wait a month and a half, as Mr. Ermenkov suggested, we will still go there that the energy system will cause new riots. I will personally support this bill with the idea of fixing some of the things between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u77	Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. It's an expected personal explanation. Before that, the procedure for lines. Mr. Enchev, but you don't have time, Mr. Enchev. [[turns to MP Velizar Enchev]] Because you spoke. You don't have time. They're giving me a sign. You will express your position with the way you vote. You have a line, Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Nikolov, I have listened to you carefully. As director of the nuclear power plant, I see you've made enough effort to find out what kind of system energy is. I welcome you from the stands. I will express certain disagreements with what you are trying to do, again politically, to transfer responsibility for the state of energy only to the left or to the right. In order to be in this state energy in Bulgaria today, you have certain wines and you, personally, and GERB, of course, I insist, GERB. These 3 billion.. are 3 billion 200 million, have not been accumulated only in 2013. These debts have accumulated much more in your time and much less in ours. Now the electorate has sent you here and given you the opportunity to present a concept, strategy how and how this state of energy will emerge from the National Assembly. We are therefore here and are ready to support those actions and opportunities through which energy will be stabilized with these changes in the law, changes in the composition of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, without defining them without subsequently loading them with controlling activity, the part with which we will raise confidence in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission because your management, because all governments [[the President signals that time has run out]] For one reason or another, they violated the credibility of the State Commission. And today, calling it the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, if we don't restore trust in it, we won't have done our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u79	Second line? Does BSP left Bulgaria have time? Here you go, Mr. Yankov. 17 seconds. I'll give you 20. [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u80	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Nikolov, we understand that you are worried about people's discontent with what you are about to do. The reform you are talking about will be in distributing shares of state ownership in the Bulgarian Energy Holding? Is that what you're preparing us for?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u81	He didn't say that. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u82	This is your idea in your report! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u83	Correct! Is there a third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Atalay, I didn't want to pass the blame entirely to the left or to the right. I just said that a social policy is being carried out through the price of electricity, which, of course, worsens the future investment activity of companies. This, of course, worsens the quality and the future of energy in Bulgaria at all, but because you said: "More we" -- more you -- less we -- I would like to say that if you look at the structure of the debt, the biggest debt of the National Electricity Company was accumulated in 2008, at the beginning of 2009, with payments under the projects "Belene" and "Tsankov Stone" which continued in 2009 " 2010" and are paid by the government of GERB. But the biggest deficit debt was accumulated in 2013 - 2014. Such a deficit, which currently forms the National Electricity Company, has never been. Regarding the reform Mr. Iankov spoke of, I would like to say that currently there is no provision for the sale of part of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, although this was laid down in 2008 as an idea and in 2009. For sale at 20%. And this is in one of the strategies that the Triple Coalition has made, but I hope that they then wanted to make the processes that flow more transparent in the Bulgarian Energy Holding, not the way a Municipal Bank was privatized and in which it was subsequently managed. I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u85	Mr. Ermenkov, a personal explanation to Mr. Nikolov. What has affected you, Mr. Ermenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u86	I'll explain. I won't abuse you. It's just a little... Madam President, what Mr. Nikolov said about a month and a half delaying the bill, I took it as an accusation that we wanted to drag things out, so I take it for nothing else.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u87	You're hurting yourself?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u88	Yeah. And please still take a look at the transcript. I have not made a procedural proposal in the Parliamentary Hall to postpone the adoption of this Law by a month and a half. The only thing I did was to explain that by supporting with full awareness that this is the right path, the adoption of changes to lead the election of the commissioners in the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation by the National Assembly, everything else that is written in the law, is taking serious criticism and, as you can see, not just from us, but from all parliamentary groups. And because you know the saying that the road to hell was paved with good intentions, that's why we didn't want to go down that path. That's why our idea was on a committee to draw up a law, but obviously that's not going to happen. For this reason, I repeat, there is no way to change our minds. We cannot accept things that do not act and do not contribute to the functioning of the Commission in the way it should function. And that it will only be elected by the National Assembly, but if it functions the way it is written further in the Draft Law, it will be meaningless even the election of the commissioners of the National Assembly because they will not do the work. Therefore, we will vote abstentions, not because we are opposed, but in this way we show our attitude towards quality, not the content of a section of Parliament's election, but the quality of the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. We will now take a break until 12.05, after which Mr. Kancho Filipov from BDZ and Delyan Dobrev from GERB declared a wish for a speech. At 12.05, we move on. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u90	We are continuing the plenary session. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs from the couloirs to enter the Chamber. Before the break, there were two more speeches. The first is the People's Representative Kancho Filipov. Here you go, Mr. Filipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to start by saying that the changes in the work of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission are absolutely necessary and must be carried out as quickly as possible so that the energy and water companies can have objectively defined prices and foreseeable conditions in which they will work even this year. Let's not postpone the whole process for 2016. Secondly, it is high time that we stopped the practice of saying a few months before the Commission's decision what the prices of electricity and water services should be, without analysis, without discussion, without objective criteria and then only to confirm their forecasts. There are many positive aspects in the proposed mroect that I will not dwell on. In the interest of some Members' call that we should make concrete proposals, I will only allow a few very specific proposals on individual texts of the Bill. I mean § 9, par. 2, which states that the Commission publishes on the Internet the proposals of energy enterprises for price validation, together with all output data. I do not know if anyone has submitted such declarations and forecasts to the Commission and knows what data is required. In these output data is required from the amount of phone calls to the main fuel of the steam generators. Many of these data contain commercial secrecy, so we propose that this text be refined and that only data from the official accounts of companies published according to accounting standards be published on the Internet. Secondly, my proposal concerns § 8. Are the rules that the Commission must comply with to take decisions in an impartial and transparent manner, ensuring that it and its administration act independently of market interests and so on? My doubts, my questions are as follows: what are the guarantees that these rules will be followed by the Commission?? Perhaps it should be suggested that the members of the committees fill out declarations, and what sanctions will there be if they do not comply with the rules laid down in the Law itself? I'd like to comment on removing the requirement for economists and lawyers. By education, I am an engineer, but I do not think that knowledge of how much vibrations are on a turbine or how much the volume of smoke gases in the steam generator gives us enough arguments to believe that these specialists have objective criteria for price formation. I think that in the Commission we should have both specialists who are both economists and lawyers. We can discuss an option between first and second readings to increase the Commission by two more members from 7 to 9: one economist and one lawyer to participate in the meeting of both subcommittees. One Commission will become 7-member and the other 5-member. This will overcome our doubts that a very small number of commissioners will take decisions on such important issues. In everything else, I support the proposals of my colleague Nedev, who we had discussed in the group, and we will support at first reading the amendments to the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u92	Thank you, Mr. Filipov. Dear colleagues, you have the floor for lines. There are no lines. The next statement is the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I listened carefully to the debate on the bill. It seems to me that he is coming to an end, and I am pleasantly surprised by his constructive tone. I am also surprised that a relatively clear bill caused so many comments in plenary, but they were all in the direction of improving it between first and second readings. In this sense, I intend to propose a procedural proposal. Mr. President, if you can write down and then put the vote to an extension of the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on the basis of art. 80 of the Rules of Procedure from 7 to 14 days. I propose a 14-day deadline for proposals between first and second readings so that we can make adjustments to the Bill and supplement it with other urgently needed measures in the direction of changing legislation that are urgently needed to stabilise the financial situation of the National Electricity Company. We all know that at present it is in an extremely difficult financial situation and the problem is not so much in accumulated debts and liabilities that exceed 4 billion. lv. Right now. Rather, the problem is that the deficit, which has been formed in the past year and a half, on an annual basis is between 600 and 800 million. BGN, despite the increase of 1 October 2014 at the price of electricity by the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We need to find the tools and legal texts to ease the electricity system, reduce the costs of the National Electricity Company and close this deficit, because even the price increase nowadays is not enough to solve energy problems. We need to use all the possible mechanisms that we have, the mechanisms that we can complement in the legislation so that it doesn't get there. With regard to comments on the experience and number of commissioners. The liberal model, the liberalisation of the electricity market are things that we will certainly discuss between first and second readings. These proposals and changes, which we are making between first and second readings, will solve, unfortunately, partly, but in the short term, energy problems. In the long term, as some of my colleagues have already said, we must move towards full liberalisation of the electricity market in Bulgaria. We must move towards a model where each household will be able to buy electricity from the free market, and this must happen within the next year. In this model, all the electricity produced in Bulgaria, whether produced under long-term contracts or produced with preferential purchase contracts and preferential electricity price, all these producers must sell their electricity on the free market and the state through the obligations to society collected from the ereats and the National Electricity Company must cover the difference between the preferential prices and the price achieved on the free market. In this sense, we need including a change of the model on which the market in Bulgaria works because the electricity exchange in Bulgaria, as it is designed and as it has been realized in the last few years, is unfortunately a place where very small quantities of electricity are traded. It is a model that complements the model of bilateral treaties. My opinion is that we should rather move towards a model similar to the model in some countries of Central and Eastern Europe. I can give Romania, for example, where all the electricity is traded on the free market. In this situation, and here I will correct Mr. Atalay, because he said that after this happens, the regulator will only determine transmission prices. In fact, there are not only transmission prices, I will also determine the cost of distribution, I will also determine the supplement that will be collected for irrecoverable costs. In general, yes. In this model, after this complete liberalisation of the market, the SEWRC will no longer determine the final prices of electricity. We will have a free market for electricity where all producers will compete and this will be a way to achieve the best possible price for this electricity. There is also a significant risk concerning the production of biomass electricity. We've collected statistics. In the Energy Commission, we will show you the biomass capacities currently installed, we will also show you the preliminary contracts concluded. In my opinion, this is a ticking bomb, because currently installed and operating plants are more than 40 megawatts, equivalent to over 300 megawatts of photovoltaics, if we align them to the annual amount of funds we will spend on this 40 megawatt biomass. We have dozens, if not over, 100 megawatts of additional contracts waiting to happen at any time. So we need to think about this in advance so that we do not find ourselves in a situation that we found ourselves in 2011. With too many signed contracts and a late change in the legal base in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u94	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs willing to take part in the discussion? I won't. Debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. Mr. Enchev's procedure. [[Reply by MP Delyan Dobrev.]] Your procedure will be put to the vote after we vote on it if it is adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I refer to the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 143. I remind you of that if you don't have that gray book in front of you. I read: "In the submission of drafts, statements or votes in plenary or in a committee, a Member of the National Assembly with a private interest from a problem discussed within the meaning of the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest is obliged to declare it. I propose each of us who has a private interest, stepping on art. 143, declare this fact from the stand here before the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u96	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Dear Members of the National Assembly, it is correct to refer to art. 143. Until now, in the practice of the National Assembly, we have had hypotheses in which, when speaking, a Member of the National Assembly stated the existence of a private interest. What Mr. Enchev is proposing right now is that we are already in the middle of a closed debate, a vote is yet to be taken. On the occasion of this vote, Members of the Parliament who have such an interest, please state from the stand the existence of such a private interest. Parliament's leadership does not have mechanisms to oblige the MPs, all the more so that we have no obligation to know who has what private interest. If there are MPs who consider and are aware that they have a private interest, now is the time to state it. Mr. Velchev. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u97	Madam President, honourable Members, on this occasion I say that on the roof of my house I have 12 panels for photovoltaics. If you consider this a conflict of interest... [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] I'm saying it's a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u98	Mr. Velchev, I take it you're calling all the colleagues they have on their roof...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u99	I called myself. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u100	Colleagues, please, seriously! We have such an imperative provision in our Rules. I don't see anyone who wants to state the existence of a private interest. There are no MPs to state from the stand the existence of private interest, Mr. Velchev excluded in view of what he said. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act with an importer of the Council of Ministers. They voted 153 MPs: 133 against 1, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Negative vote? I won't. There's no demand for re-voting. I put to the vote the procedural proposal Mr. Dobrev made during his speech the time for proposals between the first and second reading of the bill to be 14 days. A reverse opinion? I won't. We vote on Mr. Dobrev's proposal. They voted 153 MPs: for 152, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I am informed by the Secretariat that Mr. Borisov, the Chairman of the ABB Group, voted for the EP in the vote of the Energy Act. There's a doubt as to how his voice was recorded. [[Reply.]] His voice hasn't been recorded at all. I've requested a re-vote. There was no such request. As you react in due course, we accept that you have voted for..................................................................................................... Note in the transcript that Mr. Borisov has informed the Secretariat of the National Assembly in due time that he has voted on this draft. That concludes this item on the agenda. Moving on to: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS. Proposals have been submitted as follows: On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 81, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure Tsvetanov Tsvetanov and Krasimir Velchev, respectively as Chairman and Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of GERB, have submitted the following projects for... You want to report them? Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u101	Madam President, honourable Members, I first present to you: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Anton Angelov Dolapchiev as a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. You want me to read the other proposal to vote anbloc?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u102	If you have a wish, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u103	Thank you. Colleagues, Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on European Affairs and control of European funds The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Georg Danielov Georgiev as a member of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u104	Just to clarify that these are internal changes, which are imposed by and entry of a member of the Commission from the quota of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u105	Yes, this is filling the committees because we did not have representatives in these committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u106	And it is in line with the decisions in which the representatives of the different parliamentary groups are allocated by quota.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u107	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u108	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I vote on the draft decision to complete the composition of the Commission on interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. They voted 136 MPs: 133, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We vote on Mr. Tsvetanov and Mr. Velchev's proposal for a decision to complete the composition of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. They voted 130 MPs: 126, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. A proposal came in from Mr. Valeri Simeonov. Are you going to report it or should I report it, Mr. Simeonov? [[Reply by National Representative Valeri Simeonov.]] "Project" DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Slavcho Penchev Binev as a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Statements? I won't. We are voting on this decision. Vote 126 MPs: 120 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Next item: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO CONFIRM THE INTERNAL RULES FOR THE COMMISSION'S WORK FOR CONTROL OF SECURITY, APPLICATION AND USE OF SPECIAL RECOGNITION AND ACCESS TO DATA UNDER THE ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION LAW. A report has been submitted by the Commission. We're listening, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u109	Mrs. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe to the Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications The Commission at two regular meetings held on 4 and 11 December 2014 on the basis of art. 17, para. 1, t. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly discussed the internal rules for the work of the Commission. A draft Internal Rules for the Commission's work was presented at the first meeting. During the meeting a discussion was held which concluded with concrete proposals for additions to the project so proposed. The Commission's internal rules were voted on at the second meeting held on 11 December 2014. The Commission adopted the Internal Rules and proposed to the National Assembly to confirm them with: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the validation of the Internal Rules for the Work of the The Commission for the Control of Security Services, the Implementation and Use of Special Intelligence Means and the Access to Data under the Electronic Communications Act The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 17, para. 1, t. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Confirms the internal rules for the work of the Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u110	You should also read the rules themselves, as they are also promulgated in the Official Journal, together with the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u111	? Internal rules on the order and operation of the Commission for the Control of Security Services, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications Art. 1. These Internal Rules govern the order and work of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the use and application of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications at the Forty-third National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Commission. Art. 2. The Commission organizes and implements its activities on the basis of the Constitution, the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, the Law on Special Intelligence, the Law on Electronic Communications, the Law on State Agency, the Law on Armed Forces and other regulatory laws and regulations. Art. 3. In accordance with the Bulgarian legislation, the Commission shall exercise parliamentary control over: 1. National Security Agency (DANS); 2. The National Intelligence Service (NRA); 3. National Security Service (NCO); 4. Office of Military Information (M.O.); 5. State Agency for Industrial Operations (DATO); 6. The State Commission on Information Security (DXI); 7. The National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means (NBSRS). Art. 4. The Commission exercises parliamentary control over the security services for the legality as well as the appropriateness of their actions based on the existing strategic documents on the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria and the concluded international treaties. Art. 5. The Commission shall be represented by its President and, in his absence, by an authorised Vice-President. Art. 6. The Commission shall hold regular and extraordinary meetings to be convened by its Chair and, at the request of at least one third of its members or the President of the National Assembly. The meetings shall be chaired by the President of the Commission and, in his absence, by a Vice-President appointed by him. Art. 7. The President of the Commission shall announce the agenda for regular meetings at least three days before they are held under the methods laid down in the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the Assembly. In cases where extraordinary meetings are held, the agenda for them shall be announced at the same time as their timing. Art. 8. The Commission shall meet when at least half of its members are present. If, after the time for the opening of the meeting, the quorum is not available, the Commission may also meet with the composition available where it is not less than one third of all its members. Decisions shall be adopted by a simple majority of the members present. A complete audio recording and a stenographic protocol shall be carried out for the meetings of the Commission. The members of the Commission shall be signed on an attendance list which shall be annexed to the minutes of the meeting. Art. 9. (1) The Commission shall meet in its composition at closed meetings. They shall be attended in addition to its members and collaborators, only those who are expressly invited to be heard and for the time when the topics on the agenda are discussed. (2) After a decision of the Commission, Members of Parliament who are not members of the Commission may take part in its meetings without the right to vote. (3) In accordance with the principle of knowledge (Art. 39, para. 3 of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information) shall not be allowed to the meetings of the Commission of Members who are not members of the Commission where: 1. exercise control over completed files and completed operational affairs of the security services; 2. exercise control also of compliance with the procedures laid down in the laws and internal regulations in current operational affairs of the security services; 3. hear reports on the operational work of the security services and the state of individual components of national security; 4. hold hearings concerning the actions of the security services concerning specific security situations of the country; 5. discuss other information to be classified as state secret according to Annex 1 to art. 25 of the Classified Information Protection Act. (4) The participation of Members of Parliament who are not members of the Commission in its closed meetings, the documents and the themes with which they have been acquainted shall be noted in a special protocol signed by the same Members. Art. 10. By Commission decision-making, individual meetings of the Commission may be opened and/or exported to the relevant offices, agencies and offices. Art. 11. The Commission shall apply the necessary means of protecting classified information, including during meetings. The President of the National Assembly shall ensure the protection of the House for Commission meetings against wiretapping, recording and monitoring. Art. 12. The President of the Commission shall ensure equal access for each member of the Commission to all available information. Art. 13. The Security Services Control Commission, the use and application of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act: 1. adopt opinions on the annual reports and budgets of the security services; 2. discusses in the provisions for the organization and activities of the National Assembly the deadlines allocated to it by the President of the National Assembly, drafts for decisions, declarations and addresses of the National Assembly and prepares opinions. Where the Commission is the lead on a bill, it shall draw up the reports on its second vote; 3. regularly requires thematic reports on the work of the security services and on the state of the individual components of national security; 4. organise hearings of current and former staff of the security services, including their superiors; 5. carry out checks on compliance with the regulations and respect for fundamental human rights in carrying out the activities of the security services; 6. examine and make recommendations as appropriate for all internal regulations of the security services, including those containing classified information; 7. implement the Special Intelligence Means Act and the Electronic Communications Act parliamentary control and monitoring of the procedures under: (a) the authorisation, application and use of special means of intelligence, the storage and destruction of information obtained through them, as well as the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms against the unlawful use of special means of intelligence; (b) the authorisation and enforcement of access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, as well as the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms against unlawful access to such data. 8. present to the National Assembly annually by 31 May a report on the activities carried out under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2, p. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which contains summary data on: (a) the authorisation, application and use of special means of intelligence, the storage and destruction of information obtained through them, as well as the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms against the unlawful use of special means of intelligence; (b) the checks and proposals carried out to improve the procedures for storing and processing the data under the Law on Electronic Communications. 9. examine signals from citizens and organizations related to violations by security services officers and proposals to improve their work; 10. shall refer to the prosecution and other competent authorities for unlawful actions established as a result of Commission or national alerts; 11. inform the public of the results of its control activities through written opinions or statements to the media. Art. 14. The Commission shall be assisted by a Directorate within the specialised administration of the National Assembly. Art. 15. The President of the Commission may draw experts on civil contracts. Final provisions § 1. These Internal Rules are adopted by the Commission on the basis of art. 17, para. 1, t. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and shall enter into force after their approval by the National Assembly. § 2. The Rules on the Organization and Activities of the National Assembly shall apply to cases pending in these Internal Rules of Procedure in the work of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u112	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Debates are open. Are there any MPs who wish to take account of the Rules and the Draft Decision? I won't. I put to the vote the draft decision on validating the Internal Rules for the Commission's work on control of the security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Vote 114 MPs: for 113, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The next item of our weekly programme: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE CHANGE AGREEMENT AND THE COMPLIANCE OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION FUND ON THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE INITIATE JEREMIE IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE TALKING AGREEMENT AND COMPLIANCE OF THE FINANCIAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESITION FUND ON THE APPLICATION OF THE INITIVATIVE JEREMIE IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. We're waiting for a rapporteur. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Yordanova cannot break through the path of MPs who have dialogues with each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u113	Thank you, Madam President. I request access to the Chamber of Representatives of the Ministry of Economy: Luben Petrov
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u114	Voting mode. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We're listening, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u115	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe At its meeting held on 6 November 2014, the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance examined that bill. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism: Irena Mladenova The bill was presented by Mrs. Irena Mladenova. The bill provides for the continuation of the Framework and Financial Agreement implementing the JEREMIE Initiative in Bulgaria after 31 December 2015 until 31 December 2025, as the longest maturity at present of the loans granted under the debt instruments is up to 2025. Only the management of the instruments already created and the means representing returns from the investments made on the instruments is covered by the extended duration of the agreements. In addition, the following major amendments are envisaged: the settlement of an upper limit of funds on which management costs may be charged and which cannot exceed EUR 349 000 000; the lack of funds on the relevant accounts for the funds and the additional funds to cover management costs (in these cases, the shortfall is covered by future revenue, and the Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism does not incur an obligation to finance such a deficit); the failure and the mechanism for financing ineligible expenditure by the Structural Funds with State budget funds, as the rules for reinvesting funds are significantly alleviated. After the presentation of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance shall propose to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt by first vote the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement amending and supplementing the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Fund on the implementation of the JEREMIE Initiative in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Agreement amending and supplementing the Financial Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Fund on the implementation of the JEREMIE Initiative in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 402-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. This was the report of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. Having chosen the Standing Committees, since it was not discussed in plenary, this bill has already been reassigned to the Permanent Committee on Budget and Finance, but since it has spoken with the report of the Temporary, there is no intended report by the Permanent Committee on Budget and Finance. On behalf of the importer? There are no willing to report the bill. I'm opening the debate. Are there any MPs who wish to participate in them? I won't. Debates closed. Voting regime at first reading The ratification bill. They voted 106 MPs: 104, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u117	Madam President, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose for a second vote the newly voted ratification.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u118	There's no opposite opinion. I shall put to the vote the motion for voting in a plenary sitting at first and second reading of the draft discussion. Vote 107 MPs: 105 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Report at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u119	THE LAW OF THE ratifying the Agreement amending and supplementing the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Fund on the implementation of the JEREMIE Initiative in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Agreement amending and supplementing the Financial Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Fund on the implementation of the JEREMIE Initiative in the Republic of Bulgaria A single member. The Agreement amending and supplementing the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Fund on the implementation of the JEREMIE Initiative in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Agreement amending and supplementing the Financial Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Fund on the implementation of the JEREMIE Initiative in the Republic of Bulgaria, signed on 24 October 2014. FINAL DISCLOSURE It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u120	Statements? I won't. We are voting at second reading on the ratification bill. They voted 106 MPs: 104, none, abstention 2. The bill was also voted on at second reading. Moving on to: PROJECT FOR THE ACCEPTANCE OF THE STRATEGY FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF HIGH The bill is allocated to the Committee on Education and Science, to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Reports came in from the committees that discussed it. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. Mr. Minister, after the committee reports, I will give you an opportunity on behalf of the importer. We're listening to your report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u121	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Before that, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of Prof. Nikolay Denkov Deputy Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u122	Voting mode. Vote 96 MPs: 95 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guest. We're listening, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u123	♪ I can't believe on the Draft Decision on the adoption of a Development Strategy of higher education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014-2020, No 402-03-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 October 2014. At its regular meeting held on 4 December 2014, the Committee on Education and Science discussed the Draft Decision on the adoption of a Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2020, No 402-03-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 October 2014. The meeting was attended by Prof. Nikolay Denkov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, the leadership of the Council of Rectors, representatives of the academic community, trade union and employers' organizations. The project was presented by the importers by Deputy Minister Nikolay Denkov. The document responds to the need to formulate priority guidelines and urgent measures for accelerated modernization and internationalization of Bulgarian higher education. The problems and risks for the development of the sector are reported. The strategy sets out eight medium- and long-term objectives to achieve effective long-term results as follows: 1. Improving access and increasing the share of higher education graduates (achievement at a level of 36% higher education graduates between 30 and 34 years of age in 2020)). 2. A substantial increase in the quality of higher education and its compatibility with European higher education systems in order to take a decent place in the European Higher Education Area. 3. Building a sustainable and effective link between higher schools and the labour market and achieving a dynamic correlation between the demand and supply of specialists with higher education. 4. Stimulating research in higher schools and the development of market economy-oriented innovations. 5. Modernization of the system of management of higher schools and clear definition of the types of higher education and qualification degrees. 6. Increasing funding for higher education and science and the effectiveness of their use through an advanced funding model. 7. Overcoming negative trends in career growth of lecturers in higher schools and stimulating the best teachers. 8. Expanding and strengthening the lifelong learning network; widespread application of various electronic forms for distance learning. In order to achieve the objectives, 70 specific activities and measures are envisaged to make the proposed Strategy a tool for deep reforms in the field of higher education. The discussion on the project included MPs Borislav Velikov, Mariana Georgieva-Bancheva, Stanislav Stanilov, Milen Mihov and the present representatives of the academic community and business. The strategy was supported by the Council of Rectors, trade unions and employers' organizations. The preparation of the document was referred to as a successful but rare example of how on an important issue for the country can be worked consistently with different governments and with different National Assembly configurations. The strategy fosters the idea of stimulating quality and competition at all levels: between different universities; between lecturers at one university; between students from one professional direction. The expectations were expressed that after the adoption of the Strategy the practical work on solving many ill issues will begin: for the so-called State order................................................................................ Notes were made on some texts and it was reminded that each strategy is a hostage of its resource security. The importers thanked for the obvious consensus and clarified that most of the comments expressed were discussed in the discussions on the preparation of the document. In its final version, a balanced approach is sought between the controversial ones, because looking at the specific makes sense only if an agreement has been reached on the direction in which the Bulgarian higher education will develop. After the discussion was concluded and a vote with results was held.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. We will now hear the report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Mrs. Svetlana Angelova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u125	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe under the Project for a Decision on the adoption of a Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014-2020, No 402-03-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 October 2014. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting, held on 14 January 2015, examined and discussed the Draft Decision for adoption of the Higher Education Development Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014-2020, No 402-03-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 October 2014. The strategy for the development of higher education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2020 was presented by Prof. Nikolay Denkov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science. The strategy formulates priority guidelines and urgent measures for accelerated modernization and internationalization of Bulgarian higher education as an engine for dynamic development of the economy and building of a society based on the knowledge and progress of technology. The strategy contains an analysis of the state of the higher education system, which highlights the lack of connection between higher education and business needs and public institutions. The main challenges to overcome this lack are outlined. As a problem requiring urgent resolution, the practical preparation of students in a real working environment is indicated. The Strategy sets out eight medium- and long-term objectives to achieve effective results. In the field of competence of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy fall: Target 3. Building a sustainable and effective link between higher schools and the labour market and achieving a dynamic correlation between the demand and supply of specialists with higher education; and Target 8. Expanding and strengthening the lifelong learning network; widespread application of various electronic forms for distance learning. 9 specific activities and measures for joint actions between the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Education and Science and Business are provided for to achieve these objectives. The deadlines, indicators and institutions responsible for achieving and reporting the results are indicated. The following discussion discussed issues about: the financial provision of the implementation of the Strategy; the use of the opportunities of the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" as a complementary tool to national funding; the need for a more effective commitment of higher education to the needs of regional business; the need to carry out an analysis of obsolete and unnecessary professions and updating of the Classifier of higher education majors; the improvement of the relationship between secondary and higher education. It has been pointed out that the strategy is a result of the work of three successive governments, which is made in the presence of political consensus and in close cooperation with all stakeholders. At the end of the discussion and the vote with results: the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a decision adopting a Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014-2020, No 402-03-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 October 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u126	Thank you. On behalf of the importer, the Minister will report. Here you are, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u127	Madam President, Vice-Presidents, Vice-Presidents, Vice-President of the Education Committee, ladies and gentlemen! Today I am here to present to your attention the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014-2020 approved by Decision No 683 of 2 October of the expired year. I would like to emphasise from the outset that this is a document aimed at solving a number of accumulated problems in the field of higher education, particularly in terms of reduced quality and its weak relationship with the labour market. For the quality of the proposed Strategy, the unanimous support it received from the Education and Science Committee on 4 December and the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee yesterday, on 14 January 2015. In essence, this Strategy proposes measures for the development of higher education as a main means of developing the individual and civil society, training specialists with adequate professional realization, dynamic economic development and building a knowledge-based society and modern technologies. The document is in line with the strategic Bulgarian and European documents in this area, such as the "Europe 2020" Strategy, the National Reform Programme 2011 - 2015, the Innovation Strategy for Smart Specialization and others. This Strategy is mostly a prerequisite for the launch of the Operational Programme "Science and Education for Smart Growth 2014 - 2020" which hopefully will be a fact in these months. A detailed plan of action is also applied. The funding funds will be provided by two sources: programme funding from the national budget for the preliminary reforms in the period 2014-2020 and the funds from the European Structural and Innovation Funds, mainly through the Operational Programme The implementation of the Strategy is extremely important for the overall reform of the higher education system and for achieving a number of national and European objectives related to access and quality of education, the development of the competitive economy, reducing unemployment and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u128	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Debates are open. Are there any MPs who would like to speak? Mrs. Mariana Georgieva has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u129	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The strategy for the development of higher education in the period 2014-2020 is a document that deserves support. As has become clear from the report of the President of the Commission, we at the DPS support this Strategy. We support it, but I pay attention to it as a document which is a condition for us to become a beneficiary of the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." The big question to which the Strategy should subsequently answer is regarding the problem that excites everyone when we talk about higher education in the Republic of Bulgaria.... why is there a problem in the state with the state's problematic budgetary capabilities do we have other countries and another labour market? In one sentence, why our specialists who are educated in Bulgarian universities find realization in the Western labour market and at the same time we all recognize that our labour market needs specialists and, as the report pointed out, there is recognition of the problem of the discrepancy between higher education and the need for the labor market in Bulgaria. However, when we talk about this non-compliance, you will agree that we cannot look for the problem of non-compliance in just one position in this relation... only in higher education or shorter and more laconically in the quality of higher education. I'm not saying there's no problem in the quality of higher education. We all know that's true. However, this is not the only and self-sufficient, independent of all other problems. It is evident, as the objectives and measures of the strategy stress, that there is a problem in the functioning, in technology, in the procedure of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. However, there is also a problem in the nomenclature of specialties in Bulgarian universities. There is a problem from there I go further down in the curricula, in the lecture courses. Last but not least, there is a problem, and it is complex, in filling with content of the difference of educational-qualification degrees. I'm afraid, to a small extent, they are not very distinct. It's about observing the label of educational-qualification degrees. These are problems which all countries in the educational process regarding universities in Bulgaria not since yesterday recognize, but recognize in informal conversations and in the exercise of competence per piece, so to speak. The strategy defines the objectives well according to the problems in higher education, but Bulgarian governance, Bulgarian policy has no problem with defining either the objectives or the problems on the basis of which they are formulated. The problem lies in the technology, in the procedure of the state policy for overcoming problems or in favour of European directives and European strategic documents for the development of higher education in Bulgaria, respectively, as positioned with dignity in the European area of higher education and in the European research area. Therefore, the main mechanism for achieving the objectives that define the Strategy is a new Law on Higher Education, because in principle, this basic regulation is an indisputable mechanism for the implementation of policies towards achieving the objectives, as defined in the Strategy. Unfortunately, in the Strategy, however, there is only one reference to revision of the Higher Education Act, and in one, I dare say, in a less sensitive or fundamental part regarding the constitution of the Board of Governors. However, this is far from the main problem of the Law on Higher Education and far from here is buried the tool for the panacea of the problems of higher education in Bulgaria. We of the DPS pay serious attention to the adoption of the Strategy, that it must remain open precisely for this reason our main consideration. There can be no reform in higher education with a cosmetic correction in the available Law on Higher Education, because it has long been known to everyone that this Law has become obsolete. He is a child with many, many patches, which, to say, have debalanced to put it mildly, have blamed the philosophy of this fundamental legal act. This is why we propose that the strategy should remain open at all costs, for a strong will to adopt a whole new Law on Higher Education, which will ensure as technology the compliance of Bulgarian higher education with the challenges of the European Higher Education Area and European Research Area. Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. - What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Marinska from the Reformation Bloc signed up for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u131	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The attitude of the Reformation Block towards the proposed adoption Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2020 is generally positive and we will support it in principle. In its constructive part, the Strategy impartially and objectively reflects a number of weaknesses of the existing system, which are no secret either for professionals or for society. The picture of the state of our higher education is far from facial and the overall growing tide of Bulgarian young people to foreign universities is indicative of the quality of the education in Bulgaria. It's her positive and strong side. At the same time, however, the strategy lacks the answers to a number of essential issues related to the management and financing of higher schools. The answers to these questions are essential because it is precisely the specific nature of the proposed solutions that would help define this Strategy as a reformist or as one that seeks to preserve the status quo. If the Strategy has the claim to reform higher education, it should describe much more detail both the management model and the funding model that we are seeking and contain a much stronger commitment to ensuring control of the budgetary resources allocated to the activities of higher schools as a prerequisite for increasing the costs for them. The project not only does not affect specific measures to improve the management and control of the activities of higher schools in the weaknesses identified in the strategy itself, but does not mention the main components of the model of financing higher education such as training fees. It does not even offer an indicative value of the amount of expenditure for higher education at the end of the deadline for implementation of the Strategy. The questions to be answered are as follows. Is the model of shared funding of higher education intended to be maintained, and if I were to.. what will be the ratio between the fees paid by the students and the differentiated regulations for supporting the training in different professional directions? Will the so-called paid training be maintained, and if so, how long? I will just remind you that it was introduced as a form and as an anti-crisis measure, and that it was temporary. What share of the gross domestic product of higher education expenditure at the end of the period of implementation of the strategy is it seeking? With regard to funding, for example, of science, the strategy contains an indicative target of 1,5% of gross domestic product. Will there be a difference in the funding of different types of schools: multi-profile universities, specialized universities, research universities and if so how? What are the specific intentions of reforming the way management of the higher schools.. ratio and competence of the General Assembly, Rector, academic staff, Board of trustees. And how will mutual control be ensured between these authorities, as well as protection of public interest by the state in the face of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance? In what deadlines will the team of the Ministry propose the necessary legislative changes reflecting the views of the current team of the Ministry of Education with a view to answering the questions asked? All the answers to these questions will bring more clarity to the project. For this reason, we in the Reformation Block have submitted a question that has preceded the entry of the Strategy into the National Assembly's agenda. There we have raised similar questions, and to date we have no intention of withdrawing this question. We expect the Minister of Education and his team to answer the working questions in view of what proposals we could make in the future and, as Mrs. Georgieva said, in the already open strategy. In this sense, I support such a proposal. We are aware that the strategy is not a product of the current team of the Ministry of Education, but the fact that it has not been withdrawn means that the team of the Ministry is behind it. We are also aware that the answers to the questions asked will release, figuratively speaking, bees from the hive. But if we don't and we leave them there, there won't be any honey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u132	- What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Zablyanov from BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u133	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Members of the National Assembly! The strategy for higher education in Bulgaria is a necessary document and it has received the support of the Committee on Education at the Forty-third National Assembly for a reason. Of course, as any document that sets itself as a task to draw the goals, to select the funds and to point out the ways for realization of what we want at the end of that mandate, is the document perhaps with gaps in itself. Some of them were pointed out by colleagues who spoke, but first of all I would like to congratulate the Ministry's team on its operationality and willingness to move forward and propose this document with a clear awareness that it will be addressed with many recommendations. But we need him. We need not so much for external funding under the operational programmes as for the fact that the process that took place in higher education in Bulgaria over the last 15 years was largely the mark of chaoticity. The emergence of new higher schools, the opening up of new specialties, the opening up of the market for services in higher education, to a very large extent the mark of chaoticism dominated the understanding of the strategy. It is no coincidence that according to the opinion of the Union of Scientists in Bulgaria currently around 40% of students and specialties in Bulgarian universities cover specialties such as law, economics, public administration, that is, certain areas of knowledge, some areas of education that do not correspond directly to the needs of the Bulgarian economy and that is to say to the slang of the business in the labour market. We are all witnesses of the continuous "I will say that the Bulgarian higher education should be oriented pragmatically, the Bulgarian higher education should produce staff that will conform to the needs of the Bulgarian economy at the moment. At the same time, we are also witnessing the contrary opinion expressed in this opinion of the Union of Scientists in Bulgaria that if today we should guide our higher education in terms of the needs of the current market of the Bulgarian economy and the staff in the Bulgarian economy, it means a large part of the specialties and higher schools to be closed down. Publicly known fact, it is a widely known fact that for a large part of our third-graduate universities in the specialties, which require a lot of preparation and for which there is no realization of our labour market, there are no students. This is the case with Sofia University and many other universities that prepare specialized staff in narrow areas in which the Bulgarian economy, unfortunately, no longer has the resources or the production capacity to satisfy this demand. What does the strategy suggest in this direction? Unfortunately, not much. I mean, there are two parts in the strategy that differ substantially from each other. The first is the constructive part of the strategy and the analysis of the state in which Bulgarian education is currently located. She's punctual, she's very strong. Both our public and parliament are familiar with the problems of our higher education. Ninety percent of the students' funding does not comply with the quality of individual higher schools and so to speak, the money follows the student, no matter what he studies, no matter what he ends up with, what degree he gets and what is the quality of what he has graduated from. In other words, the scarce public resource that we distribute in this area is not linked in any way to quality. It's that accent, I think, that's missing in strategy. It must be developed and here it is a matter of really operational action from here on of the executive power, of the Ministry to find the appropriate mechanisms and to stimulate quality. This is the only way and chance of Bulgarian universities in the competitive market of European higher education. Our higher education will not be able to line up, our universities realistically to the universities of the countries that cook the world's specialists and specialists of Europe. It is not for other reasons, because of historical, linguistic, cultural and many other differences that cannot be deleted in strategy and in law. At least because our universities use another alphabet. My fellow Members, I think we miss this circumstance sometime. Teaching a foreign language in our universities is still an exception, and I think this will continue in the future as it is related to the preparation and quality of the teaching staff. It seems to me that the main resource, the strategic goal, what in some way should be added to the Strategy, is: what is the purpose of the Bulgarian universities in the next five or six years? The most natural, strategic goal should cover Bulgarian citizens! That's where our universities should be without competition. Right now, that's where our higher education is, our universities are losing the battle with competitive universities. Every year the number of Bulgarian high school students who go to foreign universities is growing. Every year! This is a strategic goal. It is not clearly formulated. It is not made clear that a large number of Bulgarian citizens at the age of 18 graduate from secondary schools in countries of the European Union. What are the measures aimed at these students to study in Bulgarian universities? This is, so to speak, the natural resource for our higher education. There are no estimated financial mechanisms, not even defined as an objective. I would like to propose in this direction that the Strategy should aim at our higher education, for our universities to cover to the maximum extent the Bulgarian citizens who live in the countries of the European Union and for this to have concrete measures developed. This is a market, and this is a highly competitive market. The lack of a link between the objectives being set and the spending of funds in this direction has already been noted. I'm going to quote a number. In 1990 Bulgaria separated 2.5% of gross domestic product for development and research. In 2012, 0.6% were separated. It's down four times. There is no other country in the European Union that has allowed such a decline. I would like to point out that the average for EU countries as a percentage of investments is 2,5% of gross domestic product, that is, we are four times below the EU average. Four times! The main objective of the Strategy is to make Bulgarian higher education competitive. Excuse me, between the strategic objectives, the realization of this Strategy, the change in legal documents, as colleagues from the DPS propose to make a change to the Higher Education Act, this cannot be linked to a strategic intention in terms of funding. At least set a goal for ourselves to reach the average level of the European Union. Obviously, under the EU average, this strategy will remain a good wish, like many other strategies, with the current four-fold behind. Finally, the management system of the Bulgarian universities. I do not think that it is significantly different from other higher schools in the Member States of the European Union. The university management system is surely the first global management system in the world since universities have emerged. There's nothing new to come up with, most of all, to make a mistake. The issue is state policy in this area. And that is the question of the Strategy.. what to be the state policy. It is quite clear that with this financial resource, which we are talking about, with this number of universities, with undergraduates, the opportunities for development of Bulgarian higher education are quite modest. So the choice has to be made. And because it does not appear to be a sharp increase in funds for higher education, the restructuring of higher schools in the Strategy has made the agreement that this cannot be done on an administrative basis and so on, completely normal and natural, must happen on the road to competition! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Ivan Stankov from ABB. Here you go, Professor Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! I will make a brief statement to leave time for my colleagues as well. I would like to take a position as still rector of the university and express my impressions of the proposed Strategy. I think it's what should have happened a few years ago. This strategy has been discussed over several governments. I'm a second term Rector. Seven years...... very long. The first option was hardly acceptable. It's constantly improving, it can't be said that it's absolutely perfect, this strategy has some inaccuracies, there are some incompletes, it needs a little more concrete. But I think it's an important document, it answers a lot of questions. Personally, I have received some of the most important questions. I'm just gonna stop at a few points. First of all, the interpretations that are given to the large number of higher schools. On average for Europe of over 200,000 inhabitants there is a university, with us is about 140 thousand of the university. After us there are many other countries - Poland, Latvia, Estonia and others - which have less than 100,000 at one university. I think we should look at something else, the criterion should be a little different. European universities in Germany, France, Britain, in many places in large countries the situation is as follows. There are 30,000 students at a university. They are less than the number of 200,000 inhabitants one, but 30 000 each, even more, while we have 3 000. So if we introduce another criterion, we'll see that they're not that many. However, there are universities that need to think carefully about whether they will continue to exist in this way. A good example is the Thracian University of Stara Zagora. We have made one unification of all units that are in the territory of four district cities. So it can serve as an example. The other big issue for me has not been resolved, is not clearly specified in the Strategy for financing. We get somewhere 0.68 of the gross domestic product there is 0.64, while Europe has 2.06. We're in the last place, only Romania is behind us. I think we propose our parliamentary group offers 1.1. That'll be it. And I think that we should defend this further, because this is where the quality of education comes from. We all criticize him, but how do we do that? When I get the budget, the first thing I do is: I provide a fund. There are only 20 of them left, 30% of them. How to do quality higher education? True, there are opportunities now through the projects. And we use them to the maximum extent, but funding is insufficient. I can point out some countries where they have gone to 3.5%, as are Finland, Sweden, Denmark and others. Come on, let's not reach that, but at least one! That will solve the matter to a large extent. The other thing I'm trying to say is, this is about the relationship with the business. I have to tell you, this is a two-way process. We do a lot of experiments at Thracian University. Our directions, our specialties are more applied. We want to have this relationship, but like I said, it's a two-way process. It has to be on their side, too. We have to motivate them, to ambitious them. And in the Ministry of Agriculture we made a Business Scientific Council, which also includes lecturers, including business representatives, NGOs. And there's something good going on, so we need to develop it even better and stimulate it. What else would I like to say about accreditation? With regard to accreditation, the supplier must be dismissed. And you point that out in the Strategy. The program accreditation we are constantly in accreditation. And it's a torture process. We are constantly welcoming expert groups and dealing with this, so this is the other thing we need to decide anyway. I don't want to miss this. It's insane to have over 70,000 government contracts at 50 55,000 graduates. It's insane! What competition? What kind of competition? What can we do? There we really need to reduce the reception for some directions so that we can enter the norm and still make a more quality reception. With regard to the curricula we have gaps, but I want to tell you that to the maximum extent we have complied with the European ones. To the maximum! There's hardly a university that didn't do this, but I'm telling you, it's another reason for insufficient funding. Here, a European accreditation of the veterinary speciality is currently under way for the cruel requirements for our veterinary medicine, such as they are not in Europe, but they say: You are an external border of the European Union and you must have a much higher quality. So we also have something to do, and we need to work on these issues a little more. I don't want to go any further, the problem of need and so on. I believe that the Strategy in this form, in which it is proposed, is acceptable and, further, the specifics can come with the Higher Education Act. And I think that should happen soon. Not repairs, but a new law on higher education. And I call on you all to support this Strategy, because we need it, it is necessary! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u136	Thank you, dear Professor. Stankov. Colleagues, you have the floor for lines. There are no lines. Welcome to the People's Representative Milen Mihov, Patriotic Front. You have the floor, Assoc. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u137	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I must declare that the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support this Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria. Secondly, I would express my personal very good impression of the debate that has developed here, of great professionalism and the similarity of professionally motivated opinions that have been spoken by all colleagues. I must say something that I feel as my own duty to say two good words about the Bulgarian higher education and the people who work in it. 25 years ago today's professors, docs, PhDs were assistants, they were PhD students, they were just starting their work. For 25 years they preserved and developed Bulgarian higher education. And we owe them that. My fellow Members, I would like to introduce you to a proposal to supplement the Strategy, which I expressed at the first meeting of the Education Committee on 4 December last year and which I propose to enter into the text of this Strategy. The content of this supplement is as follows: in Section VI "Activities and measures to achieve specific objectives" (point 6.1) "Improve access and increase the share of graduates to be added a new point 4 which reads: "Improvement of the legal basis and active policy for attracting students from Bulgarians living in the European Union and the Bulgarian communities in third countries." My motives for this proposal are putting the Bulgarian citizens who have completed their secondary education in countries of the European Union as well as representatives of the Bulgarian communities from third countries in a situation of discrimination when applying to the Bulgarian higher schools. The procedures for legalization of diplomas are bureaucratic difficulty, and the framework for applying to the Bulgarian higher schools allows the use of assessments from state-of-the-art exams that are missing in European diplomas. According to Eurostat for 2011 more than 500 000 Bulgarian citizens live in the European Union. The analysis of the age structure of this group shows that the average age of these citizens is 34 years. The official data of the National Statistical Institute shows that in the last five years only the persons who have declared to the administrative authorities a change of their current address from Bulgaria abroad are over 92 thousand. As an age group, citizens between 20 and 40 prevail here. Despite the partial nature of these data, it is obvious that a large group of Bulgarian citizens reside in the European Union permanently or temporarily, according to information and data in the media, this number is sometimes defined over one million, whose children receive their education in the national education systems of the Member States. I consider it appropriate to carry out the necessary legal changes that allow Bulgarian universities to attract Bulgarians who have completed their secondary education in the European Union or third countries. I allow myself to recall the need for special efforts for the development of Bulgarian higher education, which faces great trials as a result of both the severe demographic crisis and competition in the common European area. Bulgarian universities suffer from insufficient funding and have to fight in difficult competition with the far richer European and American universities, which conduct an active policy for attracting students from Bulgaria. This requires an active policy to attract our students from the European Union and third countries. This is my suggestion to point out that it is supported by the Ministry of Education and Science by a letter from Prof. Todor Tanev No 94-23-733 of 6 January 2015 In addition to the argument that I pointed out here that in the context of a demographic crisis and of competition in a really common European educational space, our actions are needed in order to take advantage of the opportunity for our children who study and work in Europe to benefit from the Bulgarian education system, I would also like to make another argument. Often we suffer from a inherited stereotype that views Europe as "Tams" and Bulgaria as "Here" here. Often we even make unwarranted mistakes, calling our fellow citizens in the European Union immigrants. This stereotype prevents us from seeing the real environment in which every major European capital is approximately two and a half hours of flight from Sofia. This prevents us from seeing that in reality the boundaries have long lost their dimensions, especially for our young generation. However, if we look at our laws and regulations, we will see the existence of some legal boundaries, which seem to divide Bulgarians from Bulgarians here and Bulgarians in Europe. We need to think about this stereotype and when we approach every legislative initiative, every legal act, to consider whether it will be only for our fellow citizens living within the Republic of Bulgaria and how it will be adopted and acting for our fellow citizens who temporarily or for longer reside in the big country Europe that has no borders! I appeal to you to support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u138	Thank you, Assoc. Mihov. - What's the line? I can't see. The next person to sign up for a speech is the People's Representative Borislav Veliev. Here you go, Assoc. Gorgeous.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you and on behalf of the habilitated persons in the Forty- Third National Assembly for respecting our scientific ranks, which we have won with hard work, with scientific publications, with working with students and so on. With regard to the Strategy, of course, we unanimously supported it in the Committee on Education and Science, to which I am a member. As said by colleague Boyka Marinska, the Reformation bloc will support her here as well. What we like and what has been said to some extent by other colleagues, but I will stress, is related to the financing of higher education, which is, for now, more like a state subsidy according to the number of students, and I think this has been pointed out somewhat by my colleague Zablyanov, but I would stress it, at least in my printout it is on page. The Commission therefore concludes that the amount of the subsidy granted under the scheme is limited to the amount of the subsidy granted under the scheme. I believe that this is a positive trend and should be supported. Depends on how this is specifically going to happen, what objective quantitative criteria there will be. As noted in the Strategy, this is, of course, to be sealed with some laws and regulations. That's what my colleague, Assoc. Mihov, I think we can support him. It's on my side. 29, Section VI, t. 6.1 supplied access. Since, unfortunately, he did not present it in writing to see it, I am under the impression that he spoke rather about expanding the access and attracting Bulgarians from other countries, outside Bulgaria. And it seems to me that we could expand it at all, since our higher schools will have such a free capacity, as one of our colleagues here said, between 70,000, for example. places for students and 50 thousand who actually graduate from secondary school, or at least would actually enter our higher schools. This capacity could be sealed with students, let them be mainly Bulgarian or Bulgarian origin, Bulgarian roots. It's a very good idea, let's support it. But why not expand this and add in its text that improving the legal base to be about attracting foreign students to study in our higher schools?! I think that my colleague Zablyanov mentioned something similar, that in the end, if there are enough lecturers who are excellent, almost as a mother, a foreign language.... in the main languages of English, French, German and Spanish, we could safely train foreign students. This is actually done in some Bulgarian universities. It is no secret that medical universities mainly have a serious contingent of foreign students who are not Bulgarians, but are studying here. They pay and pay, but in the end probably is not so bad for the budgets of the relevant higher schools. I suppose Minister Tanev would also support this. In fact, we could go even further. Such ideas I have heard from the Council of Rectors to try this capacity of our excellent lecturers in higher schools to be exported out including. With appropriate amendments to the Law to enable some institutions, say, or certain units to export this training and out. I support, with these possible supplements, Assoc. Mihov. The last point to which I would like to draw attention is t. 2.1.3. It is true that the analysis well mentions that, despite the wide network of higher schools, there are whole areas, for example, in the northwest region where there are no higher schools, and social opportunities do not allow easy access to universities in the capital and large cities. This is very strong for Northwestern Bulgaria. There, west of Vratsa, there's nothing. It is true that here is noted by the page. 33 with me, that's t. 6.5 that there will be optimization of the network of higher schools through well-considered financial mechanisms, but whether this will be taken into account here, I do not know. Probably not today, but when prof. Tanev takes attitude, could mention what will be done west of Vratsa in Bulgaria. Right, there's a t. 6.4, paragraph 2 "Instruction of the national network of regional academic centers for applied sciences', and there to look for perhaps some such optimization, perhaps, of higher education, but so far I find it difficult to imagine. To conclude, my fellow Members, this is a key area for our country.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u140	Professor Velikov, just for a moment do you wish to extend the time?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u141	Yes, I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u142	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u143	...a key sphere for our country, with no particular party color. There shouldn't be any party color here when it comes to the education of our children. The Ministry of Education and Science, the Committee on Education and Science, I think they're from the flagships of the moving reform fleet. You know that the Law on pre-school and school education is going pretty well, went through the Commission, we expect it in the Chamber at first reading. I also support what has been mentioned by my fellow Members about a new Law on Higher Education, or some changes to the one that exists on the basis of the Strategy, so without falling into any self-pity, I think that in the field of education and science we are making some small but faithful steps in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-15.u144	Thank you, dear Assoc. Gorgeous. - What's the line? I won't. I suggest that we put an end to the debate on the subject today. On the next plenary day, we will continue with them, as there are more enrolled. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms Mr. Mestan, professors Bachvarova, Lilkov and Borisov will have the opportunity to participate in the discussions at the next meeting. Message for Parliamentary Control tomorrow. I remind you that with our decision on Wednesday, the entire parliamentary day will be dedicated to parliamentary control, which will start at 9.00. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will answer a question from the MP Christian Vigenin. Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev will answer one question from the MP Miglena Alexandrova. Economy Minister Bozidar Lukarski will answer a question from the MP Christian Vigenin. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer eight questions from the MPs Vili Lilkov, Angel Naydenov, Boris Yachev, Georgi Kadiev, Kristian Vigenin, Yavor Haytov, Georgi Bojinov, and Maya Manolova and two questions from the MPs Atanas Stoyanov, and Miglena Alexandrova. Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin will answer a question from MP Maya Manolova and a question from MP Boris Yachev. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will answer seven questions from the MPs Kalina Balabanov, Petar Slavov, Nikolay Alexandrov, Philip Popov, Georgi Tarnovalyski, Jayhan Ibryamov, Velizar Enchev and one question from the National Representative Manol Genov. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer 18 questions from MPs Yavor Haytov [[two questions]] , Dzhevdet Chakarov, Vasil Antonov [[two questions]] , Christian Vigenin, Valentin Nikolov Ivanov, Dimitar Boychev and Ivan Valkov, Georgi Kovachev, Lyubomir Vladimirov, Georgi Bozhinov, Vyara Tzerovska, Vili Lilkov [[two questions]] , Jayhan Ibryamov, Yavor Haytov and Hristo Todorov, Dimitar Dubov and Manol Genov, and Kornelia Marinova, and 1 question from the MPs Dora Yankova and Manol Genov. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer four questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, Georgi Turnovaliski, Mihail Mikov and Philip Popov, and Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. The Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov will answer ten questions from the MPs Ivan Valkov, Georgi Kuchukov, Magdalena Tasheva, Cornelia Ninova, Lyubomir Vladimirov, Ilian Todorov, Atanas Atanasov, Krasimir Yankov, Petar Slavov, and Georgi Andonov and two questions from the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov and Desisslav Chukolov. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer 11 questions from the MPs Kalina Balabanov, Volen Siderov, Yavor Notev, Desisslav Chukolov, Metodi Andreev, Angel Naydenov [[three questions]] , Velizar Enchev [[two questions]] Ilian Todorov, and two questions from the MPs Metodi Andreev, and Ilian Todorov. Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov will answer five questions from the MPs Christian Vigenin [[two questions]] , Miho Mihov, Desislav Chukolov, Boris Stanimirov and a question from the MP Julian Angelov. The Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will answer 2 questions from the MPs Maya Manolova and Iskren Veselinov. The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer two questions from the MPs Antoni Trenchev, Valentin Pavlov and two questions from the MPs Georgi Kuchukov and Nastimir Ananiev. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer two questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov and Dimitar Dubov, as well as Kalina Balabanov. Culture Minister Vejdi Rashidov will answer one question from the MP Valentin Kasabov. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer two questions from the MPs Valentin Nikolov Ivanov and Boris Yachev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions from the MPs Petar Slavov and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Gorov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva to a question with a written answer from the MPs Metodi Andreev and Boris Yachev. On the basis of art. 92, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons the answer to: - five questions from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva [[two questions]] , to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov, to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov; - a question from the MP Maya Manolova to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova; - a question from the National Representative Rositsa Yanakieva to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova; - a request from the National Representative Rositsa Yanakieva to the Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov. In the absence of the country, the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to the use of leave, the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Questions 75; Questions 13; Total number of questions and questions 88. Necessary parliamentary time 14 hours and 30 minutes. Due to the planned meetings the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will answer after 11:00. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda of today's plenary session, I declare it closed. Tomorrow, 9:00 P.M. control. [[PHONE RINGING]]
