ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Let's continue with: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR PRE-SCHOOL AND SCHOOL MOVEMENT. Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs were importing on 21 January 2014, adopted at the first vote on 5 February 2015. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Let's continue with art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u2	Article 11. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u3	Statements? [[Reply on the left.]] Do you have any comments, I ask?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u4	No, they left yesterday!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u5	There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the text of the importer for art. 11, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 132 MPs: 130, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Article 11 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u6	Article 12. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u7	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the text of the importer for art. 12, supported by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. Article 12 on the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u8	Chapter 2 "Language in the system of pre-school and school education." A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u9	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Two, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 121 MPs: 119, none, abstention 2. The text of the importer for the name of Chapter 2 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u10	Article 13. Proposal by the MP Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 13 para. 5 to acquire the following version: The system of school education shall provide students belonging to minorities, together with their obligation to study and use Bulgarian language, with the compulsory study of their minority language at least 4 hours per week under the school subject, in accordance with the state educational standard developed under art. 22, para. 2, p. 4. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The proposals have been withdrawn by c. 1 and 2. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 3. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: Art. 13. (1) The official language in the system of preschool and school education is Bulgarian. (2) Preschool and school education shall be carried out in Bulgarian, except for the cases provided for in this Law. (3) In schools where an intensive foreign language is studied, classes can be studied in a foreign language in accordance with the state educational standard for the curriculum. (4) In schools that train in accordance with both the state educational standards and the requirements of another Member State, educational subjects may be studied in a foreign language, except for the subject of Bulgarian language and literature. (5) The study and use of the Bulgarian language in the system of preschool and school education is the right and obligation of every Bulgarian citizen. (6) Students for whom the Bulgarian language is not mother tongue shall also have the right to study their mother tongue under the terms and conditions of this law and under the care and control of the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u11	Statements? Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am asking you to invite Minister Tanev to the meeting today, as we are discussing a very important law, which is in his portfolio. Yesterday, although he did not comment on many important texts that we discussed, he may decide today to take this part, so please invite him to attend the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Invite the minister. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hassan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to the article under consideration. 13 of the Preschool and School Education Bill, we of the DPS believe that, as proposed, this Bill takes a step backwards in relation to the study of the mother tongue. As presented, he envisions the study of the mother tongue to take place in the so-called "expansive or additional training" without having regulatoryly guaranteed conditions for his study. We say and express our disagreement with this set-up in the Bill because, under the current legal framework, compulsory training is taught a mother tongue. The fact that in the current Bill, the Minister of Education will determine the number of hours of mother tongue study will be determined, I think it is a way back. The Bill does not provide state educational standards for learning the mother tongue. I think this is a selective attitude because there are standards for learning foreign languages, for intercultural education, but further in the Law there are no standards for learning the mother tongue and we believe that this problem continues to be neglected. There are no provided and key competences in the study of mother tongue, which further leads to no ongoing monitoring and control of the study of mother tongue. We have reports that there are almost no mother tongue experts left in the regional education inspectorates now. These are real problems that stand before the education system. They also lead to demotivation of teachers who work and teach mother tongue. The Law does not provide for and in the hands of the Minister of Education further remain except the number of hours scheduled, and also the number of students who can form a group to study mother tongue. We know that what we have proposed for compulsory mother tongue study "four hours a week, we have convinced ourselves that in the Commission, and perhaps not in the House, but there is such a problem, there are problems in the study of mother tongue and ours, and my appeal to you all is to bear in mind all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Hassan. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev. I've just been told the Minister is abroad. If you want, let's invite the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u16	Yeah, maybe. What if Mrs. Castreva isn't too busy? Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Hassan, you have quite an interesting picture of your proposal, but it has escaped me most importantly that you define students who belong to minority groups who must study mother tongue. First, I want to know in Bulgarian legal peace who determines which group is minority?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u17	Me, me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u18	You're me, but I'm asking for legal peace. Secondly, I ask who determines who joins this group? This is completely political pressure. As we have witnessed, there will be pressure in this group to bring both Roma to define themselves in this way forcefully, as well as Bulgarians Muslims. This is how we try to change their purely human and intellectual code. In Bulgaria, there are other types of minorities - there are Chinese, a lot of refugees. How will the system itself provide lecturers for all these residents in Bulgaria? However, if your proposal is not accepted, I would like to reassure you. After full autonomy, which yesterday was accepted in art. 3, this will not be a problem in certain places where there is political influence and desire to learn in such a language, as autonomy allows the school with a greater scale to self-determine its policies. Not to mention that in private schools where there is almost no state control, you will also be able to do what you want with the help of state funding, naturally. Therefore, your desire for compulsory learning of the mother tongue I think your informal coalition partners from GERB have decided it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u19	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Hassan, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mirchev, in our proposal we are talking about the study of mother tongue, which is guaranteed both under the Constitution and in the current proposed Bill and under the current legal framework. You expanded the problem and went to another sphere. As for who determines what minorities and groups are, you know that every person can define himself, even more strictly we adhere to both European norms and to the conventions that the Bulgarian state has signed, even more so you know that there is a definition of mother tongue in the Law itself. What you want to instill, I think it's far-fetched. We continue to argue that the study of mother tongue in the Bulgarian school should be legally guaranteed. I'm not gonna go into details here, but there are already a lot of teachers who are dealing with this problem. There are even conclusions that the study of the mother tongue in school instead of hindering, helps the absorption of the official Bulgarian literary language. It is better to focus on this, not to look for the problem and further conflicts on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Hassan. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Georgieva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Mirchev! And I, in favour of the position of my colleague, Buniamin Hassan, would like to say that you are replacing the categories and distorting the philosophy of our proposal in terms of learning the mother tongue. First of all, our position always refers to the study of the mother tongue. And in the Commission I have paid attention to you, the term "Malcinian language" is a choice of the importers of the Bill, but it is not a term in essence when we talk about learning languages. Each language competence, as stated in the Bill, that language learning leads to the creation of a state education standard for language competences, is made up of three No one has the right to distort one component of mother tongue. Next, you are not correct with these Bulgarian citizens whose mother tongue does not coincide with the official language, and this does not lead to European integration. To take away the right of a citizen to define himself as an identity, as an ethnic identity, where the main component is language, this is by terminology..................................... the right to identity is a human right of every citizen, including the Bulgarian citizens! The identity by definition includes the components name, language and religious affiliation and you cannot take away this basic right, which is part of the right to identity! It's an act of assimilation, implicated and hidden! It is not possible in 2015, when and in accordance with the problems of the refugee crisis, and Angela Merkel, and in the negotiations in the European Union to solve this problem, it is said that the human rights of those citizens who have fallen into disrespect for the regimes in their countries should be respected; it cannot be said in a modern bill that we do not have the right to grant the right of identity to Bulgarian citizens to study mother tongue. I repeat, it cannot be argued that this is a matter of political decision or political choice, or, as you say, political influence in the municipalities! This approach is dark-bessed!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u23	Thank you, dear Professor. Georgieva. Are there any lines? Professor Stanilov, will you have a line or a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This dispute, which we are talking about, we are having at the National Assembly, I say, concerns all Members of the National Assembly, for ten years now since I have been here and has been here before. It is either a question of this kind of question, or it is a mandatory question, or it is an optional language of the mother tongue. The DPS colleagues insist that it is mandatory, citing European rules, European conventions and so on. There are no minorities in Bulgaria. There is a diaspora. No one denies the right of the Turkish diaspora in Bulgaria to study the mother tongue and this is reflected in the Law. As for compulsoryity, practice shows that the children of the Turkish diaspora in Bulgaria are not enrolled to learn mother tongue, but are enrolled to learn English or German or French or so on. The attempt to make it mandatory is actually to force themselves to study it, it is clear as two and two four. This contradiction will exist forever and forever. The question is whether human rights are violated or not violated. We believe that they are not in breach of the law, not only are we of the "Attack," the other political parties in parliament believe, without the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Nothing's broken. Calmly under this framework, which is set, they can study mother tongue. The rest is an attempt to match the Turkish and Bulgarian language in the Bulgarian political and cultural space and to get what Mr. Yunal Lutfi................................................... the country of the Bulgarian and Turkish nation......................... That's what you used to say from that tribune. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u25	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Any other lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Honourable Professor. Georgieva, I very much respect your opinion. You obviously didn't understand me at my first line. Nobody wants to take away anyone's rights. Everyone has the right to study whatever language they want. Both in the current Law and in part of the proposals under the Law that we are discussing in this House, this is an optional subject and whoever wants can learn the relevant language, including mother tongue. Everyone has that right. I do not know if you have certain concerns, as young people in some minority groups prefer to study English, German, French, other language, not their mother's, but this is their personal choice. No one can and should not take away this personal choice. Here we are talking about that the recording... is putting within some frameworks and allowing certain political pressure in certain areas... to tell one person:. You belong to this or that minority group.................................................................................................................................................... Each person should have the right to choose, and the right to choose is through freely elective and compulsory items, not by obligation in the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Is there a third line? No. Professor Georgieva, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Honourable Professor. Stanilov, the position of the DPS regarding the study of the mother tongue is not based at all on grounds and considerations that have a claim of equality, as you stated in your reply that there is a risk of equalisation of Turkish and Bulgarian. As in the Commission, if you remember well, and here in this House for all my colleagues, I would like to say that we very correctly use the term "mother tongue." This, first of all, in general, quite self-sufficiently takes all the risks for these prejudiced concerns that are being created in society. When making a distinction, as in my speech, I said that language competence is based on three pillars of mother tongue, official language, foreign language, and that is by definition of a linguistic culture of the citizen, there is no equal to a mother and official language. We always correctly insist and use the term "mother tongue." It can never be implanted in an official language because this country has a Constitution. And in the Commission, I said that you, when you hear our position as a mother tongue, are only staring at the Turkish language, but the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is a movement that respects the human rights of all citizens regardless of their ethnicity! And when we talk about learning mother tongue, we have the same position for all languages as varieties that exist that are mother to one or another citizen. To Professor. Stanilov our position coincides with closing the circle of the government's position regarding the study of Bulgarian language by citizens in other countries. It's just an identical approach, not a double standard. As we have a policy, and it is written in the government's programme for learning Bulgarian language by Bulgarian citizens who live in other countries, so we should have a similar position when we talk about the native language of Bulgarian citizens. And now to the line of colleague Mirchev. This is not about any violent approach to the study of mother tongue. It is a question of whether the provision of the educational system should be of equal commitment to the learning of the mother tongue and whether the child whose mother tongue does not coincide with the official language will want to benefit from this educational service, of course it is his right. We're talking about equal access.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u29	Thank you, dear Professor. Georgieva. Any other speeches? National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say immediately that we will support the text of the Commission under art. 13, but since some interesting words have been used: the terms......................................... we should still make some clarity about the text they offer from the DPS. And to be clear, I will read it here from the stands: The system of school education provides students belonging to minorities, along with their obligation to study and use Bulgarian language, a compulsory study of their minority language. Dear colleagues, first of all, in this text you are introducing an element of discrimination. There is no Bulgarian school to accept children on ethnic grounds. Moreover, you know very clearly that the Convention for the Protection of the Rights of the Child does not allow such distinction between children by ethnic sign, as well as the Law of Discrimination itself. In fact, what you are proposing is that it imposes discrimination against children, and it is right for me to explain to you and to know that no one can be the bearer of children's rights. I would say that you are inserting another deliberately provocative element, and this is an element of minority language, because that is what you have written in your proposal. The Commission's version is extremely correct, just taking into account the rights, and the rights are that everyone has the right to choose what language to learn in a freely elective form. This is precisely the right to choose, not to oblige him to study Spanish, Patagonian, Turkish, Armenian and any language. I'm deliberately using a few languages so you don't accuse me of something specific and so on. I don't know why you're trying to play with this topic again, to insert elements of provocation again, and I am convinced that you know very well that in this text you have also inserted the element of discrimination, because this is the text in the first sentence. Since we must quote these European documents, we will start precisely with the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Child. And it should also go through our Law of Discrimination, which does not allow individuals to be divided by ethnicity. Is that what you want us to do to adopt a text that violates the Bulgarian Law and the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Child? I don't think it's right and we shouldn't do it. I will personally support the text of the Commission, which is extremely correct, gives every child the right in a freely elected form, naturally, it can be directed by his parent, what language to learn. To be precise, obviously the big problem is not the mother tongue, but the big problem is not knowing the Bulgarian language. That's the big problem! And among other things, learning languages that allow for development and it is clear that the vast majority of the population, for example, in the Rhodopes, well, it really wants to study Italian, to study English, which gives them the opportunity to develop in the European Union, to be able to apply the basic principles of the European Union for free movement. In order for you to move freely, you must have the opportunity to communicate freely. That's why people study these languages. That's the truth. By the way, I can give you another interesting statistic that lately very hard is being studied Chinese and Indian because there are unlimited opportunities in some very large markets. That's the truth. So don't bring in provocation. It is not right when adopting this Law to go with such provocative statements, at the very least to use terms as terms and so on in this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u31	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Mr Mestan and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 122 MPs: 17 against 81, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on the text edited by the Commission of the importer for art. 13, according to the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 115 MPs: 107 against 3, abstention 5. The proposal is accepted, with which art. 13 on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u32	Under art. 14 A proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal referred to in points 1, 2 and 3. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 4 which is reflected in its systematic place in art. Art. 16 and art. 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u33	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Unfortunately, within just two days we see a second example of misleading the MPs. Yesterday we witnessed a discussion of art. 3, Yanaki Stoilov's proposal for the single state education policy, which was generally supported by the Commission, was reduced only to access to education and the decision taken by the National Assembly was practically abolished the responsibilities of the state for a single educational policy regarding the content of the educational process. Now we have another example of this: that the importers have not reflected in the version that we are going to vote on, the proposal by Valeri Zablyanov under para. 1 stating that the state provides the conditions for learning the Bulgarian language. Once again, I stress the Commission's support. Once again we have an expression of the philosophy that the state has no commitments and responsibilities on the content of the educational process. Another example in para. 2 is not reflected what it means to master the Bulgarian language and I will read the two texts. It's different from what you wrote in para. 3: The learning of the Bulgarian literary language is associated with requirements to the oral and to the written speech..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2 in para. 2 to acquire the following content: The mastery of the Bulgarian book language is associated with requirements for the acquisition of communicative competences in oral and written communication. With what you are proposing for us to vote after the Commission has supported Valeri Zablyanov's proposal, but it is not reflected in the text, once again, unfortunately, you are giving an example of misleading what has been voted on in the Commission and another example of the state's conscious withdrawal in terms of the content of the learning process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall close the deliberations and put the text of the importer to the vote for art. 14 which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 101 MPs: 87, none, abstention 14. Article 14 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u36	Article 15 supposed by the National Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of Members of Parliament: ............................................... 3 of art. 15 is replaced by the expression......................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: Art. 15 gets the following edit: Art. 15. The study, absorption and use of the Bulgarian literary language in the system of popular education is carried out in: 1. pre-school and school training through: (a) training in the educational field and in the subject of the study "Bulgarian Language and Literature." (b) training in the other educational directions and educational subjects in which the training is carried out in Bulgarian; 2. training outside the curriculum organized for students and outside the curricula organized for children in the institutions of the system of folk education; 3. the process of communication in the institutions of the system of folk education. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u37	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This time I ask you to look at the text of Valeri Zablyanov's proposal, which will be put to the vote because it is not supported by the Commission, but it is related to the fact that teaching in Bulgarian should not only take place in the classes, but also in the extracurricular, in different club forms, also in the extracurricular centers. European and world practice has said and shown that learning one language cannot be done only in the course of school, that it can only be fully acquired if training is applied in extracurricular forms. Therefore, although Valerie Jablyanov's proposal is not supported, I appeal to you to see this text. It will be useful to be able to make the Law work and be useful for the development of Bulgarian education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 11 against 80 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 17 against 64, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 15. They voted 103 MPs: 82, against 1, abstention 20. Article 15 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u40	Before I proceed with art. 16, Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making a procedure for admission to the hall of Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Secretary General of the Ministry of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u41	Please vote on the proposal for admission to the House made by the parliamentary platform. Vote 98 MPs: 93, none, abstention 5. Please invite Mr. Valchev to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u42	Art. 16 A proposal from the National Representative Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of Members of the National The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. For children and students for whom the Bulgarian language is not mother tongue, additional conditions are created for its absorption in order to support educational integration under conditions and in order laid down in the state educational standard for the absorption of the Bulgarian book language.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u43	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 15 against 78, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the generally supported text of the importer by the Commission, edited by the same. We are voting for the editorial of art. 16 on the Commission report. Vote 101 MPs: for 85, no objection, abstention 16. Article 16 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u44	Art. 17 "A proposal from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Marinova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Borislav Veliev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: Art. 17. (1) Children and students living in the country at compulsory pre-school and school age, regardless of their nationality, shall be provided free of charge with Bulgarian language training under conditions and by order laid down in the state educational standard for the absorption of the Bulgarian literary language and the state educational standard for the financing of the institutions. (2) Students residing in the country at compulsory school age, whose parents are nationals of other Member States and are employed in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, shall also be provided with training in mother tongue and culture in cooperation with the countries of origin under conditions and by order laid down by the state educational standard for the organisation of activities in school education. (3) In kindergartens and schools where children and students are trained, seeking or receiving international protection in the country under the Law on Asylum and Refugees, additional training in Bulgarian language shall be provided, if necessary, under conditions and by order laid down in the state educational standard for the absorption of the literary Bulgarian language and in the state educational standard for the financing of the institutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u45	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 17, edited by the Commission in its report. Vote 108 MPs: 92, none, abstention 16. Article 17 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u46	Under art. 18 has a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Boyka Marinska, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18: Art. 18. The mastery of the Bulgarian literary language is expressed in: 1. mastery and application of the competences defined by the state educational standard for pre-school education in the educational direction of Bulgarian language and literature; 2. mastery and application of the competences defined by the state educational standard for general education; 3. compliance with the language norms in the classes of all classes, in the activities of the different educational directions in which the training is carried out in Bulgarian and in the activities of interests; 4. Observing the language norms in the system of preschool and school education in the communication of teachers, directors and other pedagogical specialists with children and students. Under art. 19 has a proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Borislav Velikov and the National Representative Stefani Mihailova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19: Art. 19. Teachers are obliged to teach in Bulgarian and to assist children and students in the mastery and application of his literary norms in the course of all study subjects, except for a foreign language, mother tongue and study subjects, which are studied in a foreign language. Under art. 20 has a proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: Art. 20. (1) The mastery and application of the language textbooks of the Bulgarian language by the students is subject to examination and evaluation by the teacher in the classes of the study subject Bulgarian language and literature. (2) The degree of absorption of the Bulgarian literary language by the students shall also be established through the national external assessments. (3) Compliance with the language standards in the preschool and school education system shall be assisted and controlled by teachers and other pedagogical specialists. Under art. 21 The Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u47	Statements under art. 18, 19, 20 and 21? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote on art. 18, 19, 20 and 21 which have been edited by the Commission in accordance with its report. Please vote. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. Articles 18, 19, 20 and 21 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u48	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its respective systematic place in art. Art. 156, Art. 187. "Chapter 3................................................................................................ Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u49	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Three in accordance with the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The name of Chapter 3 is adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u50	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Under art. 22 has a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by MP Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 is added a new para. 4 which reads: The State Educational Standard under para. 2, p. 3 shall be adopted by law............................................................................................................ A proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Commission shall support the proposal referred to in point (j). The Commission does not support the proposal referred to in points (a), (b) and (d) of paragraph 1 of this Article. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 22, para. The following amendments shall be made: (a) in art. 22, para. 2, p. 4 drop the expression in the general education; (b) in art. 22, para. 2, p. 5 to be dropped; (c) a new point 10 by importer shall be established: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 10. State maturity exams by study subjects or cycle of study subjects and the evaluation of their results; (d) In art. 22, para. 2, p. 17 by importer after the word "work" the point shall be replaced by a comma and the expression "s" shall be added which does not include a requirement for a minimum number of children/students in a group/parallel. (e) In art. 22, para. 2 points 6, 7, 8 and 9 shall be renumbered to 5, 6, 7 and 8, respectively, the proposed new point 10 shall be changed to 9; (f) In art. 22, a new para is being created. 4. The State Educational Standard under para. 2, p. 10 is adopted by decree of the Council of Ministers. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 1 and 2. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal referred to in points 3, 4, 5, and 6. A proposal from MP Miho Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 1, para. 3, p. 1.. 9, p. 11.14, p. 16, p. 18. 20 and under para. 5, 6 and 7. The proposal is withdrawn under para. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal under para. 3, p. 10, 15 and 17 and under para. 4. ..10. Training of children and students with special educational needs and/or chronic diseases; 15. protection of the health of children and students and their physical and social development; 17. material requirements for the detection of kindergartens and schools; The State Educational Requirements under para. 2, t, 1, 6, 12 and 17 are adopted by a decision of the National Assembly and are an integral part of this law. Proposal of the National Representative Milen Mihov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2. The Commission supports the proposal. Correction to Mr. Mestan's proposal, I have not read the unsupported point: In Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 22: Art. 22. (1) State education standards are a set of mandatory requirements for the results in the system of pre-school and school education, as well as for the conditions and processes for their achievement. (2) State educational standards in the system of pre-school and school education shall be for: 1. pre-school education; 2. the absorption of the Bulgarian literary language; 3. the study plan; 4. general education; 5. the profiled preparation; 6. the acquisition of qualification by profession; 7. inclusive education; 8. civil, health, environmental and intercultural education; 9. evaluation of the results of the students' training; 10. the information and documents; 11. institutions; 12. the physical environment and the information and library provision of kindergartens, schools and centers for support for personal development; 13. cognitive books, textbooks and teaching aids; 14. the status and professional development of teachers, directors and other pedagogical specialists; 15. quality management in institutions; 16. inspection of kindergartens and schools; 17. financing of the institutions; 18. norming and pay of labour; 19. the organization of activities in school education. (3) State educational standards under para. 2, p. 3, 4 and 13 are adopted by regulations of the Minister of Education and Science. (4) State educational standards under para. 2, p. 1, 2, 5, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15 and 16 are adopted by regulations of the Minister of Education and Science. (5) The State Educational Standard under para. 2, p. 6 is developed under the terms and conditions of the Law on Vocational Education and Training. (6) State educational standards under para. 2, p. 6 and 8 are adopted by regulations of the Minister of Education and Science in agreement with the respective ministers and heads of departments. (7) State educational standards under para. 2, p. 7 and 17 shall be adopted by regulations of the Council of Ministers. (8) The State Educational Standard under para. 2, p. 12 is adopted by a regulation of the Minister of Education and Science and of the Minister of Health in agreement with the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Youth and Sport, the Minister of Culture and the Chairman of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. (9) The State Educational Standard under para. 2, p. 18 shall be adopted by a decree of the Minister of Education and Science in agreement with the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and with the Minister of Finance. (10) State educational standard under para. 2, p. 19 shall be adopted by a decree of the Minister of Education and Science in agreement with the Minister of Youth and Sports and with the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u51	Statements? National Representative Mariana Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u52	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are discussing a text which was extremely controversial in the Commission. The large number of proposals made by the MPs from the different parliamentary groups is also significant. This is because the state educational standards govern lasting public relations. This is also the intention of the importers of the Bill, but this, in this case, on the proposal made for voting today, will happen not by the National Assembly, but by the executive power. Thus, any subsequent executive could make changes that may in a particular situation be different in the spirit of the Law. According to the aim of the importer, the entire learning process is determined by the standards... what will be taught, what distribution, what relations will be between the participants in the educational process and many other important issues that were discussed in the presentation of the text. I must say, to this day, we do not know what these standards will be. We have repeatedly asked a question to the Minister of Education and Science. He was responding to us that standards are being prepared. The last answer was that they would be ready by the beginning of summer. It's past the beginning of summer. I think the summer's over. There is still no clarity as to what has been done by state educational standards. This means that today, when the text in art. is voted on. 22 for state education standards, you honourable Members are giving up your rights as legislator. You will vote on something that we basically know only what they will be, but we do not know what the content of these standards is. The danger of voting for a blind essentially law is very great. The law can only be adopted under clear and adopted standards by the National Assembly. The standards for the absorption of the Bulgarian language, the curriculum, the financing of the institutions, the norming and the pay of the labor are extremely important. Therefore, we have proposed that these standards be adopted not by the Council of Ministers, not by the Ministry of Education and Science, namely by the National Assembly. If the National Assembly does not rule on these extremely important standards, why do three mandates deal with this Bill if it is not the will of the Members of the National Assembly?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Professor Georgieva!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u54	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our position in respect of art. 22 is related to the removal of the words. 4 to para. 2. We had a lively discussion in the Commission. I think it is useful for the plenary to address this sensitive text. This new Preschool and School Education Bill aims to improve the quality of secondary education. We share the pain that all researches, all international experts stress us very unpleasantly that Bulgarian students, the Bulgarian school lowers its positions on literacy of students, literacy in individual subjects and in common plan. All this concerns the quality of education. In the end, in the version of t. 4 of para. 2 of art. 22 The importers gave up in favor of the expertise of the Ministry of Education and Science, I am opening a clamp, which is of little importance that in view of the second reading in the plenary of this important Law, this Law, which has the status to mark reform in a key sector of the social and economic development of the state, there is no representative of the political cabinet of the Ministry of Education and Science. This is a formal moment, but it is very indicative of the considerations. The refusal of the importers in the convenience of the experts of the Ministry of Education and Science to drop the expression "Learning content" suggests that a fall in the law's claim to improve the quality of education in the Bulgarian school. Because this text unlocks the great problem and the great concern of the citizens, parents, society about the problem of textbooks and the quality of learning content that needs to find the golden section to both not weigh the students' backpacks, and not to overwhelm them with unnecessary content, with unnecessary amount of knowledge to be unable to absorb, and this knowledge, if we have to measure them, to create useful competence of the student, functional competence, and not to be self-aware of the self-esteem of one or another, for the self-esteem of one or another teacher. And here I think it is a key position in the Bill, I ask the Members of the National Assembly to rethink all the political positions of the National Assembly in the past, the debate in the public, in the media, the anxiety of parents, teachers, the quality of knowledge that the student acquires when he graduates secondary education. Well, if there's no standard for learning content, isn't this territory leaking, aren't we making the textbook business comfortable, I ask? Is it not a very elegant, disguised, helpful closing of eyes to the interests of publishers, publishers, before the business plan, and not before the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science to create a good education for their students? How come there won't be a standard for learning content? Then this debate and this supposedly worry about how many textbooks to be one or two, five or eight excuse me, but this is a pro-form debate, it's a pro-form alarm, it's just out of the best man's shame. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] When there is no educational content regulated by standard, then each author and each publisher will judge on their own, but not in the interest of the quality of the education of the Bulgarian student.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u55	Thank you, dear Professor. Georgieva. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. Before going to the vote, allow me to inform you, honourable Members, that all political leadership, as you said, Prof. Georgieva, is at a meeting of the regional inspectorates of education in connection with the beginning of the school year, outside Sofia. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the proposal from MP Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 21, against 37, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for a proposal from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of Members of the National Assembly, which is not supported by points............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They voted 99 MPs: for 8, against 54, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs in the part which is not supported by the Commission, namely by para. 3, p. 10, 15, 17, as well as para. 4. We are voting unsupported by the Commission a proposal by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov. They voted 100 MPs: 16 against 62, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text edited by the Commission of the importer for art. 22, according to the Commission report. 100 MPs voted: 78 against 15, abstentioned 7. Article 22 on the Commission report has been adopted. Go ahead, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am taking this opportunity and making a procedural proposal to end the debates under this Law. [[Heckling]] You can see that there is neither a representative of the political cabinet from the Ministry of Education and Science to protect the submitted bill. [[Loud noise and lines on the right.]] Since there is such an important meeting in connection with the start of the school year, we can end the debates, move on to the next point and when there is a possibility, even though we are a parliamentary republic and in this Chamber the executive power must be present and defend the Law tabled, then we should continue to examine the Law. Thank you. [[Loud noise and lines on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u57	You want us to vote to end this debate? [[Loud noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] There's the Secretary General in the room, but I'm still putting it to the vote... [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] Do you have a reverse opinion? People's representative Snezana Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Once again, the work of colleagues on the left side of the Chamber is extremely unsolicited. Dear colleague, the bill has been tabled by MPs, you don't even know that. In addition, there is a representative of the Ministry of Education who is not from yesterday and who is very important for the processes and problems that are being dealt with, especially for what you insist on funding. Please don't be competent. Inverse proposal not to vote. [[Loud noise and lines. Laughter. Partial applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u59	I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Krasimir Jankov to end the debates on the bill. They voted 99 MPs: 16 against 76, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u60	Under art. 23 has a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 1, 2 and 3. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 4 which is reflected in its systematic place in art. 22, para. 5. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 23: Art. 23. (1) State educational standards under art. 22, para. 2, p. 1, t. 4-6 and the National Qualification Framework are synchronized in its preschool and school education section. (2) The national qualification framework shall be developed on the basis of the European Qualification Framework, adopted by the Council of Ministers and shall contain competences as a result of level learning in accordance with the stages and degrees of education. (3) The national qualification framework shall be designed to support citizens' mobility by providing conditions for transparency of education and qualifications acquired and to facilitate recognition of the results of formal education, informal training and information learning.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u61	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer and edited by the Commission art. 23 on the Commission report. Vote art. 23 on the Commission report. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. Article 23 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u62	According to Head Fourth Institutions in the system of pre-school and school education there is a proposal from the National Representative Milen Mihov and a group. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and group. The Commission does not support the proposal: The name of Chapter 4 is amended as follows: The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u63	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 15 against 72 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Four, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 85, none, abstention 11. Chapter four will be said as the importer suggests.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u64	"Department I............................................................................................... The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u65	Statements under Section I? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Section I, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The name of Section I is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u66	Proposal from MP Milen Mihov and group. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and group. The motion has been withdrawn. Under art. 24 there is a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group which the Commission supports. Proposal from MP Milen Mihov and group. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. 1 words The system of pre-school and school education is replaced by the system of the Bulgarian education. Alinea 2 to acquire the following edit: Under the terms and conditions of this Law and at the discretion of the funding body in kindergartens, where there are no crevices revealed, can be accepted for breeding, education, socialization and training and children of two years of age. Proposal from the National Representative Irena Kotseva and group. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group which the Commission does not support: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24 the following changes are made: 1. Alinea 1 acquires the following content: The kindergarten is an institution in the system of folk education where children are raised, raised and trained from the age of three until they enter the first grade and conditions are provided for their school readiness in accordance with the state educational requirements for pre-school training. 2. A new para is being created. 2: (2) In their intended kindergartens are: 1. united children's institutions; 2. full-time kindergartens; 3. kindergartens for children with special needs; " 3. Alinei 2 and para. 3 becomes respectively. 3 and para. 4 and at the end of the provisions, the expression is added only to the settlements in which there are no individual nursery and at the discretion of the funding body. 4. Alinea 4 becomes an al. 5 with the following content: The children who entered the nursery groups in kindergartens shall be kept under conditions and in order laid down by the ordinance of art. 118, para. 4 of the Health Act. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24: Art. 24. (1) The kindergarten is an institution in the system of pre-school and school education in which children are raised, raised, socialized and trained from the age of three until they enter the first grade in accordance with the state educational standard for pre-school education. (2) Under the terms and conditions of this law in kindergarten may be accepted for cultivation, education, socialization and training and children of two years of age. (3) In the kindergarten can be revealed nursery groups for raising children from 10 months to 3 years of age. (4) Children who have entered the nursery groups in kindergartens are raised, raised, socialised and trained by standards for early childhood development, adopted by a regulation of the Minister of Health and the Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u67	Statements? I won't. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposal by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 17 against 20, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 14 against 59, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting the text to the vote in art. 24 as we are offered in the Commission's edited text on its report. Vote 92 MPs: 79, none, abstention 13. Article 24 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u68	Under art. 25 has a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group which the Commission does not support: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 para. 2 is amended as Art. 25. (2) The school may also carry out the mandatory...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u69	Alinea One first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u70	The school can also carry out compulsory pre-school training and training of children under the conditions and under the state educational requirements for pre-school preparation of state educational requirements for the physical environment of kindergartens, schools and extra-school centres. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25: Art. 25. (1) The school is an institution in the system of pre-school and school education in which students are trained, educated and socialized and provided conditions for the completion of a class and stage and/or for the acquisition of a degree of education. In the cases laid down in this law, the school also provides conditions for obtaining professional qualifications. (2) The school may also carry out compulsory pre-school education of children under the conditions and under the state educational standard for pre-school education and the state educational standard for the physical environment and information and library provision of kindergartens, schools and centers for personal development support.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u71	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 20, against 67, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer, which has been edited by the Commission for art. 25. Vote art. 25 on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 82, none, abstention 11. Article 25 on the Commission report has been adopted. It's 10:31. I declare a recess until 11:00 when we will continue with Parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u72	We are continuing with the scheduled for today: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. First, communications of new questions for the period 1 "September 3, 2015: - from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov to Bozhidar Lukarski, Minister of Economy, on a Strategy for normalization of fuel prices and their impact on the Bulgarian economy, should be answered in the plenary session on 11 September; - by MP Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov to Tomislav Donchev - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, on the policy of the Council of Ministers for liberalising the regime of activity in tax warehouses, including the conclusion of intergovernmental agreements under Directive 2008/118/EC, should be answered in plenary on 11 September 2015. Written answers: - by the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the Parliamentary Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - from the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to three questions from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to six questions by the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev to six questions by the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov; - from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Milen Mihov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Gorov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Petar Petrov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Christian Mitev; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliski; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov; by the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev. Now we can move on to parliamentary control. The first question is to Tomislav Donchev "Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy." He will answer a question from MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov about economic factors responsible for insufficient competition and remaining high fuel prices at low prices of oil barrel and weakening dollar. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! This question is somewhat a continuation of the topic that we have already had in March, we have put before you and commented on it. Unfortunately, we find that its development is not good and fuel prices continue to be high, although we have extremely low levels of oil barrel on the world markets, and a cheaper dollar. The fact that we continue to concern you, I hope that we are not upset with me, my colleague Martin Dimitrov and the Reformation Block, because our belief is that obviously on the market, and here, I think you agreed that there is a problem, and instead of looking for the problem and doing the work of institutions that obviously do not do it, we propose together to think about how to make competition work and lower prices. Because we really think this problem is being treated with more competition, and we don't think it works. Here I think you expressed a similar opinion a little earlier this week. The question itself is this: The topic of high fuel prices in Bulgaria continues to excite many people. The diesel is among the most expensive in the European Union, unlike more than 30 pennies per litre in the price before excise duty and VAT on diesel in Bulgaria and for example Austria or Belgium. Only at the beginning of the week, by the way, were we with the second most expensive diesel in the European Union at all. The expensive dollar is usually the main reason for the rise in liquid fuel prices in Bulgaria, even when oil remains stable. At the moment, however, the dollar rate is falling, crude oil barrel prices are at a few years minimum of about 40 dollars, and fuel prices on the Bulgarian gas stations remain almost unchanged around 2,3,35 BGN. for a liter of gasoline and diesel. By the way, the problem on the market is very clear here, because in a similar economic situation at the beginning of the year we had prices below BGN 2 and now it is almost identical, and prices continue to stand around BGN 2,20, which is obviously contrary to each other and is logical in a functioning market, of course. In your speech, I am referring to the answer from March, you pointed out that Lukoil, which holds around 60% of the market, which has a low technological level of equipment, carries out a large-scale reconstruction and modernisation, which is expected to take effect around May and this will have an effect on the basis of the higher efficiency and higher productivity that the refinery will achieve. But we can see that prices haven't changed either. We ask you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what are the reasons for the fuel prices in Bulgaria to remain unchanged and high, even with the dollar's lower rate and oil barrel prices, and what measures will you take to create real competition in the market to lower prices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Dimitrov and Mr. Slavov! Some of this conversation we had on Wednesday and on a large part of the questions you are asking now, I had the opportunity to provide comments and answers on Wednesday. In wishing I didn't repeat myself, I'm going to point out something. The measures and efforts of the State to ensure a functioning market for fuels and they are at a genuine market price which would mean the final market price, including the price before tax to be comparable to the other Member States, especially in a common market, so these efforts of the State should in no case be campaigning at public discontent or when one of us notices the difference that you commented on a moment ago, they must be permanent. I'm sorry to use military terminology, but the effort must be on all fronts. We have commented with you the efforts that the structures of the Ministry of Economy make to ensure the consumer that when buying fuels, they are of the quality and quantity for which he pays. There's no need to repeat that. Together with you, we have commented on everything that has been done so far, the referral to the Commission for Protection of Competition and the need, in order to have a stronger and working committee, to have the right to use tax information for the purposes of the verification. Where the verification, for example, covers a relatively small volume of companies holding a very large proportion of the market, the exact information at company level is extremely important here. In advance, I appeal for your support for amending the texts of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code in order to give such powers to the Commission for Protection of Competition. However, all other measures, including those relating to having more mechanisms not only for a functioning market but also for liberalisation of imports, because if there is any defect in the market and it would be regulated by imports, are welcome. Yes, there is a separation of authorities, but there is no ban in terms of exchanging good ideas. I would like to add a few more packages here, which are entirely within the authority of the government. It's time to think about an early disclosure system. The National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency have sufficient information, and if it is constantly and adequately analyzed, I will pay attention to only one parameter - the difference between imported and produced fuel compared to sold by clearing the time fluctuations, such analysis would tell us a lot. He would say much not only about what comes out of the pocket of the Bulgarian consumer and the companies, but also about what does not eventually come into the state budget. Let us not forget that fuels, other than the impact on what the consumer pays, have another impact on what goes into the state budget. I'll open a clamp. Bulgaria as a country in terms of pricing has decided not to burden the consumer. It has chosen a relatively low rate of excise duty and a relatively low rate of value added tax. However, this is not evident after all at the final prices of fuels. Unfortunately, you can't tell. That is why it is even more sensitive to what is entering the state budget. Another extremely important nuance: what comes out. Let us not forget that fuel costs are a significant feather in state and municipal budgets. Therefore, colleagues from the Ministry of Finance have started a very detailed analysis not only for the fuel base, which is used for heating in all types of education, public, at the expense of the state and municipal budgets, but also for the price difference. The initial analysis showed that there is a significant but difficult to explain difference, regardless of whether the fuels are delivered through the Public Procurement Act, during the Bulgarian Stock Fight, whether they are centralised or by individual procedure. These differences must be explained, but operational and legislative measures must also be implemented so as not to lead to such deviations. Believe me, there are cases where wholesale supply costs for heating the price is comparable to that of petrol stations, which is absolutely unacceptable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u76	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. I left you a little bit more to talk about, as the subject is really important. Mr. Dimitrov, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u77	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! You said that concrete ideas are needed already. I will give you a concrete, I think a very good idea: we need relief from imports and more competition. Directive 118/2008 allows intergovernmental agreements for the use of tax bases in other countries of the European Union. We urgently need such agreements between Bulgaria and Greece and Bulgaria and Romania at the beginning. This will allow tax warehouses to be used for clean storage in Romania and Greece, and notice the necessary stocks in Romania and Greece, which will immediately increase competition and imports. Mr. Donchev, for too long we have been working to see where exactly the competition in Bulgaria is distorted. Let this analysis continue, but let us create more competition and move on to the decision-making stage, and let the new KPC analyze its changes and sanction them. If two similar intergovernmental agreements are reached with Greece and Romania, it will allow more imports, more competition and prices to be reduced literally in the coming days. By the way, as far as stocks are concerned, I suspect that Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union that has not taken such measures: fuel reserves to be held in other Member States of the European Union. I suspect, Mr. Donchev, that we are the only ones who have not done this, only us, only Bulgaria! Therefore, if we start with intergovernmental agreements with Greece and Romania with regard to tax warehouses, this seems to me the most priori, and then with all the other EU member states, I think we will increase competition and this will be the basis for fuel prices in Bulgaria to fall to the average (without taxes) in the European Union, which for diesel means 22 cents down. Mr. Donchev, this will also have an important attitude towards the growth of the product in Bulgaria, which you and I have talked about many times. It is no accident that all these questions are to you, Mr. Donchev, because we believe that together we can do this work. Now I call on you to be the initiator of these intergovernmental agreements.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u78	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Donchev, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u79	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I have already expressed my support for this. I would be grateful if, except in the form of an idea, the notions and some particular text, or something a little more. After all, with the apparatus that owns the state, even if there is no specific text or idea prepared with more details, it can be done. By the way, when trying to bring order to the market, and that means a functioning market, we must not reject any idea, including exotic ones. We have done a comparative study on how the markets of all other Member States are regulated. I was curious whether a Member State had decided to introduce a particular regulatory regime and a special body in terms of fuel pricing. The truth is that there is no Member State that has allowed itself to intervene directly in pricing. All Member States what they are trying to ensure and visible from prices in most cases succeed is a functioning market. Our efforts must be in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u80	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you, Mr. Donchev, for participating in today's parliamentary control. Let's move on to the next question. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] On behalf of a parliamentary group, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll introduce DECLARATION On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In recent days, we have witnessed the development of one of the most serious tests and challenges for Bulgaria and Europe as a whole, the refugees from the Middle East and North Africa. A situation that has two sides. On the one hand, the human drama of hundreds of thousands leaving their homeland and taking the risk of moving hundreds of miles away. On the other hand, the test for European countries caused by the entry into their territory of thousands of people additionally burdening social systems and bearing all the security risks defined in the various conventions and strategies. The situation in a number of European countries is very similar to that in Bulgaria since the first half of 2013: - unpreparedness and absence of adequate response; - lack of teams for the reception and treatment of refugees; - clumsy procedures for registration and verification of documents; - lack of prepared asylum facilities; - non-coordination between the various European offices and institutions; - the absence of a single and comprehensive strategy of European countries, whether Member States or not, of the European Union. What is happening today is just a harbinger of what awaits us in the coming months and years. Let us be aware of the decisions, whatever they may be, are solutions today, but more than that, decisions for the future. Fundamental European principles, border regimes and European agreements have been put to the test, which until recently seemed unshakable. Of course, in today's problem for refugees, we need to outline the two trends that are the product of different reasons of their nature. First, economic migration and mass migration of people looking for just more chances and a better life. And second, the desperate escape of people saving their lives and seeking their own survival, driven away by the barbaric actions of fanatics and paramilitary formations. These trends, at the heart of which there are different reasons, also require different solutions. If, in one case, economic and educational programmes, investment and employment programmes may be any solution, then in the other case another radically different approach is needed to overcome the effects of the destroyed statehood. We have to admit, today Bulgaria seems much more prepared and with the capacity to cope with the challenge of the refugee influx. However, this is to a very small extent due to today's rule. I do not deny the efforts, but today the government is much more consuming results that have been laid down before than to outline a perspective and a unified approach. The government acts in a situation and does not offer systematic and position taking into account what is happening in Europe. That today we are not subject to such an influx of refugees and pressure as we observe in neighbouring countries is neither for comfort nor for an excuse. What decision will the big ones reach is extremely important, but we cannot be passive observers, we have no right. The problem is with us and we need to be part of the solution. Our borders are under pressure. There are networks and passage channels operating here, too. Hundreds of foreigners end up without documents in the center of the capital. Bulgarians find themselves involved in criminal international trafficking in human beings, while with dozens of deaths, in trafficking, causing a severe blow to our country's reputation. The return of several thousand refugees who received first registration in our country. Social systems are additionally charged. And I can imagine the reaction of the people in the settlements where the opening of new refugee accommodation centres is imminent. What are the state institutions offering us today? Nothing or nothin' if we still include routine action. The president is silent. The management of the National Assembly did not respond to BSP's proposal for an extraordinary meeting in August. The government is in over its head in pre-election events. Resort Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva pays more attention to her internal coalition relations in the Reformation Block than to her direct duties to initiate and define positions on common problems for Europe. We are very concerned about the lack of a clear and ahead of events of a government position. That is why the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria is again insisting: Firstly, the prime minister should personally take over the coordination of all issues relating to refugees internally and externally. Secondly, the government should make a clear statement on all issues.. subject to discussion at different levels and in different countries: the Dublin Agreement, the mandatory quotas, the restoration of border control, the adoption and integration of economic migrants and refugees. Thirdly, to take much more decisive measures to counter and cross illegal human trafficking across our country. And fourth, but not least, the President called the Advisory Council for National Security, including as an expression of the need for a single Bulgarian position. We are on the verge of a crisis and of historic solutions and lowering is not a position. " - Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. We are moving on to the questions to Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for the Interior. The first question is from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov about the poor material and technical provision of the employees of the Ministry of Interior in Vratsa district. Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior! In my capacity as MP from the Sixth Vrachanski Election Region, I was called for a meeting by representatives of trade unions in the sector "Secrets" from the police districts in Vratsa, Mezdra and Kozloduy. Among the issues raised by the Ministry of Interior officials were the problems with the regulatory base, pension reform, poor technical security and equipment of the regional police stations, lack of enough cars and fuel for them, insufficient funds for uniforms, shoes and means to protect patrol officers. I am not a supporter of media circulation and overexposed topics of excessive police powers, of the endless claims of the Ministry of Interior officials regarding pension reform and so on. It is obvious that this way of impact does not pay attention to the situation in which the ordinary Bulgarian police officer is present. The problems at the Ministry of Interior are undoubtedly many and are not always handled in the right way. The problems I'm talking about right now remain unsolved in recent years. Technical security is under any criticism. It is not normal for the monthly limit of fuel to cover expenditure only for a few days. This is particularly true for the district inspectors in the more remote villages who need to be in place with the people, and fuel estimates do not take into account the remoteness of the locality. In a miserable state is the state of the policeman's clothing and equipment, especially the patrollers who are on the street daily, and the need for a quality winter and summer uniform, respectively, Cubans, is obvious. Often they are forced to buy new ones themselves. Not to mention that for the entire Vratsa region, the Regional Directorate has only two bulletproof vests. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Imagine in action on a shooting signal, what kind of protection and equipment they can rely on! In a miserable state are computer systems, printers, scanners that haven't been replaced in years. A serious problem is also the reduction of operational duty, which reduces the possibility of quick and accurate targeting of teams, especially in small towns. Since the problems are indeed many, dear Mrs. Bachvarova, my question to you is: what action will the ministry entrusted to you in terms of improving the material base, technical equipment and operational readiness of the Ministry of Interior in Vratsa district? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u85	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bogdanov, I fully share your concern about the state of material technical provision in the Ministry of Interior, especially at some of the district directorates. This is my main concern and concern, but I would like to remind you, without it sounding like an excuse, that, within the framework of the 2015 budget, 14 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, based on the assessment of the needs. This is an extremely low budget that we can deal with and try to act at the moment on the logic of the most urgent needs. Unfortunately, we can't even make it there. I had the opportunity just a week ago to visit the district directorates in Vratsa, Montana and Vidin, to get acquainted with the situation, to hear from my colleagues. They share the same problems. We have them in mind and following the procedures that are recorded in the Ministry of Interior, based on the requests that are being made, we will try, I hope, with a more favourable budget for next year, to make a programme to start solving these problems. The essence and perhaps the root of a large part of them are related to the accumulation in the years of unresolved underlying issues that can ensure better resolution now in any respect, in relation to equipment, fleet, technical security. As an illustration of the fact that we are acting in one particular case and where there is a possibility, the developed project for the Kozloduy District Management is. I hope that soon the Vratsa Directorate will have the opportunity to announce the public procurement and start working on it. I will provide you with a list of equipment that was specifically provided in Vratsa in the years 2011 to see that even with a little effort, we are slightly replacing this technique. Of course, I don't have any doubts, and I wouldn't want to let you down, not a good situation. We're trying to find a new model, another model to provide this technique. This is a common concern and I hope the legislators will help in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. For a line, Mr. Bogdanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u87	Dear Minister, my question was provoked not so much by the aim of making a determination or making public what the situation is at the moment, but rather by calling you to pay attention to budgetary procedures, and such opportunities are being sought for next year. The good thing is that you visited, saw on the spot and your assessment of the state of the employees and of the regional departments of the Ministry of Interior in Vratsa District coincides with mine. We therefore expect from you really accurate and correct estimates to be submitted for the next budget for the Ministry of Interior. Of course, to rely on our support, since it is extremely urgent and it is necessary that this thing should happen, the problems accumulated in so many years, begin to really be resolved in some way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Would you like to take advantage of the right of the coat, Mrs. Bachvarova? No. The next question is from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov on the closure of the rescue activities in the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov, for the presentation of the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, as of mid-April 2015, the General Directorate of Fire Safety and Population Protection (CSD) has announced its position on the upcoming closure of the rescue activities in a number of regional departments with the establishment of eight rescue teams. The stated intentions increase the risk to employees in carrying out their duties. Specialists with long experience in disasters and accidents are directed to the non-specific activity of fire extinguishing and firefighters will be placed to act in conditions of increased danger by responding to accidents in dangerous environments without the use of specialized equipment or by being forced to use it without the necessary qualifications. A key point in this type of activity is the perfect synchronization between team members and the high expertise maintained within them, built for many years. Some of the close specializations of the members are: radiation protection, chemical and biological protection, actions in incidents with unknown substances and material, high-speed rescue in urban environment, earthquakes or terrorist acts, rescue in fast flowing waters and floods, watershed activities and many others. With the eradication of the groups, we will have the opposite effect on the ability and obligation of the state to ensure the security and protection of the population in emergency and disaster situations. In support of my words, I will also say that with the closure of the rescue activities group, the only diving team in the region is being closed. Without adequate and rapid intervention will remain some of the biggest and most dangerous dams.................................................................................................... In the light of the above, I would like to ask you the following question: is there a specific analysis of the Ministry of Home Affairs on the need to close the rescue groups at the Directorate General and what do you think the short-term and long-term effects of this act will be? I mean: optimization, ability to protect the population in emergency and distress situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u91	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Belemezov, the measure "Increasing the capacity of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Population Protection" is part of the Programme of the Government, it is recorded there and it aims to create disaster response teams based on the six planning areas. The implementation of this measure is laid down in the management plans of the Ministry of Interior, the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Population Protection. In 2015, we conducted in accordance with the state number of employees in the Ministry with the regulation in our Rules of Procedure. In this regard, the Fire Department's staff was reduced by 292 units. I would like to make it clear that the structural reform made does not mean the closure of activities or structures. This reform increases the effectiveness of response of the teams at the General Directorate of Fire Safety and with the Law on Protection of Disasters are defined territories of particular importance, such as the cities of Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, Ruse and Burgas. In these sectors are created sectors "Specialized operational activities" with a vision to implement protection of the population in emergency and distress situations through its territorial units. In addition to the listed cities, sectors were created in Veliko Tarnovo, Montana and Blagoevgrad. The restructuring retains human resources and all specialized equipment, including for initial reaction to fires and disasters in the 20 regional directorates, which do not provide for the creation of sectors For this purpose, the state is increased in the direction of fire-fighting and rescue activities to the district services in these district cities. I would like to stress that we are paying attention to increasing the initial training of employees and their qualifications. The training of the newly named employees is organized to receive complex training as firefighters and rescuers at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior on a single programme within 25 weeks. Such training has passed 495 employees, a total of 1570 directorate employees have the necessary training for both firefighters and rescuers. My personal opinion is that this is a direction in which we need to develop the skills of the overall staff in the Ministry of Interior, in the sense not just fire-fighting and rescue activities, but the acquisition of skills to perform other functions. The state of the newly established sectors provides a minimum of seven employees on duty, with six of the sectors having an additional state of four employees for diving activity. For comparison, the employees of the former groups of the rescue activities supported duty mainly with three rescuers, now there are four. The number of civil servants working shifts at the Regional Fire Department will be at least three staff members, except for fire stations. Staff members from the former "Savement activity" groups of regional departments carrying out emergency emergency recovery activities, flood protection operations, search and rescue operations, chemical, biological and radiation protection operations will continue to carry out those activities in the relevant departments. With regard to the diving activity, an additional state is provided for by four employees, team commander, diver and three rescuers. The distribution of divers is planned to be three teams in southern Bulgaria and three teams in northern Bulgaria, namely in the cities of Sofia, Plovdiv, Burgas, Montana, Veliko Tarnovo and Varna. It should be borne in mind that divers work with a team of at least three in the lightest cases. The newly created sectors are equipped with additional equipment for heavy interference, such as specialized chemical protection technique, cranes and specialized armored equipment, hydromotor pumps and flood protection equipment, as well as excavators, bulldozers and front loaders. Finally, I would like to assure you that the reform that is being made is consistent and well thought out, borrowed from European countries that have tested good practices in rescue work. We will achieve optimization in the structure of the fire department, an effective allocation of the available resource and a limitation of unnecessary costs............................................................................................. This reform will in no way lead to a reduction in population security in the event of fires, disasters and other emergency situations, nor will it lead to an increase in the risk for employees involved in this activity. Personally, as a minister, I am extremely satisfied with the organization that has been made and the model that is acting now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u92	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Belemezov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. My personal opinion and impression is in a slightly different direction. We were all discussing the various options where each of the ministries must make different optimizations, and that is with regard to the cost-benefit section, so that the funds that each ministry has been cumulative and spent on an annual basis due to the shrinking annual budgets, which has been tendential for several years now. However, at the same time, for a specific ministry, as is the Ministry of Interior, any such change must be dictated, in my opinion, by a very deep analysis which, at present, I think is not made absolutely correct. In my opinion, there are sections of a general nature and units of a specialized nature. Each change in units of specialized nature, such as the "Savement" groups, inevitably leads to many reflections on the ground and destabilization of local security, if you will, in different regions and municipalities in Bulgaria. Last but not least, here I ask again the question of the internal motivation mechanisms that exist in the Ministry of Interior. You can see for yourself that these are people who have built their expertise, routine, experience that help them in such critical situations to make unmistakable decisions and solve such problems for many years. There the Ministry of Interior has infused for years a resource for these people to be trained. Currently, these functions are being seized, reassigned to optimize to other units, and again we remain in disarray with this.. if it happens in one of these dams crisis situation, what will be the fastest plan, the fastest method, with the right people who could react? I wish success to these optimizations, and I hope that any such change that the Ministry of Interior has undertaken should be made with a very serious analysis and at any time at which some continuity must be carried out, not to leave security in timelessness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. You're giving up the backrest. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, a declaration. The word has the popular representative Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u95	Mr. Chairman, Madam Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The declaration on behalf of the Patriotic Front is dictated by the following circumstances, namely that we are worried not only that there is a huge refugee flow in Bulgaria and illegal immigrants enter Bulgaria, but that there are many doubts about people who are empathetic to various Islamic radical sects, or to the Islamic State. From this point of view, it is very important for us to separate the necessary resources from the Bulgarian institutions, especially from the Ministry of Interior, so that these people can be found and not be allowed to operate on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. But even more disturbing for us is that more information that we received just now from the MEP of VMRO Angel Dzhambazki, from people in Bulgaria from different cities who provide photos of Bulgarian citizens who already state and show their empathy to the Islamic State and to radical Islamist movements. From this point of view, we will provide information to the Ministry of Interior with the photos that have been taken. Here in Plovdiv [[shows photo]] A car that moves with the flag of the ISIS State, here we go. [[shows photo]] Imam in Ihtiman, photographed also, and a number of other data that Bulgarian citizens provide to IMRO and the MEP Angel Dzhambazki. Our request is that the Ministry of Interior be activated in this direction and that Bulgarians do not get there to inform and report who is acting as a radical Islamist or as a supporter of the Islamic State and the Ministry of Interior to solve the problem and that these people should be respected and judged even if necessary for what they are doing. In this regard, I will provide you with these photos and I hope that there will be a rapid reaction so that local Bulgarian citizens are not allowed to endanger our national security. Thank you. [[(Provides the photos of Minister Rumyana Bachvarova. (Applause from PF.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u96	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. The next question is from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov concerning the authorisation of special intelligence means. You have the floor, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, my question to you is dictated in connection with publications in the media. There is information that there has been a sharp increase in the number of refusals by which the courts reject requests for authorisation of special intelligence resources. According to data from the SRS Control Bureau, the refusals for the first six months are 267. For the same period last year they were only 84. The data shows that during the whole past year the refusals of the Sofia City Court were, for example, only 30 years, and even less. Dear Minister, what is the number of requests from the Ministry of Interior for the authorisation of special intelligence funds by the Court in the first half of the year and how many of them have been refused, compared to the same period for 2014? What are the reasons for refusals to apply special intelligence means? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u99	Dear Mr. Iankov, I will present to you the statistics we have in the Ministry of Interior, and I would like to say that we must handle the comparison very carefully against the same period last year, because then the statistics for the last period did not include the refusals that GDBOP received, which was not at the time in the structures of the Ministry of Interior. All requests for special intelligence from the Ministry of Interior structures during the first six months of 2015 are 1096; the refusals are 131. For 2014, the requests are 1265 more; and the refusals are 21, recalling the clarification that they do not include the requests and refusals made by DGBOP. Regarding the reasons for refusals, I can assure you that they are different for each particular case. The main motives presented to us are lack of sufficient evidence of a crime under art. 321 of the Criminal Code against persons for whom there is a request for the SRS; pre-trial proceedings have already been initiated, where an applicant can only be the prosecution; lack of evidence of intentional crime and insufficient arguments or incorrect discharge. The Ministry of Interior has already established Rules for the Implementation of Special Intelligence Funds by its employees. The rules are agreed with the Prosecutor's Office and the Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. I would also like to inform you of something else, and we are constantly conducting training for our employees in order to increase their competence on request and implementation of the SRS. As of 2015, the total number of civil servants having powers under art. 13, para. 1, t. 1 of the Special Intelligence Means Act amounts to 4,300 people. We planned and started a phased training of all employees within this year at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior. Complete the training of the management staff. Its control functions are of crucial importance for the lawful use of the SRS. To date, a total of 75 directors and deputy directors of the main district directorates, as well as 33 heads of the territorial directorates and separate territorial departments of the SANS, have been trained. During the training the participants are aware of the nature, purpose and reasons for adopting the new amendments to the Law on the SRS, as well as the practical changes in their implementation. Highlights in the training were the basis for the preparation and use of the SRS, the motivations of the requests for this, the destruction of the collected data and other details. For the executive staff with operational and search functions, a course shall be conducted in remote form. The remote form training started on 31 August 2015, just a few days ago. Up to now there have been trained as a whole 264 employees. According to the established timetable, they must be 4000. Finally, let me remind you that it is our duty and our job to make reasoned requests. With regard to rejections, we should address another institution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u100	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Yankov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u101	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! From the data exported, it should disturb you that more than 10% are the refusals compared to 2014, with the first six months being around 1% for 2014. The effectiveness of the work of the Ministry of Interior in an investigation is not directly linked to the number of operational and search activities implemented. That's clear to everyone. But when there is a failure to comply with the implementing regulation and special intelligence means are not resolved, the problem is the Ministry of Interior. There's no excuse for that. The topic of corruption is widely discussed, at least in these few days. There's no question that corruption is a crime. There are investigative and judicial authorities. I do not discuss your professional qualities for taking up the post of Minister of the Interior, but as a Bulgarian citizen I am sure that you do not want this most ugly phenomenon. You're now the Home Secretary. The capacity of the services and units is your direct responsibility. The detection of crimes, prevention against them will affect the security and calmness of Bulgarian citizens. If you are not doing well, we will witness how your colleague Meglena Kuneva justifies that there is no effective fight against corruption. There is no effective fight against crime. The MPs are guilty of failing to pass a law. There are laws. Apply them in good faith and do not justify yourself. The responsibility for dealing with this is in the Ministry of Interior and the services that have the capacity and powers under the Law to import quality collected evidence and the justice system to then rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Mrs. Bachvarova, you will not take advantage of your right to the back of your coat. Another question from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov on access to electronic registers and services of citizens. You have the floor, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u103	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Bachvarova! My question is about access to electronic registers and services for citizens. At present, there is no European regulation or legal requirement for ID cards to be with a chip, an electronic carrier of information. However, there are circumstances that suggest the need for ID cards to be with a chip. In April 2016, the contract providing for the issuance of personal documents was concluded. This period coincides with the launch of a large number of electronic services. At least that is the stated will of the ruling majority and the government of which you are part, which requires that within a short period of time citizens are able to have access to those services that have long been spoken about, but it is now high time to implement them. It is therefore necessary, as an option, to use a chip to record data on the electronic identifier and digital signature of citizens. On the other hand, there are arguments for two identities - electronic and physical - not to be collected on one carrier, in this case the ID card, because a breakthrough will lead to the possibility of full counterfeiting of the card. Therefore, in addition to the personal kata that is at the moment, a civil card can be introduced, which will prove the electronic identity and provide electronic signature of documents. In addition, there are different security requirements for both types of card documents. My specific question to you is: what is the government's policy so that a maximum number of citizens can get access to electronic registers and services, which would happen by inserting an electronic identification chip and digital signature? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u105	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, the government has developed and has already prepared a Draft of amendments to the Law on Electronic Identification, and the procedure for its coordination is ongoing. I expect it to be completed within ten days and the Bill to be submitted to the Council of Ministers. The changes govern the inclusion of a chip in citizens' ID cards. The issue of the new type of documents is planned to start in 2017. The chip will have several sector IDs from the civil registry for individuals, its health status, tax status information. The new type of ID will be provided for every Bulgarian citizen, but when explicitly declaring the person that he does not want a chip in his ID card, there will be none. We plan to include an electronic signature in the new identity document. However, this will be done with an explicit statement from the applicant. Any citizen wishing to be able to sign with his identity card and electronic signature documents will have the right to choose a supplier for this. Regarding the security of the new type of ID cards, I can assure you that it will be the highest. We have developed this project in view of the four security degrees by betting on the highest. We provide for all administrators to have the right to use only those data, to which level they are entitled. For example, NHIF employees or doctors will be allowed to see information about a person only about his health status, but not about others, for example whether he is a correct paying agent to the NRA. The bill provides for several possibilities for using such a chip and the use of the relevant electronic services at the same time alternative, once on the ID card, and a second time on a separate medium, on a separate card, on a third time on a bank card. There's even an electronic version that if the citizen chooses, he can use it on his cell phone. Once again, there can only be one, there can be an alternative few... one chosen, and there may be four options. While introducing these systems to encourage the use of electronic services, all existing identification systems that have a lower degree of security will be able to be used. But until we're ready with the whole range of possibilities, we'll give them a chance to enjoy them too.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Iankov, come in for a line!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u107	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Bachvarova! Good news! However, it is working in the direction of the Bulgarian citizens to be able to benefit. Once this first step is taken, the second step must also be taken to introduce the electronic signature. In other words, there are practices, including in European countries, where, at the expense of the state budget, the possibility is given on an identity card or other card carrier, the so-called, let's say, a card, an electronic signature chip. In this case, it is a leading maximum number of citizens to be able to access electronic registers and services, which would happen precisely by inserting an electronic identification chip and electronic signature in ID cards. Naturally, access to the recorded information must be extremely secure and reliable what you said. I appeal to you to cut the deadline! Once a large part of the services that citizens can benefit from are provided for for 2016, let this period not be 2017, as you said, but with the expiry of the current contract for the issue of personal documents, April 2016. To think now there is a re-execution of the budget within the next budget to provide the funds for this electronic signature and a chip from the state budget for each Bulgarian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u108	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Madam Deputy Minister, do you want the floor? No. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the questions asked to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance. The first question to be answered is the question of the National Representative Georgi Kadiev about the effectiveness of the doznitnik functions of the Customs Agency. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question is about the effectiveness of the dozno functions of the Customs Agency. On 23 July 2015, Parliament, we adopted amendments to the Customs Act, which gave the Customs Agency powers for operational and search activities on VAT fraud from imports and excise duties. In this way, we have expanded the existing dominance functions of the Agency. During the parliamentary hearing there was a thorough debate about the meaning, role, effectiveness of customs knowledge. Those of you who are interested know that there has always been a certain clash of concepts between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Interior whether authorities that are at the Ministry of Finance can carry out dominance, operational actions In this regard, and in order for both of us and citizens to be convinced that new functions of the Customs Agency make sense, I would like you to answer the following questions: What is the total number of customs dignitaries in the system of the Customs Agency? Is an update and a possible increase in their number envisaged? What is the total number of knowledge gathered for the period 2010 - 2015 by year and broken down by different texts of the Criminal Code and the PPC? What is the total number of knowledge with a final opinion on judicial proceedings for the same period, by year? What is the number of convictions resulting from knowledge of the same period of years? Finally, an assessment by the Ministry of Finance is the Ministry satisfied with the capacity and efficiency of the customs knowledge at the moment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. Minister Goranov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u111	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kadiev, the total number of investigating customs inspectors in the Customs Agency is currently 65 people. Eventually strengthening of these functions is envisaged. Each customs office shall have designated customs inspectors carrying out investigative actions on the territory of the customs concerned. The determination of their number shall comply with the requirements for ensuring an effective investigation and the temporary closure of pre-trial proceedings. Trainings and meetings with representatives of district prosecutors were held at the beginning of 2012, according to the territorial principle, with a view to clarifying the criteria of each of them in relation to the work of investigating customs inspectors. From 1 January 2012 to the end of August 2015 I will provide you with a written reference by year. I shall inform you of the following: for that period 1 February 2012. 2772 pre-trial proceedings were formed in the Customs Agency in August 31, 2015. Of these, 1759 pieces were formed for crimes under art. 234 of the Criminal Code.. holding and selling of excise goods without benderol, 943 pieces are formed for crimes under art. 242 of the Criminal Code "Smuggling goods in large and especially large proportions of precursors and drugs, and 69 of them are formed for crimes under art. 251 of the Criminal Code Euros. The pre-trial proceedings submitted to the Prosecutor's Office with the opinion of a court for the period 1 January 2012 to the present date are a total of 1915 issues, of which 1329 numbers have ended with convictions or with an agreement under the Penal Code. A very small part of them were terminated by the prosecution with an opinion on the implementation of administrative criminal responsibility. In the light of the above, approximately 70% of pre-trial proceedings initiated by an investigative customs inspector shall end with the filing of an indictment by the prosecutor or a proposal to resolve the case by agreement. The conclusion that can be made is that this instrument is effective and helps the Customs Agency to improve the collection of the state claims entrusted to it by law. I repeat, I have written information within me, which is much more detailed, which I will provide to you as an addition to this reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u112	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a line? Yes, you do. National Representative Georgi Kadiev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, in my person, do not remain unclear, you have an absolute supporter of the elevated associate powers of the Customs Agency. I have always fought for this because they really have an effect on the higher revenue collection for the state. What embarrassed me to a certain extent in your figures was that from 2772 pre-trial proceedings eventually came to sentences in 1329 somewhere around 50%. Another 20% was handed over to court, but it didn't come to a verdict, and 30% basically ended up in nothing. This, as an efficiency of knowledge, is not particularly high. I would like, in all likelihood, with all the training you are doing, I hope that you will increase the number of connoisseurs - 65 is not small, I think. When I was in the Ministry of Finance 2006, there were only 17. From 17 to 65, the increase is sensitive, but I would like you to put in all the efforts you can, the financial resources that the Treasury can afford, because this is something that really has a return. This increase in excise duties, which is being observed at the moment, is largely due to the actions of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u114	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u115	I use the possibility of a duplicate to provide if you want the additional information that details the oral response on the one hand. On the other hand, to allow myself, however, to express confidence that the duties of the Customs Agency are quite effective if they are compared with other authorities that have such connoisseur functions. Once again, I note that from 2772 the number of pre-trial proceedings around 1329 have ended with a conviction which, although it appears to be a relatively low percentage, comparable to the work of other authorities having connoisseur functions, is quite satisfactory. Naturally, efforts in this direction must not stop for a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u116	Thank you. The next issue to the Minister of Finance is from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov on covering the transport costs of natural and legal persons for direct deliveries of bread, bakery products and basic food products in mountain and small settlements with population up to 500 inhabitants. Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, at the end of last year the National Assembly adopted the Annual Budget for the current year 2015. Its expenditure included significant funds for social activities and services by the state as part of these social costs of 3 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. they are specifically intended to cover the transport costs of natural and legal persons for direct deliveries of bread, bakery products and basic food products in mountain and small settlements with population up to 500 inhabitants. The social nature of this activity is extremely important. It covers the subsidization of the supply of bread and essential goods in over 1600 small settlements, which, unfortunately, already have subsiding functions. Mostly an adult population lives in them and is located in mountain and semi-mountain regions. Taking into account the important social nature of this activity, the state has, over the past 20 years, provided annually, those funds covering much of the transport costs for the supply of these essential goods to the population living in these settlements. A natural partner in this social commitment of the State has so far been the Central Cooperative Union which, through its regional cooperative units across the country, on the one hand, administers these funds and, on the other hand, actually realises this supply of the most necessary goods to the most vulnerable groups in society, namely the elderly in these remote small settlements, where there is really no opportunity for their delivery by commercial entities. In this regard, my question, my dear Minister, is: what are the reasons for not yet having a regulation on the use of these funds, with a view to the year-round supply of essential goods? What action will you take in order to resolve this issue in the shortest possible time and to really make sure that this social function in the supply of these so-called goods for so many people is a fact? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u118	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Mr. Goranov, you have the opportunity to respond to three minutes is the time determined for this procedure, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Stoyanov, until the end of 2014, the provision of budget funds to cover the transport costs of natural and legal persons for direct deliveries of bread, bread products and basic food products in mountain and small settlements with population up to 500 inhabitants was carried out on the basis of a decree of the Council of Ministers for the implementation of the state budget for the relevant year in the form of a minimum aid scheme, the administrator being determined without applying the requirements of the Public Procurement Act. I believe that this practice cannot continue, as these supplies continue to be made if necessary by competition and subject to national public procurement legislation. I would like to inform you that the administrator in force by the end of last year is a legal person with cooperative status that can carry out a commercial activity, that is, he is a trader who is not directly selective for the provision of supplies and services with a source of funding for budget funds. In this sense, I would accept your question: what mechanism we will apply to organise the supply, and not to comment directly on the Central Cooperative Union, which is a very serious and traditional organization, but in this case it cannot be directly elected for this activity. Until now, in the Ministry of Finance, in addition to the questions received by MPs, there is no indication from a state body of central or local government that there is a problem with the delivery of bread and bakery products and essential food products in mountain and small settlements with population of up to 500 people. I note that, when preparing the draft budget for 2010, we requested a written opinion from the National Association of Municipalities, where I believe that the issue of providing funds should be resolved, of course, from the budget. We have received a negative opinion from them on commitment in this regard. What could I possibly suggest for such an organization if the problem really is with this sharpness with which it is put? In preparing the Law on the State Budget for 2016, we can include in the budgetary relations between the central budget and the budget of municipalities funds to be used to organise this activity or, if the Minister of Labour and Social Policy considers that this is an activity to be provided under social protection, such funds to be included in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. In the repeated debates I have had with the National Association of Municipalities and with individual fellow ministers, no credible mechanism has been proposed to resolve the problem, but without the conduct of a public procurement and the regulation of the way in which these funds are used in accordance with the Law, there is no direct way to be provided to the Central Cooperative Union quoted by you. Why and how this has been done in the past without holding a public contract is a topic that should also be discussed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u120	Thank you, Mr. Goranov. For your reply, Mr. Stoyanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I understand your opinion on the serious case, procedural and technical difficulties regarding the administration of these funds. Yes, you are right, the laws must be respected, in particular the Public Procurement Act, but in the end these funds are proposed by you in the draft budget and approved by the National Assembly. I think that everything is in good faith, of course, not just in good faith, but it is a matter of good administrative capacity, on the one hand, of your office, but, on the other hand, of the organisation concerned, which will administer and actually deliver these goods as necessary. So far, the Central Cooperative Union has been the country's natural partner in this regard, but no one is saying that the Central Cooperative Union should once again be this partner, possibly through the National Association of Municipalities in the respective municipalities. After all, there must be an organisation that actually delivers these necessary goods to hundreds of settlements throughout the country. The problem is extremely serious. You say that this issue will largely be cleared in the 2016 budget project. And until then? It has already been 9 months since this year and people who need these goods of extreme necessity are not obliged to know the Public Procurement Act. If so far these goods are delivered to these small remote settlements, it is probably not thanks to the state, but rather despite its inactivity. I appeal to you. I understand your empathy for the problem, but let us, with greater commitment and persistence, find the optimal option, the optimal algorithm and formula that will lead to a very good option and the state through the Ministry of Finance to find the right way to solve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u122	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u123	The state through the Ministry of Finance has provided the resource, which you correctly find reading the Annual Law on the State Budget. However, the Minister of Finance certainly does not include the provision and supply of goods to weakly populated areas. I have had multiple debates with state authorities that could rather recognise this function. The strangest thing was that the National Association of Municipalities didn't recognize her. I hope from the last debate I've had with them, they recognize this function. The resources will be provided again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u124	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov regarding administrative obstacles that the tax warehouse regime puts before competition on the market of fuels and competitive supplies from the European Union. Mr. Slavov, are you going to ask the question? Yeah. You have up to two minutes to formulate it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister Goranov, the issue, as has become clear, concerns the extremely current and painful topic in society for high fuel prices. The latest development on the topic, which has been received since the last days, and I suppose you have seen this information, which the media have spread, showed also reports, how no longer only Bulgarian citizens from the border regions, but also entire companies from the transport sectors, from logistics, reoriented fuel loading in neighbouring countries of the European Union. In practice, this, I suppose, excites you because it directly concerns a fissure, because the VAT and excise revenues for the Bulgarian state are lost, given that these companies prefer to fill with fuel in neighbouring countries and pay them there and not in Bulgaria. Obviously, something must really change in the market of fuels and prices to be competitive and comparable in Bulgaria with neighbouring countries in order not to lose these revenues. But specifically on the issue: the expensive dollar was usually the main reason for the spikes in liquid fuel prices in Bulgaria when a barrel of oil remained unchanged or decreased by a little. At the moment, however, the interesting thing is that we have several year minimums and the price of a barrel of oil and a cheaper dollar in practice, I would even say there is a comparable situation with the beginning of the year, if you remember, as parameters at the price of a barrel of oil and the rate of the dollar, then the prices were below two levs, while currently above 2.20, going to 2.30 even a week ago were only over 2.30. So the problem that we see here is that the lack of real competition is rooted in the regime which the Law on excises and tax warehouses introduces and does not, in fact, provide for a differentiated regime between imports from third countries and between supplies from the countries of the European Union and the system of fuel supplies from such countries. That is why we are asking you: Minister, do you agree that the lack of such differentiation in the regulation of the tax warehouse regime creates administrative obstacles to competition in the fuel market, which leads to high prices and low value of a barrel of crude oil and a cheaper dollar? And if you accept this thesis, do you think that anything can be done about this and at all about reducing fuel prices?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u126	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Slavov, Mr. Dimitrov! I cannot fully share what you comment on with regard to the excise and tax warehouse regime, particularly with regard to the tax warehouse regime, as the provisions of Council Directive 2003/96/EC of 2007 and Council Directive 2008/118/EC of 16 December 2008 on the general arrangements for excise duty regulate very clearly and without the possibility of interpretation in national law the organisation of excise goods and their movement within the Community. The goods may be moved under a deferred payment procedure in the territory of the Community, including when passing through a third country or a third territory from a tax warehouse to another tax warehouse, to a registered consignee or to a place where the excise goods leave the territory of the Community or where the goods are sent from another Member State. In the case of importation into the territory of the country, excise goods shall be subject to customs formalities under the procedure of customs legislation. It should be noted that in the event of import into the territory of the country, excise goods may be released for consumption with the payment of the excise duty due or admitted for free circulation, while at the same time placing under the duty suspension procedure they must enter into a tax warehouse. The Law on excise duties and tax warehouses regulates excise duties and controls the production, use, storage, movement and supply of goods subject to excise duty. Where excise goods have not been paid excise duty due to their being put under suspension for excise duty, the controls, as we know, shall be carried out by the customs authorities. The introduction of different regulations regarding excise goods, depending on whether they are produced in the territory of the country, in the territory of another Member State or in the territory of a third country, is not in accordance with European Union law. Outside of this formal answer, I could comment on the following. I have also heard from representatives of the Commission for Protection of Competition the incorrect claim that, you see, the tax warehouse regime is distorting the possibility of competition. If there is any doubt that access to the tax warehouse is, in one way or another, carteld, it is the same Commission that must endeavour to regulate the market for the use of such rental areas in tax warehouses in order to ensure that there is no doubt that there is a difficulty in imports. I would also like to express confidence that, in my view, the problem of the current too high allowances, which are obtained as a difference between a producer's price and a final price for the purchase of fuels, is mainly due to the distortion in the market, which we have been seeing for many years back in time. The answer to your question is: the problem is in the lack of competition and in the need to protect it by the measures that the state authorities can implement s are largely outside the executive power. On the other hand, to express confidence that the regime of tax warehouses should rather facilitate competition, insofar as it allows the introduction of fuels under duty suspension rather than hindering it. But if you have any concrete examples of bad practices in using tax warehouses, we are prepared to take specific operational checks and actions to eliminate these deficiencies of the system.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u128	Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. For the line, Mr. Dimitrov. You'll have a chance...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! You know how much criticism I personally have had towards the KPC, but still their 2011 report says, Mr. Minister, that 80% of the tax warehouses are owned by the same company. We do not know what the situation is now, but we have another question for you on this occasion and a check by the Ministry of Finance must be made................................ is owned by the same company............................ is owned by the same company.......................................................................................................................................................... But what have many countries in the European Union done? This recommendation was also written by the KPC, we found after a long reading, so that when they were asked the question directly, they could say: "We have actually made a recommendation which the executive authority has not fulfilled. This recommendation I now specify as follows: Bulgaria can conclude intergovernmental agreements. My recommendation is that they should first be with Romania and Greece, for mutual use of tax warehouses. Directive 118/2008 also allows it by the European Union. Mutual use in both storage and stocks can be held in this way... By the way, Minister, I would not be surprised if Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union that has not allowed stocks to be stored elsewhere in the territory of the European Union. I think we're the only country. It is good to check it and to disprove me, to prove that there are two countries in the European Union and not only Bulgaria the one that does not allow it. These are administrative restrictions on competition. That is, you say: the powers of the KPC clearly. But what the government can do for more competition and price cuts in the coming months are these intergovernmental agreements with the entire European Union on mutual use of tax warehouses. The KPC claims that there is such a practice, I do not believe they are wrong, and you must also take specific measures and we will support you. Imagine from Romanian tax warehouses without problems to import oil and fuel into Bulgaria. This will lead to a reduction in...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u130	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Minister of Finance, you have the opportunity to make a duplicate of the proposals in the form of a replica.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u131	Mr. Dimitrov, Mr. Slavov! I do not see now any obstacle for fuels under the duty suspension regime to be stored in foreign tax warehouses. By the way, it's mass practice now. Of course, we will examine very carefully what the KPC says about agreements. I don't think he needs any, though. Because when it is regulated in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria fuel with the mode of deferred payment of excise duty, it, arriving in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, must either be released for final consumption, the excise duty and the value tax must be paid or must continue to be stored in a tax warehouse in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. There is no way for the fuel to start with the duty suspension regime from a Romanian tax warehouse and to arrive at us with the duty suspension regime at the gas stations. It arrives with the mode of end-use. I mean, I still don't understand, and I'm going to get to know carefully the findings of the KPC, which Mr. Gavrilov, the spokesperson of the KPC, skillfully articulates the last days, but if there are any concerns about competition with fuels, they are the ones who have to give the answers and I do not believe to be rooted in it. I ask you: since oil is imported from Serbia from the refineries of one of the world's largest producers, since they are imported at a very low value, why do they continue to sell at a very high final price? The answer is not because there are no tax warehouses on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, but simply because the market has not worked and I think that this is where the efforts, perhaps the new composition of the Commission, should be made much clearer. If there is such a practice for such agreements, although this is a private turnover, I am ready to propose the conclusion with each neighbouring country, but I cannot identify the problem in the way you put it. I certainly share your concerns about distorting competition in fuel trade specifically.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u132	Thank you, Minister Goranov. We are moving to the last question to you from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski on the implementation of the revenue side of the state budget. Mr. Turnovallisky, please come to the stand and state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ministers gentlemen, colleagues! Dear Mr. Goranov, my question to you is about the implementation of the revenue side of the state budget. In the public domain, information on a significant excess of indirect tax revenue at the end of August 2015 compared to the same period of 2014 in the amount of more than 2 billion is being exported. lv. as a result of the fight against smuggling. Claims in this direction were also made by members of the Council of Ministers. Dear Minister, the news of more revenue in the state budget is great, but only when this revenue is the result of measures taken and a real fight against VAT smuggling and fraud, when these actions are on the basis of commitments made. However, if these results are based on unrealistic planning or profit accounting tricks at the end of the year, this is not just bad news, but an illusion with the figures. In this regard, Mr. Minister, my question to you is: what are the specific measures you have taken and what is the contribution of each of these measures to these results that account for an excess of revenue by 8 months of 2015 compared to the same period of 2014? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u134	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Mr. Goranov, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u135	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Tarnovalyski, I'm going to go into this answer like this because I was provoked by your announcement of speculation with numbers and some other type of techniques that would distort revenue reporting to such an extent that they would exceed nominally for the same period last year by hundreds of millions and billions of levs. This is due to all the measures we are taking and which you, as Deputy Minister of Finance, have not taken. In particular, I can quote. At the end of 2014 a Decision of the Council of Ministers No 788 was adopted on the payments of the authorising officers under contracts under which the recipients of the payments had no public obligations. In 2015, a constant monitoring by the National Revenue Agency was carried out with regard to debtors with overdue liabilities of over 100 thousand. lv. for taxes and compulsory social security contributions. We have strengthened the administrative agency and extended its powers to something that you are certainly welcoming. We have continued the practice introduced by you and have imposed additional measures in relation to the mechanisms for reimbursing value added tax in respect of the supply of cereals and technical crops. Perhaps in the course of the debate on the state budget for 2016, we can conduct a very serious analysis of why quite a large part of the revenues that are coming in now have not taken place in transitional years, but I will only allow a few more specific quotes. You know that every week we have very serious coordination meetings between all authorities that are relevant to economic crimes, which most often relate to the avoidance of tax and excise payments. This, believe me, is a good practice and if you are ever again in the executive power, you should continue to apply it, as it actually gives good results and shows that the state has the capacity to collect revenue. We strengthened the efficiency of fiscal control through additional open fiscal posts in Burgas and Varna ports and near the border crossings with Serbia and Turkey. We have expanded significantly the scope of goods subject to fiscal control. Based on preliminary data, not only as statistical information and real revenue, we can quote that by the end of August, we received 21.5 billion of the annual estimate 70.9% of the annual estimate, and compared to the same period last year we have 12% nominal growth. If you think you can achieve 12% nominal growth with the techniques you doubt, I am ready to invite you to the Ministry of Finance and give you specific feather information. I am sure that you would support additional measures which, in a short period of time, we will propose to strengthen the role of the state in increasing the collection rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u136	Thank you, Minister Goranov. A line, dear Mr. Turnovallisky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u137	Dear Minister, you have not answered the question asked. I asked about the concrete measures with the specific dimension, as we are talking about 2 billion of smuggling, and, firstly, there are no 2 billion more revenues compared to the previous period of indirect taxes. The techniques I told you about, for calculating the numbers, I am now going to tell you that in January you have revenue from VAT 970 million, since in the previous years these receipts are not more than 600 million or slightly more than the previous year. There is a retention of value added tax, including an enhanced refund. These are the techniques in which you increase revenue by 300 million in 2015. This is recorded in your newsletter. [[Shows it.]] This is written specifically and clearly. We also need to take into account other indicators that affect the revenues of better internal demand. You know very well how it affects you. If you don't know, let me tell you. For the 6-month period we have an additional 200 million from the sector "Telecommunications" "27.5" by the mining industry "Electrosales" "27 million levs," from the retail chains "25.4 million levs," from the mining industry "26 million levs." Here, that's five hundred million more revenue than VAT. Where's the proceeds from the stopped smuggling? I don't see them, much less by no means are in those sizes in which they are exported to the public. One part of the measures that you have listed are legislative and operational measures from the previous year, so thank you for the applause you gave me. I don't have to come to the Ministry. I'd love to come, but I asked a specific question and you have to answer me feather by feather where this revenue came from and if it's from smuggling, tell me which measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u138	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u139	By the end of August, only from excise revenue there were more than 320 million. lv. Only from excise duty! [[Replys from National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski.]] Yes, by the end of August, the nominal income from excise duty alone is 320 million. lv. more than the same period last year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u140	It's two hundred and thirty, but whatever.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u141	If you compare here, I try not to simplify the debate, the changes in aggregate macroeconomic indicators and impose them with the nominal amount of revenue, you will find that 70% of the revenue growth does not correspond to the changes in macroeconomic indicators, that is, it comes along the collection line. It is also possible to make positive news negative political propaganda, but this further motivates us in one direction only to continue to do our jobs as we have done so far, and you to invent all sorts of speculative theories.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u142	And you're saying this is from the smuggling?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u143	Of course you're uncomfortable with our success. It's normal, it's normal to be uncomfortable that we're successful. Unfortunately, however, your brief experience as Deputy Minister of Finance has not given you the opportunity to expand to show your options.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u144	I'm unfolding where it's more important.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u145	This year's budget was submitted under the conditions of excessive deficit and criminal procedure against Bulgaria. Believe me, it wasn't easy going through the legacy you left us at the Treasury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u146	You're not comfortable, but these are the facts, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u147	Thank you, dear Minister. With this, the questions to you today are exhausted. Thank you and wish you a good day on! We continue with the next series of questions that are addressed to the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev. First a question will be asked by the National Representative Ivan Valkov concerning properties with the status of private and public government property located in Burgas region, with a lack of necessity for the Ministry of Defence, provided for the carrying out of instrumental actions. Mr. Valkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! Mr. Nenchev, during the period 2012 - 2013 on the basis of letters from municipalities in Burgas region and the district governor of Burgas region, requesting the transfer of properties from the Ministry of Defence and following talks on the site of the Ministry of Defence, a timetable was placed for the transfer of these properties to the respective municipalities. These schedules include properties with location in the district of Burgas, Tsarevo, Aitos, Sredets and Pomorie. This year, however, other properties were uploaded to the Ministry's website, as well as the status regarding the intended instrumental actions with these properties was changed. All properties were uploaded for sale for 2015. My question to you is: what did the Ministry of Defence change this decision? What are the reasons?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u149	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Mr. Minister Nenchev, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Valkov! I have had the opportunity to answer such questions many times already, but let me inform you that it concerns private and public property located in the municipalities of Burgas, Tsarevo, Aytos and Sredets, which were included in a timetable for providing property to municipalities, district managers, offices in 2013 and 2014. Some of them are included in the established schedule of properties with private and public property status with a reduced need. They are intended to carry out instrumental actions sales in 2015. The grant of property is linked to the management program of the executive power. This measure is, above all, a management decision, where appropriate: in case of proven public needs and public interest, the realization of municipal infrastructure, projects of regional importance, implementation of municipal projects or those with European funding. Every year, the Ministry of Defence prepares a schedule of properties planned for an instrumental sale by auction. The property arrangement in the management of the Ministry of Defence is carried out under the State Property Act and its Implementation Rules. The schedule for the free provision of properties with a reduced need does not have a mandatory nature. Each request shall be reported to the Minister and after his positive sanction a procedure shall be initiated, which shall be agreed with all ministries and shall finally be finalised with a decision of the Council of Ministers. The management of the Ministry of Defence in parallel with two others made a sale and provision, which is ultimately provided on the basis of a policy for exemption from unnecessary infrastructure. What do I mean? Dear Mr. Valkov, the properties in the Ministry of Defense with a lack of necessity are a particular burden for the Ministry. You know well that the Ministry must pay taxes, fees, maintain the buildings, including guarding them. Our policy is related to this: where possible and necessary, or to provide these buildings to the municipality concerned after a decision of the municipal council and, where appropriate, to be declared for sale. Let me make it clear that the funds we receive from the sale of these properties do not belong to the Ministry of Defense, but to the central budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u151	Thank you, Minister Nenchev. Mr. Valkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nenchev, I fully agree with you that the properties with a declining need are really a burden of the Ministry and it must find the best possible way in which the properties are either committed to municipalities or to be declared for sale as is done in the present case. However, there are cases where a procedure has been initiated and, in my opinion, for each individual property, the procedure must be coordinated separately. In Aitos, for example, there is a need for civil protection garages, for the Fire Department, which are currently empty in the military unit. At the same time, the Bulgarian Orthodox Church there donated a property to the state in the face of the Ministry of Agriculture in 1905. Since the conditions for the donation were not met, they want to acquire this property, for which talks were also held. The same exists in the area of Pomorie, where according to the General Planning Plan of the city and the municipality one of the terrains is intended for urban park and public activities. In my opinion, on a case-by-case basis, public interest should be taken into account separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u153	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u154	Dear Mr. Valkov, of course this is the case to each particular property should be approached specifically. I understand your concern. Your behavior is correct, you are concerned about the public interest. I want to assure you that I have the will to respond positively. Please, present to me all the properties that you believe would be of use to the respective community and to the people, and I will do my best to get them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u155	Thank you, Minister Nenchev. We move on to the next question to you, which is from the MPs Dora Yankova and Stoyan Mirchev regarding low-flying military planes along the rivers Malka Arda and Davidkovska, Banite municipality. Mr. Mirchev, please state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Mr. Nenchev, in July we were approached by quite worried citizens from the river of Malka Arda and the river Davidkovska from the municipality of Banite regarding low-flying planes. After talks with the residents, they expressed concern that from three to five times a day there was a low-level flight of military planes at a height of less than 100 metres. Our question to you is: can you inform us what the purpose of these low-flying and disturbing population flights is? What is the role of your ministry in coordinating these maneuvers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u157	Mr. Mirchev, thank you for the question. Dear Minister Nenchev, you have the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u158	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mirchev, Mrs. Yankova! I had the opportunity to answer that question a while ago. Let me also inform you that this is about joint preparation, which took place within 15 days in July. This exercise includes flights at low altitude and flights in a mountain where different operations are processed. Such joint preparations have been carried out once or twice a year since 2008. In the case of these flights, the rivers of Malka Arda and Davidkovska were selected. In determining the area of flight, the requirements for the relief for carrying out the preparation as well as the search for weakly populated areas are taken into account, as in addition to settlements, it is necessary to avoid routes of international aviation when planning the routes. Sometimes it is necessary to allow closer passage to cities and villages, for which I personally had the opportunity to offer an apology. I also apologize to the people of the respective villages who have addressed you. But there is no reason for people to worry, because these are primarily routine tasks and are carried out within short periods of time. Information shall be published on the Ministry's website in a timely manner for all exercises and notified to the relevant institutions. The Thracian Summer is called the exercise and it is essential for the preparation of the crews of our military transport aviation and the formations of our special operations forces. In connection with the temporary financial crisis, we are very keen on these joint trainings because they save on everything else and resources that are extremely necessary for the Ministry of Defence. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u159	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Mirchev, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u160	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Nenchev, you have indeed answered such a question, but we are already seeing a systemic problem here. Clearly, the problem is repeated not once, but twice, to hope that there will not be one in the future. One of your responsibilities is national security, i.e. the citizens of Bulgaria to feel calm and protected, especially given the tense international environment around Bulgaria there are several outbreaks. Obviously, the way you warn people about these teachings is not enough. I was personally on the Rozhen Plains when those planes flew by. I want to tell you that at the moment when a large part of the Bulgarian population was in these meadows to test its national pride, many people around me, including I felt bad, began to criticize that the state had not warned them in any way or found no way to slow down or bypass, but not to stress them. We see that the problem has been repeated in Banite municipality as well. I very much hope that you will take concrete measures from now on to warn the population so that it does not come to such moments. Otherwise, it seems that we are somehow an addition to foreign geopolitical interests and we do not care at all about the Bulgarians who live in our territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u161	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u162	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. We just care about Bulgarian citizens! That is why we are doing all these trainings to be prepared; to carry out these operations that we performed, if you remember, at the beginning of this year, when there was heavy snowfall when we saved human lives! Then, when we had to use our Mi-17 helicopters to put out the fire in Rila! Then, when it was necessary to throw away all the resources we have to help the state and the relevant organizations! So these workouts are extremely important to us. Crews must be prepared so that they can respond in any particular case, where necessary, to protect national security and national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u163	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to you is from the MP Petar Hristov Petrov concerning a request for compensation from the citizens of the village of Mokren, village of Padarevo and village of G. Alexandrovo because of the issuance of harmful gases and noise from the military range Novo selo. Dear Mr. Petrov, you have the floor to formulate your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The question I am asking is actually a question of 283 citizens of the mentioned villages. Knowing about this signature, she was joined by more lists that I can provide on request, but I don't think that's necessary. That's about 30 or 40 percent of those living there who ask a question to the Ministry. Furthermore, I would like to express my personal opinion that, as a Member of the National Assembly, I will do my best, and I suppose that is what the MPs from the Group of the Patriotic Front will do to support the Minister of Defence, the Ministry of Defence in the formation of the new budget, because we all see the enormous emptiness in our national defence, which stands out for years neglected. All of this we would do because, in my personal conviction, our Euro-Atlantic orientation has no alternative. After this introduction, I would like to raise the question that, in implementation of an intergovernmental agreement between Bulgaria and the United States, an Agreement on Defence Cooperation was signed, which was ratified by a law by the National Assembly in 2006. In implementation of this Agreement, the Ministry of Defence, as an executive agent, supported the American side to build a joint Bulgarian-American study base. On the basis of PDP Novo village, I would like to draw attention to this, in the long term the facility is a Bulgarian-American learning base for conducting joint military exercises of the armies of the two countries. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In Zone 1, a front operating base forms part of the territory of Novo Selo and under the Agreement is used as a permanent base by the US country.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u165	Please formulate the question in the line may...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u166	I think, Mr. Chairman, that I am currently using the two minutes rationally for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u167	It's two minutes and 43 seconds now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u168	Is it over yet?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u169	Of course, that's why I warned you with the signal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u170	Very quickly, thank you very much. My question to the Minister of Defence is quite simple: will the Ministry draw up a timetable that will clearly show the citizens of the villages of Mokren, Padarevo and Gorno Alexandrovo how will the demands in the signature be met, and they are very simple to allow people to live as well as the inhabitants of the military base to have water, to have roads? I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u171	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. You're almost a minute and a half behind schedule. I've been kind enough to respect you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u172	Mr. Chairman, follow the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u173	I call on you to try to formulate the next questions within two minutes. Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Petrov, I will save my time to make amends. Mr. Petrov, thank you for your empathy, for your positive attitude towards the Euro-Atlantic cause of Bulgaria. Thank you for the support we receive both in the Commission and in the National Assembly. I'd like to tell you a few things. First of all, I don't know who put this petition together, but I suggest, as I see that you are well-intentioned, that we should visit the area together and talk to the people. I've been there a few times, and I've had a chance to talk to them. So far, we don't have any reason to worry about air pollution or anything else. 77 exercises were held in 2015 and the mayors of the respective settlements and local government were notified of the exact hours and dates of their holding. I inform you that over USD 3 million have been invested over the past five years and 42 projects under the Humanitarian Aid and Reconstruction Programme have been implemented. Among them are projects for repair of kindergartens, sports playgrounds, community centers, free eye examinations and others. Such projects are also implemented in the locations referred to in your questioning. Depending on the financial resource allocated, the implementation of projects under the Humanitarian Aid and Reconstruction Programme will continue in the future. In the period 2012 - 2015 is built the plumbing, which you ask about, which, apart from the polygon, can also be used by local people. In addition, I would like to emphasise that some 60 people from the region have been appointed in the study range of a permanent employment contract, which is really something I think is very good for local people. Dear Mr. Petrov, I am at your disposal with you to visit the area, to talk to the people. I think we could do a lot more for them and for the infrastructure in this area so difficult for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u175	Thank you, Minister Nenchev. I'll give you two minutes, Mr. Petrov, and I'll warn you if you delay them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u176	After all, give it to my lack of expression from the stands. I prefer to work in committees. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I would be delighted if we could make a common visit to these settlements. I really believe what you're saying is that you're behind the idea, and it has to be. These people have to be. . . I, by the way, grew up in this area, and I know what the noise pressure is. Now I live in Sliven, my home is in Sliven, on the other side of the Balkan. They must be compensated, they must be paid attention. I just want us to really go together and make up for these people, because whatever we do, we know that they're intruding with this base. Gorno Alexandrovo is a village which, if you see it in what kind it is, it is simply not normal to dwell. Not to mention the village of Padarevo, where I cannot go to my constituents from the huge holes and trappings on the roads. I'm going to suggest that we really go and deal seriously with the problems. I think you'll be the first minister to do, and I'm confident that you'll do the first thing that will make you feel there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u177	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. With this, the questions to you, dear Minister, are exhausted. We continue with questions to the Minister of Health Mr. Petar Moskov. The first question is asked by the MP Kiril Dobrev and his colleague Radoslav Stoychev about the properties of the specialized rehabilitation hospital in Kostenets municipality. You have the floor, Mr. Stoychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! Mr. Minister, there are three resorts in the municipality of Kostenets, the city of Momin prohod, the resort complex of Vili.............................................. Following democratic changes as a result of the restructuring of ownership and the lack of support funds, the material base there is in an extremely poor state, with the issue of its maintenance becoming particularly up-to-date after the given opportunity for municipalities to manage mineral water deposits free of charge. Kostenets is the first municipality in Bulgaria to receive permission to manage and use mineral water fields in Kostenets and Momin Pass. For unclear reasons, the majority of the buildings and facilities currently operated in this area, specialized hospitals for rehabilitation, are in ruin and have become ruins. In this regard, as well as as the Ministry of Health as sole owner of the capital of the Specialized Hospitals for Rehabilitation................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u179	Thank you, Mr. Stoychev. Dear Mr. Moskov, you have an opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u180	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dobrev, the Ministry of Health is currently gathering information about the properties of the building fund and land estates owned by the state health institutions. One of the tasks of this inspection is to review the properties which are not used or used for their intended purpose in order to give specific instructions for the future management or disposal thereof. As regards the provision of the property to the medical establishment of a concession to the municipality of Kostenets, I inform you: the municipality of Kostenets has not so far claimed any other request for the provision of the property except for a free transfer to property. Municipality of Kostenets cannot be concessionaire, according to art. 2, para. 1 of the Law on concessions, in which the concession is defined, its object and the parties to the procedure, namely: The concession is a right of operation on a site and/or of a public interest service provided by a concession to a commercial company of a capital company of a kind, against the obligation of the concession holder to build, manage and maintain the concession or to manage the service at its own risk. This is the formal answer to your question, otherwise let me tell you that at the time of yesterday, I think that there is a scheduled meeting between representatives of the SBR (skilled hospitals for rehabilitation) next week, i.e. the structure, the mayor of Kostenets and the chairman and members of the municipal council who are involved in the matter in order to seek a solution to the particular way. From a legal point of view, that is not the way the concession works.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u181	Thank you, Minister Moskov. Mr. Stoychev, you have a chance for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The question was asked somewhere before the vacation, maybe two months ago. You have already taken action to resolve this issue. In fact, if this is not the way to resolve the matter, to look together, as you said, there is already a meeting scheduled to resolve this issue and not continue to sink into destruction of property. And also to restore these valuable mineral baths to the benefit of all Bulgarian citizens, residents of the municipality, neighbouring municipalities, as well as all who need these balneological procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u183	And thank you, Mr. Stoychev. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? You don't want to. The next question is from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev on the delayed reimbursement of the drug for myelofibrosis by the National Health Insurance Fund. Mr. Kadyev, I don't see him in the room. We continue with the next question for you. However, he is again from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev and again I do not see him in the Chamber. [[The National Representative Georgi Kadiev enters the Chamber.]] You actually showed up, Mr. Kadyev. I'll give you a chance to ask Mr. Moskov your first question. It's about, again, the delayed reimbursement of the drug for myelofibrosis from the National Health Insurance Fund. Please develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't think the Secretary of Defense would be so quick to finish his questions. Dear Minister, my question is about the delayed reimbursement of a drug for myelophybrose by the NHIF. According to unofficial data, about 100 to 120 people suffer from this rare disease in which the bone marrow does not produce quality blood cells. It's a rare and severe disease. There is no official register of the sick, although it has been prepared for years. NHIF is currently taking only symptomatic treatment of the disease: blood transfusion, which is simply a retention of the situation without treatment. Patients are also given hydroxyurea, which, according to experts, is a medicine for another disease and is recommended for enlarged spleen. On the other hand, since 2011 in the United States and in 2012 for the whole European Union, the drug Automatically approved for Bulgaria as well. The disease is included in Regulation No 38 of the Minister of Health and the medicine is also included in the Positive Drug List. Despite the lack of obstacles, the drug is not reinhibited by the NHIF, and the price of the free market is about 10,000. lv. a month, which is virtually unattainable for any of these patients. The amount of 5 million is needed for the treatment of all patients in the country by the end of the year. BGN, and these are calculations that I have been doing at the time of asking the question "July 10, 2015, that is, at the moment it is even smaller. Without this medicine, the outlook for the sick is very negative and their condition can deteriorate to death at any time. In relation to this information, please answer the following questions: what is the reason for the delay in the reimbursation of the drug for myelofibrosis by the NHIF? When will the treatment with this drug be reimbursed by the NHIF? When will the records of the sick of this severe and rare disease be completed? How many new cases of the disease are detected annually, and what would be the cost of treating the sick annually outside the initial costs of treating the sick at this time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u185	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u186	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadyev, in order to have time to tell you what I need to tell you, I'm beginning to get to the point. In accordance with Annex No 16 "Clinical trails' and Annex No 19 "Clinical procedures' to the National Framework Treaty for 2015, the indicated therapeutic indications of the medicinal product Jakavi are not present in the diagnostic and therapeutic algorithm of the relevant clinical pathways and procedures. The medicinal product will be reimbursed by the National Health Insurance Fund after the inclusion of the disease Myelofibrose in the algorithm of the existing clinical pathways/clinical procedures of the National Framework Treaty, when updating the existing or when adopting a new National Framework Treaty in accordance with the requirements of art. 54 of the Health Insurance Act. At present, a procedure is under way to establish a List of Rare Diseases. A proposal for inclusion of the disease Myelofibrose can make practitioners with a recognized medical specialty - that is, this is the way to be included; national consultants; managers of rare diseases expert centres; coordinators of reference networks for rare diseases; medical science companies. The proposal to include Myelofibrose on the List must be addressed to the Committee on Rare Diseases established by the Order of the Minister of Health. According to the opinion of the national consultant for the clinical haematological professor. Georgy Mihailov on a national scale, the number of patients with Myelofibrose is limited to about 20, and with regard to the effectiveness of treatment in Bulgaria there is too limited experience with this product. According to the national consultant, treatment can continue until the benefit risk balance remains positive. However, treatment should be discontinued after six months if no reduction in spleen size or improvement in symptoms has been observed after initiation of therapy. I can talk to you about the price, but the road is this way. Beyond the formality of the reply, negotiations are currently taking place between the importing company and the management of the National Health Insurance Fund in terms of the parameters of the inclusion of this product. As far as I know, the negotiations are going along the line of risk sharing and the volume deal price. That's all I can say right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u187	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Moskov. The People's Representative Georgi Kadiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u188	Thank you for the answer, Mr. Moskov, on behalf of the 20 people who have this rare disease in Bulgaria. According to their data, since they came and asked for a meeting with me, they're about 100, but never mind, we won't argue. Whether there are 20 or 100, as a number are few, but as people who are still citizens of Bulgaria and have their right to heal and live, and all this depends on a sum of money, and on some process that needs to be walked, as you said, to be included in a certain list. I hope all this will be done quickly, because like this disease are many others, and there is medicine. It's a shame to have medicine and people die because either there's no money, or even in this case, that's not the reason, but not the way to put it on the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u189	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. A hole? You don't want to. Mr. Kadiev, in order you are again asking the Minister of Health, and it is about the policy of the Ministry of Health to emergency medical care in the country. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here we are already moving on to one of the topics that is one of Minister Moskov's favorites. You remember that, as early as the beginning of the year, emergency assistance became one of the key topics of healthcare reform. The debate then revolved mostly around the safety of the doctors in emergency care. There are a few other problems left on the sidelines. One of them is the pay of these doctors, another is technical security and the reform itself within emergency aid. A number of health ministers have repeatedly put the need for an increase in wages in the sector. If it had only happened since 2012 all the promises that have been made, currently the average salary of emergency doctors would have exceeded BGN 1100. However, it is currently about 30% less, which demotivates employees. Regarding working conditions, during the mandate of Minister Moskov was discussed an important topic for the security of doctors, but other topics were ignored, such as the depreciation of medical equipment, hospital facilities, sanitary cars, the provision and quality maintenance of workwear and even sanitary conditions at emergency services stations. In some of them employees also signal the presence of large populations of parasites, such as fleas. These issues are particularly ill in the emergency medical services offices in the settlements outside the district centers of the country, with the additional question of providing adequate transport for emergency medical staff from the branches to the emergency medical centers. In relation to all these factors, in order to reduce my question to some extent and to enter time, I would like to ask you the following questions: Are you planning an increase in remuneration in emergency medical care? At what pace and in what specific time periods? What measures do you intend to take to ensure the material security and support of emergency assistance in Bulgaria in view of the recent amendments to the Health Act? Do you plan to expand the social benefits of employees in this area in order to preserve the personnel in the system and increase their motivation, including by providing service transport in certain cases, as I said, from the centres to affiliates? What control does the Ministry of Health have of sanitary and sanitary conditions in emergency care centres and emergency medical facilities, and what changes in the organisation of emergency medical care are you planning to reduce the time to move emergency care teams and the availability of adequate equipment in sanitary vehicles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u191	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. For an answer, Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kadiev! I'm not going to read the written answer because I know it by heart. First, for the remuneration of the workers. This year's budget, voted by you, has put funds in the budget of the Ministry of Health to increase the remuneration of emergency workers by an average of 20%. At present there is no doctor in the emergency system to receive basic remuneration below 1000 BGN. With the accumulations, they're getting pretty serious. For the first time in many years there has been a reversal of the trend, i.e. the amount of medical aid received is greater than the number of leavers. This also has specific dimensions. For example, the number of teams in Sofia on duty for less than a year from an average of 12.. 13 on duty are currently between 23 and 25. From the point of view of the material base, were purchased by decree of the Council of Ministers 56 new reanimobiles, new ambulances, distributed respectively two in each of the districts. They were also purchased by a decree of the Council of Ministers for 18 centers 25 telemedical devices and were partially refurbished, as far as the funding reached, a purely domestic part of the centres and branches of emergency assistance. In fact, the real change in the emergency infrastructure is even with the already approved programme "Regions in growth" for modernization of emergency aid, which is worth 85 million. Euros. It includes, within four years, a complete renovation of the fleet, gradually over time. These are 600 new ambulances, with 400 of them under European funding and 200 under state funding, located over time. We're re-energizing the building again. The process of clearing the property is currently under way within a very short period of time for each of the subsidiaries and centres of emergency assistance. The transformation of emergency services offices where they are the only medical establishment, the only red cross that shines, to the place, for example, as in Elena, in emergency reception rooms with an infirmary, with beds, diagnostics and reporting opportunities for the real need of this town or village where the branch is located, needs hospitalization in a hospital, or the condition can be controlled by the resources of those working there, or can be directed to the personal physician. In addition, this project is set and funding is already guaranteed because it is approved, restructuring and equipment renovation of all emergency hospitals that are part of this whole system. Basically, that's what I can say about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u193	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You do not wish to make two supplementary questions. We are moving on to the next question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov on a consortium of hospitals in Varna. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, we learn from the media that during your visit to Varna you have proposed that public, municipal and private hospitals in Varna should be united in a consortium. Minister, please answer how do you see the realization of this proposal? Who's gonna run the assets? How will state and municipal property be protected? How will the functions in the realization of such an idea be distributed? Please be specific because the Varna public and Varna people are interested in what the future of hospitals will be in terms of your actions as a minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u195	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u196	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, the sick neither in Varna nor in Burgas nor in Tutrakan are interested in the form of hospital management, but in the service and fullness of this service provided by the medical institutions. At least that's what I think. If you have an opinion that the sick are interested in the form of hospital property, I am inclined to agree with you. In implementing such intention, a consortium, which is part of the forms of unification of commercial companies under the Commercial Law, as there are several others, the participants in it unite their efforts to organise and carry out joint activities. The specific conditions are regulated by a contract which governs the rights and obligations of the parties in it.. the management of the assets, the economic governance of the unification. It does not affect the independence of individual medical institutions and retains legal autonomy. Regarding the question asked, how will state and municipal property be protected in the event of such a merger, we should clarify that the medical institutions manage their own property which have lost the status, respectively, of municipal property when converted into commercial companies. So all the questions you're talking about are settled between the partners. It is clear what ownership management is, who represents the company, under what conditions, what asset management is, how financial position is taken into account, how revenue is determined. All of this is signed in specific contracts, such as thousands and thousands of trading companies around the world conclude daily. Here the idea is not to keep some property because it was his own, but the different types of property to guarantee patients that such a union provides a better, more complete or only complete medical service, which I do not believe to be you or any reasonably thoughtful person. My firm belief is that this must be enshrined in a law with the way of funding. It is deeply wrong to continue to believe that the NHIF can finance only one episode of your or my treatment as a patient. If for this purpose it is necessary for the system to reorganize the hospital care system to meet my and your needs as a patient, to do so and to have the appropriate financial incentives for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u197	Thank you. Here's a line for you, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, I think you're pretending that you don't understand what the question is. I speak on behalf of Varna people because I am elected by 3. Varna multi-mandated electoral area, but this concerns all Bulgarian citizens. We all know that public hospitals are commercial companies. My concern is that in your person as Minister of Health upon your permission as principal for entering such consortiums, the interest of the owner, which is some form of public property, will not be protected. Would you agree that a consortium of public and private hospitals can be represented by companies with private ownership? Or will the state in any way be harmed as property in hospitals, participating in such a consortium, agreeing to be part of a consortium to be a party to the contract with the Health Insurance Fund? Because that's what you recommend. Bulgarian citizens rely more on old hospitals, which are still state-owned or most of the property is state-owned and municipal. We all know that individual clinical pathways, which are more expensive, are a priority of private hospitals, and on the non-costable, but extremely important, in terms of health care, remain in these hospitals with state and municipal property. What exactly are you predicting? The concerns we have are part of this debate, which we are obviously about to have with you. On many subjects we get away with your vision. What you call reform can certainly be argued whether it is useful for the future service of all Bulgarian citizens, to whom the state guarantees healthcare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u199	Thank you. For the doppelganger, Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Yankov! For the public fund, for the Cashier, for the State the form of ownership shall not constitute a reason for or not entering into a contract or for a different relationship. It is nice to learn already all, even the leftmost in BSP, that the form of property is not a reason for discrimination. How the state interests will be protected depends on the state. If the state is in place, they are protected, if they are not in place, they are not protected. This does not depend on whether the state is run by people who say that the state is everything or by people who believe that private property is not a problem. The question is to have statehood. Otherwise, what the public fund should be interested in is not, once again, I say, under what circumstances different entities with some form of property have gathered to meet the requirements of the NHIF regarding your treatment. That's the whole point of unification. It is aimed at an effect and the public fund to pay only for the result of your treatment. There's no other drama here, and I don't understand what the problem is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u201	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Krasimira Kovachka about the need for new regulation to ban artificial transfusions in Bulgaria. Here you go, Dr. Kovachka.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u202	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! The question I want to ask is about the new regulation to ban artificial transfusions in our country. This year, the European Cardiological Society, which represents more than 85,000 specialists, urged European politicians to follow the United States and to introduce regulation for a complete ban on artificial transfusions in the European Union. The statement states: "Basing the effects on cardiovascular health from trans fatty acids intake, the positive experience of various interventions to limit trans fatty acids intake and the accumulated knowledge of the different consumption of trans fatty acids in Europe, the European Cardiological Society believes that regulatory intervention is necessary to ensure that all citizens of Europe can effectively reduce the consumption of trans fatty acids. As early as 2008, the European Parliament published a study calling for a ban on trans fatty acids for the European Union. In 2009, the WHO concluded that the available information was sufficient to recommend the elimination of industrially produced trans fatty acids from use and last year called for a complete ban on trans fats in Europe. Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of mortality in Europe, contributing to 40% of these cases. Bulgaria, for its part, is at one of the first places in Europe on morbidity and cardiovascular mortality, which is also highlighted in the latest World Bank report. Treatment and recovery from these diseases is a long, complex and expensive process which seriously burdens the health system in Bulgaria. It is believed that an important cause of this high morbidity is poor nutrition and especially high consumption of trans fats. In addition, it is assumed that high consumption of trans fats can also lead to many other serious health problems and the occurrence of cancers, diabetes, obesity. Currently, three Member States of the European Union have introduced a ban on industrially produced trans fats in the food chain in Austria, Denmark and Hungary. In the US, it is estimated that the ban on trans fats, which has been in effect since this year and will lead to the elimination of trans fats there by June 2018, will cost the industry about 6.2 billion. $20 dollars to re-formulate the products. However, the benefit for the health system for 20 years will be more than 140 billion. The dollar. Dear Minister, given all that is said, the high incidence in our country of cardiovascular diseases, the proven causal relationship between the intake of trans fatty acids and the occurrence of these diseases, the low effectiveness of measures such as voluntary self-regulation of producers and marking of food products, we believe that the efforts should be directed towards a legislative ban on artificial transfusions in food in Bulgaria. In this regard, I would like to ask: what are the activities of the Ministry of Health on this important public health problem so far? What are the joint actions taken with the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency in this regard? What will be your policy and policy of the government at national and European level to ban the use of artificial trans fats in the near future?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u203	Thank you, Dr. Kovachka. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u204	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr Kovatchka, I will not read on the logic of the text, which describes and justifies your concern about the use of trans fatty acids with various scientific evidence, including decisions made on the territory of some countries. What the Ministry of Health is planning, it is not only within the Ministry of Health, but also the government, as a comprehensive program for a new healthy lifestyle, mainly for young people, because perhaps our habits with you will be more difficult to change. Regarding food and food harmfulness, what we are planning is a massive advertising campaign. I call it "advertising," but it is related to clearly placing labels on foods that contain more than a certain amount of trans fatty acids, salt, sugar and caffeine, which are one of the main reasons for your listed diseases or for unlocking others accompanying them. The idea that it didn't work with cigarettes was wrong. If you and I smoke, we don't come out of the idea that we're doing something useful. What's written on cigarettes doesn't matter. But if the mother who buys food for her child, some pastries or whatever she buys with trans-fat kisulins that you're talking about, if there's a big red dot on it, for example, it's a clear sign to the mother that she's buying something with harm to her child. Whether she knows it or not, we have to show it to her. In other words, such an advertising campaign is linked to a practically ready-made project, which we will start consulting with the various ministries to introduce an additional food tax containing certain harmfulities. We believe that it should be within about 10% of the value and be equivalent to the tax legislation which, along the line of environmental legislation relating to packaging processing and so on, is paid. Assuming that for a box of non-alcoholic containing a huge amount of sugar, a huge amount of caffeine or something, if now under Bulgarian law a fee is paid, such a tax on the packaging, which is aluminum or so-what it is to be recycled in a certain way, we believe that part of this overall campaign, in which we pay attention to young people, that the different lifestyle is modern, useful, intelligent, must impose such a tax on the content, and that it should therefore be a reason for the manufacturer to change the content over time and keep it under the minimum. This is not necessarily a new taxation. Just don't fill it up to half with sugar and you won't be taxed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u205	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Kovatchka.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, colleagues! I see that the Ministry's table has raised the issue of public health. I think we need a very serious job here. Public health problems are not just the problem and the question I asked you. Specifically, I think there should be a long-term strategy that concerns not only the Ministry. That's why I asked about the government's national agenda. Here there should be regulation and control of the manufacturer, regulation of labelling and designation, and the Ministry should have huge information among the population, among its entire network of medical institutions from general practitioners to all types of specialized establishments about what the importance of nutrition is and what it eats. However, it is nice for the Ministry with this strategy to do an analysis of the effect that will bring all of this. If this analysis occurs and there is an explanation among the population, it will lead to a reduction in the financial resources from the treatment of really socially significant diseases, which lead to these problems that I have tried to point out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Kovachka. Would you like to do the doppelganger? No. Let's move on to the next question. He is one of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and Georgi Gokov on Ordinance No 3 of 2000 on Health Offices in kindergartens and schools of the Ministry of Health. Mr. Gokov, are you going to develop the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! I'll brief you on an act of the Ministry of Health. This is Decree No 3 of 2000. This Ordinance No 3 of the Ministry of Health has been working for more than 15 years. It provides for the organization and activities of the health offices in children's institutions and schools in the Republic of Bulgaria. After so many years of the action of this Ordinance, it becomes clear that there are a number of shortcomings and creates serious problems for example: the number of students who serve a healthcare professional, the medical list in the Annex to the Ordinance, requirements for postgraduate training on health prevention and promotion, medical ecology and nutrition, the interrupted connection between the personal, family doctor and the medical professional from the health care office of the children's establishment or school. There are serious problems. People turn to us as MPs. Therefore, our question to you, given the above, is as follows: are there any changes to Regulation No 3 of the Ministry of Health of 2000 for health offices in childcare facilities and schools? In what direction and direction will these changes be made? On what time do you commit to becoming them?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u209	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Come in for an answer, Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u210	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Nino, Dear Mr. Gokov, Ministry of Health has prepared a draft for a new Regulation on the structure and operation of the health offices and their health requirements, in which are detailed the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the persons working in the health offices, as well as the activities that are carried out in the health offices. About the number of students serving a healthcare professional, art. 5, para. 1. The draft Ordinance on the structure and operation of the health offices and health requirements thereof shall end the requirement for a minimum number of children/students served by one healthcare professional. In the draft new regulation in art. 6, para. 4 an upper limit is set for the number of children/students served up to 200 children and up to 800 students, from one health care professional in one or more kindergartens or one or more schools for an eight-hour working day. About the medicinal list, Annex 2 to art. 5, para. 6. The list of medicinal products and medical devices has been fully updated. In addition, additional types and quantities of medicinal products and medical devices are available on the basis of a recommendation made by the physician who carried out the preventive examination of the child/student, which is reflected in the coupon for a follow-up. About the requirements for postgraduate training on problems of prevention and promotion of health, art. 3, para. Art. 3 and Art. 6, para. 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 of the draft order is written a text which regulates the training of medical specialists from the health offices. Training shall be provided for first aid in emergency situations in an emergency health care centre, as well as for the problems of disease prevention, health promotion and compliance with hygiene and anti-epidemic regime, in regional health inspections and/or at the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis, respectively. Regarding the claim of the interrupted connection between the personal physician and the health care professional from the kindergarten office and the school. We believe that the provisions of art. 14 Section V "Ducummentation in the health offices" of the draft order will change this finding. Personal physicians of children/students, as well as dentists, have an obligation to complete the Talon annually for a follow-up of a child/student and a Talon for a follow-up with the data from the preventive examinations of children and students carried out in the relevant year, as required by Regulation No 39 of 2004 on preventive examinations and dispensation. In addition, persons working in the health offices, with the assistance of the Director of kindergarten and the school, shall require the parent, guardian, guardian or person caring for the child/student from September to the end of December of each calendar year to provide the coupons for personal physicians to carry out preventive examinations. At present, the draft Ordinance on the structure and operation of health offices and health requirements to them is in a procedure of coordination by the competent directorates in the Ministry of Health, after which it will be proposed for adoption by the Ministry of Health and, as the procedure requires, to be public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u211	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, I'm basically pleased with the answer you're giving me. I just want to tell you a few pointing things. Firstly, healthcare reforms are really necessary. The National Assembly and you as a minister are very quick to react in this direction, but we on the left did not like the direction, but the point is that you are working. You have the responsibility for this as governors and so we accept, but I would like to tell you that a number of regulations and other acts of the Ministry of Health create difficulties for work, and they do not need a clumsy passage through the National Assembly, but should be done more quickly. Now I heard from you that we're doing the Regulation, but I didn't hear when you were gonna let her go and we're gonna accept her. When will you accept the Regulation and when will it take effect? This one, first. Secondly, I have heard a few things from you on the issue that Mrs. Nino and I have asked, but there are problems there, such as the municipality's employer, and permissions are requested from the school director. That's messed up in the Regulation. These people don't know whether to listen to the employer or the other one who tells them what it's called. What you said about the number of students is great because it's almost impossible in small towns to happen. However, for postgraduate training, you say again at emergency services, but there is no such training. They are now passing it into the Bulgarian Red Cross and emergency assistance had no such functions, according to the people who meet with us, and you are sending it there again. Take a look at this. The drugs in the health office. I'm glad you're going to enrich the list, but people say that the medicines in the health cabinet are not allowed to put these medicines without a doctor, and they're just waiting to run out of shelf life to load new ones. It's nice that you're expanding them, but we need to think about that, too. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I expect you to answer at least for the term of the Ordinance and when it will be adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u213	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u214	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, Dear Mr. Gokov, let's not throw myself away, but at the beginning of October at the latest the Regulation will be public, subject to discussion. All the questions and additions you have in mind may not be limited, but do them now to the Ministry. I invite you, if you have any ideas, we are available to complete this document.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u215	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question, which is the last one provided in today's response program by the Minister of Health and he is one of the MPs Emil Raynov and Mr. Georgi Gokov regarding the severely beaten doctor of the State Psychiatric Hospital. Ivan Rilski. In Kurilo. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I'm sorry to be returning to such a problem and digging into it again. Dr. Ilko Gruev, dermatologist at the Sofia Fifth City Hospital was accommodated for treatment at the State Psychiatric Hospital. Ivan Rilski, a.k.a. Kurilo. It is said that the mental disorder of the doctor is provoked by the fact that he will be out of work because the ward in which he worked is being closed. On 21 July he was brutally beaten and placed in the central resuscitation of Pirogov in critical condition and there he died. In view of these facts, we address you with the following question: what actions have you taken in connection with the alleged violence at the State Psychiatric Hospital. Ilko Ilarionov's Ivan Rilski....as a result of which he died at the Clinic of Intensive Treatment in Pirogov? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u217	Thank you. For an answer, the Minister of Health Dr. Petar Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u218	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear gentlemen Raynov and Gokov, I will not enter into a story about the deceased's history. I will give you the document, and if you think it should continue this work, do so. Regarding the specific question, that is, I will not give an answer, Mr. Gokov, to the question of when it started, how it ended and so on, because there must be little humanity in all this work and not everything is politics. Regarding the verification of the IA, which I have appointed to investigate the case. On the basis of the circumstances and recommendations of the IA, the management of health accepted the possibility of the following measures: - Bending the medical establishment on the territory of Sofia, for which we are in negotiations with Sofia Municipality. There the living conditions are essentially not good. - Recruitment of doctors in psychiatry, and we are currently shaping the possibility for funding to go through European programmes and projects. There are specific programs, along with the Ministry of Social Services, we do this. At the moment, 112 doctors have been enrolled for training in the specialty of Psychiatry, of which 55 are currently specialized. It's from the power of filling the personnel potential with psychiatrists, which is not easy. - The wages of working medical professionals in state psychiatric hospitals will increase in order to increase motivation and keep them there. Of course, it won't be in great order, but we'll go this way. We have a separate resource for that. - Detailed rules and procedures for accompanying and serving patients will be laid down in the Rules on the structure and functioning of the internal order of each particular hospital for fixed psychiatric aid, in accordance with the medical standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u219	Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, it has been a long time since the incident "21 July 2015. I remember that at the beginning of the term of office you reacted very quickly to the issue of the beaten medics and received the admiration of society, including ours, I would like to stress that, it has come to legislative changes and criminalisation of such actions. I say again, admiration for this, but this incident has shown another side of the attitude towards people with mental problems. You have to react quickly and adequately here. Unfortunately, I am sorry to say this, but I did not notice such a rapid reaction, because immediately after the case it was stated that the Health Ministry would give more information to the public about the case because such cases are of interest to the public. None so far. If we look on the Internet, for example, the latest news on the case is from the next day of the event, from the beating. Perhaps the hope of the Ministry is to forget the case, it is not bad and forget it, because these are shameful cases, but if we forget this case, I ask myself, how long? Until the next incident like this? And as if I'm not getting adequate information from you right now, even though what you said would probably be good for this hospital and especially for those with such problems. I won't speculate on who unlocked the mental problem with the doctor. But we owe the public answers as to why such incidents may occur in a Bulgarian medical facility. And, of course, we also owe an answer as to what are the guarantees that there will be no such cases in the future. That is why it is our question, which is no longer relevant, but requires answers to express intolerance to such cases and make it impossible for such things to happen in the future. Again, I'm sorry we're looking into this case. That's what it looks like at first sight. But the purpose and idea of the question is precisely to avoid such cases becoming impossible in the future and repeating them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u221	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mrs. Nino, Dear Mr. Raynov, Dear Mr. Gokov! I really won't say another word in public about this case. The case has been adequately responded, quickly. Everything, the whole specific of what happened, is here. If that's what you need as information and desire, as far as I'm required to provide it to you under the law, but I refuse to do it in front of the microphones. I don't think certain human tragedies should do a show. I explained and stuck to saying what the measures were so as not to allow further such things, which I talked about, how quickly and how we will be able to enter them, it is your job to follow and answer. Do you want this paperwork?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u223	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This was the last question provided for you today, with which you fulfilled your constitutional obligations to answer parliamentary questions and questions. Have a nice day and enjoy your work! We are going to answer an up-to-date question from the Minister of Culture Mr. Vejdi Rashidov. The question will be asked by the People's Representative. Stanislav Stanilov on the bathroom of Suleiman the Magnificent in Aquae Calidae Burgas. Professor Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u224	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is very brief. The construction activities of Suleyman's Bathroom Magnificent in Aquae Calidae Burgas are over. In this regard, I ask you to answer me if, in your opinion, other than Ottoman monuments, those of the Thracian, Roman and Byzantine period will be socialized as well? That's my short question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u225	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, dear Mr. Stanilov! In relation to the question you have asked, I will inform you of the following. Since 2008, large archaeological studies of the ancient and medieval and medieval fortress Aquae Calidae Thermopolis have been carried out. During this period were revealed part of the Roman bath, built in the II and III century, fragments of the fortress wall, separate buildings from the periods of Antiquity, Late Antiquity and the Middle Ages. Fully or partially explored the eastern wall of the Roman bath, three locker rooms and two cold water pools. The preservation and restoration of the Ottoman bath was carried out in parallel with archaeological studies. In 2015, a museum exhibition covering the history of the ancient fortress in the period II....................................... A map has been prepared with a route and a virtual tour that presents the past of Aquae Calidae from the first millennium before Christ to the latest time, emphasising the fact that mineral water has been used during the different periods of Thracians, Elins, Romans, Byzantines, Bulgarians and Ottomans. Regarding the other archaeological sites on the territory of the fortress were completely preserved, partially restored, exposed and fully explored the southeast dressing rooms, half of the eastern wall of the Roman bath. Currently, the full study of the cold water pool is complete, as well as of the sewer system that feeds and drains them. It is planned at the end of September to proceed to their conservation under the regulations. The already mentioned exposed objects are in the process of socialization. A reference sign has been designed and the approaches to the sites are prepared, waiting for the completion of the archaeological excavations for their establishment. There is a study of a separate site for the building museum Aquae Calidae, where constructions from the different periods of Antiquity and the Middle Ages will be included. The financing of the project works and their implementation is provided by the municipality of Bourgas.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u227	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u228	I see, Minister, that you are not well with your health, which I apologize for forcing you to come here to parliamentary control. However, this was an up-to-date issue and it has a somewhat provocative focus to call on you to speed up these works, as this is an extremely important monument and has high value for the Bulgarian cultural past. The equality of monuments from different periods is very important and it must be constantly respected and not followed by the rule that is happening in Bulgaria and it is a mistake, which is more preserved and monumental, to be brought forward in its socialization, and the other monuments that are more destroyed, to be overshadowed by it. That's the point of my question. Indeed, once the work is done from my point of view, I will decide what has been done and perhaps the parliamentary control will meet again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u229	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat. Until you move, Professor. Stanilov, can I ask you to give the MP Lyubomir Vladimirov three written answers? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u230	Mr. Chairman, if you'll excuse me, I'm not stationed today. It happens to everyone. Mr. Stanilov, look, I have infinite respect for you, so I allow myself to say a few more words because you are an experienced person and a restorer with a lot of experience. I understand your question. But for me, everything that's history has to go parallel. In no case are we talking about emphasising a period or a period or a historical monument. Of course, it is, as you ask, it will be. What I can tell you personally, I have succeeded, and I am glad that I was able to find half a million sponsor money for Aquae Calidae, as in Latin it is right to say. September 18th is the deadline to find him. So I would be very happy to invite you, of course, as a professional, to attend, to be together at the opening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-04.u231	Thank you, Minister Rashidov. With this, the questions provided for you are exhausted. It's 2:00. All questions provided for the answers by ministers today are given, answered. The next meeting of the National Assembly is Wednesday, 9 September, at 9.00 p.m. I am adjourning today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
