ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, one message: On 17 June 2015 the National Assembly received a decision to terminate proceedings No. FP-41-15-101 of 9 June 2015 of the Commission to prevent and establish a conflict of interest in connection with an alert lodged against Vanya Doneva Georgieva, Chairman of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors, and Simeon Parvanov Milev, Todor Dimitrov Shopov, Ivan Kunchov Mavrov and Ognyan Georgiev Simeonov, members of the same Commission. By my letter, the material was provided to the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Moving on to: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAWS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. The bills are several: two bills with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs from 27 October 2014; a bill of Mr. Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs from 27 October 2014; a draft of the Council of Ministers; a draft of Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs and a draft of Petar Slavov from 5 January 2015. A continuation of the plenary debate held on Friday 20 February 2015. Members of parliament Metodi Andreev, Philip Popov, Krasimir Karakachanov, Yavor Notev and Korman Ismailov participated in the debate so far. I recall the remaining time of the parliamentary groups, which is: for GERB PG 21,28 min.; for SG of BSP left Bulgaria.. 18.5 min.; GG of DPS "11,34 min.; RB SG 15,21 min.; GG of PF 835 min.; GG of BDZ 14 min.; for AG of the Party; PG of ABB.. 13 minutes. Independents have 2.52 minutes. The debate continues. Mr. Kazak's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Madam President, I am making a procedural proposal on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms on the basis of art. 78, para. 1 of our Rules of Procedure to join the discussion today of this item on the agenda and Draft No 554-01-87 of 8 May this year, submitted by Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs. The reasons are as follows: although this bill has not been discussed in the Legal Commission together with the laws included at the point of amendment of the Penal Code, it treats the same matter which is the subject of one of the tabled by MPs, namely the one tabled by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. So, as we have repeatedly pointed out, we have no claims specifically on this issue of sole authorship or a unique position. We are ready to support all the bills that aim to solve this problem, namely the non-prevention of crimes committed by the communist regime. So from the point of view of the fact that this topic is anyway part of the debate today and is the subject of one of the draft laws under discussion, let us join the debates and the vote at first reading and the votes tabled by Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. You're right there's a connection between the various bills. In addition to what you have quoted, there are two other bills to amend and supplement the Penal Code, one of which is the Council of Ministers, which are not on the agenda. The only argument for this is that, under this group of bills, six of them have already started the debate. There are MPs who have spoken on them. If we also join those who have not been the subject of the first debate since 20 February, we must answer two questions: We are starting a whole new debate to respect the opportunity of the MPs who have already taken part in the first six bills to have the opportunity to take account of the new ones that are involved, or are we making a whole new debate with a repetition of all types of bills? Once we have heard from Mrs. Manolova on the subject, I will offer you a solution to what you are proposing. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u4	Dear colleagues! Madam President, I ask you very much to adhere to the rules contained in the Rules of Parliament and for certain whims or party political interests not to violate procedures that exist in our latest history of parliamentaryism. In my opinion, and according to all those who have some parliamentary memory, such an action, a debate that has begun for several bills, to be extended to include a few more, is an absurd and unthinkable action. What does it mean that in all the bills that have entered the Chamber, we can import something extra to be included just like that, Adhok on the move? I ask you very much, if you put this proposal to the vote at all, to read the texts of the Rules that allow debate on bills to be extended with new ones. This would mean that parliamentaryism should be turned upside down and upside down, where everyone can move whatever they want and by the power of the majority to impose it in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u5	Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! In the so-called procedural situation, we are thinking in the following direction. Indeed, the bill submitted by colleague Metodi Andreev is on matter related to one of the bills we are dealing with in this package. We argue that the decision that my colleague Andreev proposes solves a severe conceptual dispute which is essential for the Institute of limitation in criminal law. That is why he has worked so hard for so long, gathered opinions, studied including international practice and practice of the European Court of Human Rights. That is why, in time, this Bill is well beyond the basic package that we are discussing at the moment and on which we have already had a partial debate. It makes sense in both opinions, and in what Mr. Kazak says, and what Mrs. Manolova says. Our proposal is in the following direction. We cannot unite the sixth with the five previous ones because they already have a different procedure of discussion, but we could, if we now postpone the discussion of the five, the Legal Commission will consider the bill of Mr. Metodi Andreev and in the next session they will be arranged one after the other, i.e. the package of the five and immediately after them is Mr. Andreev's Bill. For this reason, we are more inclined to propose a postponement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u7	From the procedural proposals that have been heard so far in time, the agenda has been proposed to the Presidential Council with the explicit agreement that there are other penal code bills that are not included for the reason I have pointed out. On those I announced, the debate began on 20 February 2015. No other proposals were made to include additional bills and this cannot happen as a procedural proposal in plenary. The only procedural proposal adopted today is to postpone this item from the agenda, which is why I am voting on Mr. Kirilov's proposal to postpone this item. Four on the agenda. We vote. Mr. Kirilov and next week there will be the question of what we are doing under the laws on which our debate has started and how to be united in a joint debate with this first group on which it has already started. I am counting on the Legal Committee to come up with a proposal on this matter. They voted 143 MPs: 99, against 23, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. So let's move on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE DELEGATION AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL PROCEEDING CODEX? A common project, drawn up on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 25 March 2015 with importers: the Council of Ministers of 30 December 2014, Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs from 21 January 2015 and Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs from 6 February 2015. The second vote report has been submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs on June 2015. Mr. Kirilov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention a Report on the General Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code by No 553-03-49 of the Law adopted on 25 March 2015 on the first vote amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code No 402-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014, Draft amending the Civil Procedure Code No 554 01-9, submitted by Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov and a group of MPs on 21 January 2015 and Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code No 554-01-25, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 6 February 2015. Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u9	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law. They voted 130 MPs: for 129, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u10	Proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov: A new § 1 shall be created: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), The party wishing to carry out an inadmissible promissory action against a person who is procedurally unfit and who does not have a legal representative or guardian may request the court before which the case is pending to appoint him a special representative in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law on Legal Aid. In this case, the costs are initially at the expense of the budget provided for in the Law on Legal Aid. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u11	Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u12	Dear colleagues! The vote on an extremely important Bill is pending, which would substantially alter the order in which banks and monopoly companies collect their obligations from citizens who are unable to pay off their debts. Because of the fact that the parliamentary majority at the first vote rejected bills that were submitted by BSP left Bulgaria and the Reformation bloc, these proposals will now need to be discussed as such, made between first and second readings, which creates certain difficulties, but this should not prevent the debate on the substance. It is clear the intention of the majority, which was expressed before the Legal Committee to reject these proposals, and since we are indeed holding both Bulgarian citizens and MPs who are in plenary to hear how important it is to support proposals that restrict banks and private judicial contractors, we will limit ourselves to holding the debates so that we do not dissolve them to an extent that cannot be honored by the minor importance. So our proposals, which are not particularly substantial and do not change the order in which private judicial contractors collect claims or banks and monopoly companies, these proposals, which are not particularly substantial and do not change that order, will not be protected from the parliamentary stand, given the intention of the majority to reject them. So I will refrain from a detailed argumentation of this proposal of ours, which the Legal Committee did not support and which is to be voted on. The only thing I would like to say is that if you support our proposal, you will allow persons who are procedurally incapable to rely on the appointment of trustees and special representatives in the proceedings in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law on Legal Aid. This would generally provide more opportunities for protection and more justice in the process of disadvantaged people. I think there is nothing wrong with supporting this, but if the parliamentary majority has another opinion, perhaps at least someone will argue it from the parliamentary platform.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u13	Any lines to Mrs. Manolova? I won't. Mr. Bayraktarov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, since there is indeed a very important Law to be voted on, such as the Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, with which justice should be served, and since you must be able to take an informed decision, I am obliged to show you two extremely fresh documents. This is a document from the European Commission, we received it yesterday on 17 June. This document is preceded by an extremely long procedure, which, through Mrs Boyka Marinska's Commission, we also obtained an official Commission decision on consumer rights protection. The document is officially registered in Parliament's Office. This document clearly shows that a large part of the banks introduce unfair clauses in the contracts, with which they practically bring a large part of the Bulgarian consumers of loans in a state of insolvency...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u15	Mr. Bayraktarov, we are discussing § 1 on Mrs. Manolova's proposal. It will come to this justification as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u16	Yes, just to justify what my colleague Mrs. Manolova said. From there, these people become victims of vicious practices, of private judicial contractors, and their lives are ruined. So we will decide whether to support it each paragraph separately, as it is extremely important how these things will be accepted. But keep in mind that an inspection is already under way and it will be most likely an open procedure for Bulgaria's punishment for non-compliance with the directive with which I have notified the Legal Commission under art. 417 GPC.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u17	- What's the line? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Bayraktarov! I allow myself to replicate with the clear awareness that I will give you the opportunity to continue to deviate on the subject, but the case you are referring to is not related to the GPC! The case you are referring to is known to us, our fellow lawyers from all parliamentary groups are dealing with the problems of the so-called................................ in Swiss francs. So the answers you're quoting concern that particular case. You can't mix things up! There is no connection with the GPC, but in the debate from now on, I really use the case to urge all my fellow Members to a conscientious debate, because undoubtedly all the texts are extremely heavy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u19	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Bayraktarov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kirilov, I assume that you are fully aware that we cannot look at all hundreds of thousands of cases, we do not have the physical possibility, but the case of the so-called Swiss francs is exactly in the hypothesis of all that we are going to consider today. When a bank with unfair clauses, in violation of the Consumer Protection Act... [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Wait, don't interrupt me, please! ... He led the client to bankruptcy, he entered the hypothesis of art. 417 for issuing an order for immediate execution, respectively an executive list and from there this person, this company is simply ruined and life, and everything!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u21	Did the state force this client to take credit in Swiss francs?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u22	Except it wasn't the client. I'll give you the letters to read, the correspondence, he was able to fool himself because he was deliberately misled. And it's not one, it's thousands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u23	Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u24	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I also take note of what Mrs Manolova said in order to inform and clarify some of the debates that have been held in the Legal Commission. I and there expressed my opinion that 95% of the texts tabled as proposals between first and second readings by Mrs Manolova do not fall within the scope of the draft laws adopted at first reading, as our Rules require such proposals to be made. Moreover, these bills, as rightly said, this Bill by Mrs Manolova and a group of MPs was rejected at first reading................... is a separate topic. In connection with the debate, which was heated at the point on the bills amending the Penal Code, I would say that in the matter which governs the proposals made by Mrs. Manolova, there is a bill of amendment and supplement to the Civil Procedure Code by the Group of the Patriotic Front. Apart from that, it became clear at the meeting that the scope related to the enforcement proceedings was also prepared by the Council of Ministers. It is uploaded to the website for public discussion and the position applied by Deputy Minister Petko Petkov was soon to submit this bill to the National Assembly after the adoption by the Council of Ministers and to be considered. In this regard, on all proposals that were made outside the scope of the general bill by Mrs Manolova, the Legal Commission ruled that they were inadmissible. Honor makes the statement of the Legal Commission as a position by colleagues from the Reformation Block Petar Slavov and Mr. Delchev, withdrawing their proposals, precisely with this argument. On the one hand, it would be unacceptable to examine, even more so, the adoption of texts which have not been seen and are not adopted at first reading in a debate in plenary, but, respectively, before that in the Commission. Imagine that we are only amending a single text of law, as happened yesterday with the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank, and some MP decided to make radical changes to the entire text of the Law, what would be the result of texts that were not seen at first reading to be adopted at second reading. So it turns out that in practice the Law is not adopted in two readings, as are the requirements of the Constitution and of the Rules, but only one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u25	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u26	Honourable Members, Madam President! There is no way behind procedural catch-ups and careless procedural explanations to hide any MP as to how he will vote on the upcoming texts. They are, anyway, part of the report of the Legal Committee because they are made according to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. So these excuses, my dear sir, you will give them to your constituents: why have you refused to appeal property valuations to a private court contractor, why have you rejected the proposals for changes in the call, why have you rejected the proposals to normalize the order in which banks will collect their duties, and not the position of power, twisting the hands of people who cannot pay their debts and bringing them to a tragic end of their lives? So you have yet to explain this, but do not try in any way to enter the procedure, because obviously you do not understand it. There is a huge difference between the start of bills, which are discussed at first reading, to submit a whole new one and to make proposals between first and second votes. [[Heckling]] In fact, our cause with Mr. Bajraktarov, which we have defended together, was to suppress the monopoly of banks and private judicial contractors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u27	But do it according to the law's order in a rule of law, Mrs. Manolova. Don't manipulate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u28	We did it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u29	You didn't do it. Because the report of the Legal Committee is incorrect, you should not have been allowed to submit proposals that are outside the subject of the bills voted at first reading. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u30	Madam President, I will have more time, as the time for a reply is running out, to remind you what position you hold on the amendments to the Law on referendums. After the ABB's bills were rejected, the Patriarchs' Laws were rejected to reduce the thresholds in plenary at first reading, you yourself said that you would support proposals between first and second votes in this direction. Even the President of the Legal Commission has made a proposal to extend the deadline so that you can understand exactly how to reduce the thresholds. So you will do the same thing we propose to do today for the banks, for the referendums next week. Please be consistent. You have stated it from the high platform of parliament and from several media that despite the rejection of the ABB Bill, you will support it at second reading. So let's be consistent.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u31	Time! Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u32	I can also draw a table of other examples, including the case of pension funds that... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u33	Time's up and you're off topic, Mrs. Manolova. Second line? [[Noise and lines.]] A line to Mr. Mitev, and a third line to Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u34	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Mitev, just state the reason why Mrs. Manolova's proposals, which is art. 81, para. 2 of our Rules. And let's not think about what would happen in the future if someone did something and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u35	Third line, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mitev, I would like to tell you that your speech was in style: You told the voters that their rights might once be taken into account and protected by the Civil Procedure Code. That's what you did.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u37	Why didn't you accept them?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u38	Secondly, this interpretation of the Rules you are trying to impose is absolutely shy. I can tell you that the wording of the Rules should be interpreted in the sense that there is no possibility to make proposals between first and second readings which do not comply with the scope and principles only when we are considering a new draft law, because then we can talk about principles of the Law and not partial amendments, as is the case here. So, colleague Mitev, do not insult your constituents, they are looking at you now, they will understand that you are the obstacle to defending their rights. That's the truth. [[Comments from GERB: Where were they? On Buzludja.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u39	A hole, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u40	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Manolova, Mr. Georgiev, I always thought that Bulgaria was the rule of law, but from your statements I am beginning to doubt that this is the case. If the National Assembly does not comply with the rules that have been adopted, they were good, how can we expect citizens to comply with these rules? As for the explanations to my constituents, don't worry, I meet them every week. I think I understand myself well enough. [[(Reply from BSP LB: Are they satisfied?]] They're happy, yeah. At this point, they're happy. [[Heckling]] As regards the protection of debtors' rights, you should bear in mind that we have tabled a Bill. I and my entire group supported Mrs. Manolova's project at first reading. The rules in a democratic state allocate the parliamentary forces to a majority and to the opposition the majority has decided not to be adopted. I say again: for me your suggestions were justified, but given that they were rejected at first reading, to use the same procedural catch you accuse me of, well, to put it mildly incorrect. More than that. Mrs. Manolova, you should have made sure that in the previous National Assembly when you had a majority, this bill was passed. Going back in time, I remember that in 2007, you participated in the working group that adopted this Civil Procedure Code, and apparently the work that you did on it was not perfect, given that so many amendments were required and I still have to defend the rights of citizens, provided that when the initial text of the GPC was adopted, they were not protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u41	Any other MPs? I expect someone to speak on the proposed text about the paragraph for changes in art. 29. Everything else we've heard so far, but not the specific changes proposed for art. 29, para. Two on the GPC. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u42	Madam President, honourable Members! My speech will be as brief as possible. The aim is this: firstly, on the accusations on your part, I do not accept them. The report is entirely correct, extremely correct. I think that the Legal Committee here has made the utmost effort to include all the proposals and all these proposals to be actually voted, regardless of the grounds for eligibility or intolerance, but to consider them in substance as well. The specific text we are discussing at the moment has also been discussed from a procedural point of view. It's a brand-new text. Such a text on that norm was there in the first-vote reports that were adopted at the first vote accordingly. In essence, against this text proposed by Mrs Manolova, there is a sharp reaction of the Legal Aid Bureau, because with this populist, let us say, a protective gesture proposed, a budget is burdened which is not able to bear these costs and this burden. Once again, the Commission rejected this text with two votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u43	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Slavov has the floor to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Before I get to the specific text, I am obliged to draw attention to an incorrect statement that came from the left. There is no rejected bill of the Reformation bloc, on the contrary, what we have imported together with colleagues from GERB is supported. The proposals were partly initiated by the Supreme Court of Cassation, so this has been adopted and is currently under consideration. The other imprecise which I am also obliged to draw attention to, which the fellow Member from the Patriotic Front said, is that we have withdrawn our proposals. No, we have not withdrawn them, but we have adopted the Commission's decision that they are inadmissible and will not be considered on this basis as they go beyond the scope of the bill under consideration. Otherwise, we believe that they are correct and we are pleased to see that, in the public consultation bill announced a few days ago on the website of the Ministry of Justice, they are present in their majority. We hope very soon that it will be brought into this House and supported by a large majority, so that these changes can also be adopted. We are behind our proposals. Obviously, we will vote for them, and once the Commission has accepted that they are inadmissible and will be rejected in this way by the majority, it is now his decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u45	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u46	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Slavov, after we returned to the debates by 2007, it is normal to return by the end of 2014, when a whole new bill was tabled between the first and second votes of the state budget, which was adopted on an extremely important topic, with the second pillar of the pension system, the so-called professional supplementary insurance funds. That is, then, the people's second pension contributions by voting at one reading were adopted by this parliamentary majority and this was not a problem, it was not beyond the scope, and now when it comes to proposals related to the adopted bill submitted by Mr. Bajraktarov, at one point there is a problem. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Slavov! I would just like to warn you that next week, when it comes to discussing the Law on referendums, you will be faced with the same hypothesis. There is rejected your bill for reducing thresholds, it appears that GERB will to support your proposals and at some point you will have to give them up with the ridiculous argument that at first reading these texts have been rejected in the general bill. There is no way that you can spin like pumpals and anything can at the end of 2014, then in June of 2015 it can't, and then in July of 2015 it can. There's no way! The rules in at least one parliamentary session, in one Parliament, must be the same, not to mention that they are recorded in the Parliamentary Rules. As far as the Council of Ministers' bill is concerned, I mean, this is a disaster. Absolutely palliative! None of the problems of executive production are solved, in particular by the Bulgarian citizens. If you want, we will discuss it in parallel with the proposed texts. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Don't wash your hands with him!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u47	Two minutes and ten seconds, Mrs. Manolova. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Manolova, I'm trying to follow the rules, and when someone broke them, I'm trying to point out to him that he broke them and convince him not to break them again, and I'm not starting to break them on that basis. I don't know if you in the BSP are doing this, but at least me and my colleagues in the Reformation Block are trying to be principled and follow the rules, even when they don't like us. What I have heard from your line is that you are trying to convince me and teach me to clearly perceive this practice when the bill is rejected at first reading, then to import it between the two readings as a proposal between first and second readings. Well, obviously this is contrary to the rules, to sound logic and at least it is not right for colleagues to do so in a similar way! I suggest that we do not impose this practice permanently and comply with the Rules, at least try to abide by it if we do not really do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u49	Any other MPs for speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote the proposal to amend art. 29, para. 2 by the GPC of Mrs. Manolova and the gentlemen Georgiev, Ivanov, Popov and Karagyov. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 106 MPs: 28 against 48, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u50	Proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev: At the beginning of the bill, a new paragraph 0 shall be created with the following content: ................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47 the following 1. In para. 1 sentence first after the word "the defendant" shall be added in "percentage of one month." A new sentence 3 shall be created: The inability to find the defendant should be found with at least three visits to the address at different times and with an interval of at least one week between each of them. 2. In para. The first sentence of the sentence shall show the applicant to submit a statement of reference and shall be replaced by the words of the applicant's official inspection. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov: A new paragraph 2 is being created: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the first sentence, after the Union, the expression "in' shall be added. for a period of one month and for a period of one month; (b) a third sentence shall be created, with an interval of at least one week between each of them. 2. In para. 3 in a sentence, first, the expression "shows the plaintiff to submit a reference' shall be replaced by the expression "supplied'. 3. In para. 6 and the statement of expenditure of the applicant shall be replaced by the statement of expenditure provided for in the Law on Legal Aid. In this case, the costs are initially at the expense of the budget provided for in the Law on Legal Aid. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u51	Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u52	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! These are part of the important changes we propose in the Civil Procedure Code and in enforcement proceedings. This folder that I carry with me [[shows thick folder]] , contains the letters I have received only in the last three weeks with dramatic fates of Bulgarian citizens and companies as a result of the breaches that exist in the legislation and the vicious practices used by both banks and private judicial contractors. One of the most serious problems for Bulgarian citizens is related to the call, with a practice which we introduced so that the judicial processes are not delayed, namely the possibility that in cases where a citizen is not found at his address, he should be informed of a court case or enforcement proceedings by sticking to a notice of the action to be carried out. In this way, dozens of citizens have come to light directly with sold properties because they never understand, firstly, that an executive sheet has been issued against them for the benefit of a bank or another monopoly company; then they do not understand that the court contractor has taken steps to sell their property; they do not understand that the property in which they live has been sold publicly; they do not understand that the valuation of the property being sold is much lower than the actual one; they do not understand when the public sale is announced or when the property is sold and they learn about it at the time when the new owners again, through the same judicial contractor, enter their homes and literally remove them from their beds. Yeah, there are cases like that! One of the breakthroughs, of the possibilities is the imperfection in the obligations of Bulgarian citizens to be duly informed that they are being prosecuted, and even more so that executive proceedings are being conducted. The situation is even more difficult and unpleasant for citizens because the private judicial contractor has no interest in informing the citizen that enforcement proceedings have started against him, including enforcement action. I believe that today in Parliament people who have suffered from such execution and the MPs and the media will be able to inform themselves of the spilled human fates as a result of the gaps in legislation. Yes, it is a fact that in 2007 we adopted a whole new Civil Procedure Code, by the way, pressured by the current Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, who had made commitments to the European Commission. The fact is that the situation was different at the time. The state was moving forward and upward. The economy, investment, gross domestic product. Then people would take credit and they could return it. This was, however, the period of 2007. Then, in times of crisis, things turned around. It turned out that people could not pay their debts and what in 2007 seemed good and working, now we all became convinced that it was not good and it was bad for Bulgarian citizens, so we are obliged to make these changes! One of the changes is the summoning. Here a balance must be found between this: the trial must be really fast and not chicane by not receiving subpoenas, messages and excessive formalisation of the call, on the one hand. On the other hand, however, citizens should be informed that proceedings are being initiated against them. Are you not worried, honourable Members, that, including you, as well as dozens of other citizens, that at some point you may find yourself a party to enforcement proceedings, it is over and your property sold out. It can happen to anyone because indeed the Law is imperfect and must be corrected! I do not think that the proposed texts are outside the scope of the draft, because what was proposed by the representatives of the Patriotic Front, especially by Mr. Bajraktarov, and adopted at first reading, treats precisely the possibilities of banks to satisfy their loans from faulty debtors, and calling and notifying the existence of such credit is the first step in this process. The text is within the scope of the adopted bill of the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u53	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. Are there any lines? First line. "The People's Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Manolova! It is clear that the current debate will run along the line of wild populism. I apologize to my colleagues for giving you the opportunity to speak and apologize for another three minutes. I ask myself this: if in 2007 you did not know how Mrs. Kuneva pushed you, who was pressing you last year and did not accept the appropriate amendments? I visited your committee, witnessed all the complaints that were received regarding the summoning. Why, why didn't your committee adopt this text last year?! In addition to all this, I ask myself, seeing how the text is formulated, you categorically criticize art. 47. Well, offer his cancellation! You are not proposing cancellation, but are proposing an even more cumbersome mechanism that will hinder enforcement. Therefore, all of our arguments are essentially in the direction of seeing the implementation fully, not in a piece, so we rely on a comprehensive bill. I'm replicating you here. 117 has nothing to do with calling on the GPC. It's totally out of the question!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? Here you are.. the People's Representative Svilen Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! From now on, we will see a populistic speech on each point. Colleagues, I suppose it has all become clear, except for some on the left, that these texts are unacceptable and should not be seen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u57	What's your line on Mrs. Manolova?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u58	I propose a decision by Mrs. Manolova: to wait for the three-month period of the vote and to submit a new bill. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] There must be good things.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u59	There's one hanging, unattended.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u60	Here the President of the Commission hinted that there is one, so calmly, fellow Members, we will have time to look at these good things that must happen to all the borrowings. From now on, it is said that there will most likely be a new Draft Law of the Council of Ministers, so these things will be resolved in the near future, colleague. The other thing we're gonna talk about right now is just gonna be a waste of time. So I propose and ask Mrs. Manolova to spare us this style of speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u61	Members of the National Assembly shall also be entitled to a certain number of minutes. Any other lines? I won't. Mrs. Manolova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u62	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kirilov, it has become clear from your statement whose side you are on. You are worried that the execution will be difficult, and you are not worried that as a result of this execution the citizens are left without property and property because they have simply not been informed that they are being prosecuted against such a process.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u63	They stayed last year, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u64	There is no lawyer who is not aware that the summoning is being abused, especially by private court contractors. They simply go to the address in question, do not release a message at all, form the corresponding subpoenas and indicate that the citizen has been notified of the relevant enforcement proceedings, making it clear that they will save themselves a mass of squabbles, not informing the debtor at all. I'm sorry, but the argument why we're doing it now and we didn't do it in 2007 is more than absurd.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u65	Last year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u66	Last year, we submitted the exact same bill, which went through a committee and was stopped at the entrance of the plenary, because in the last months of the previous parliament, the bills that were being dealt with entered the hall only with blessing and the parliamentary group of GERB. So GERB are the ones who did not allow these changes to be discussed and adopted in the previous parliament. And GERB will be the ones who will again stand in the way of the changes in the implementation, the arbitrariness of the private judicial contractors, the banks and all other monopoly companies. Yes, I recognise from this tribune that the bill, which was adopted in 2007, in the part of calling, was not perfect. The most normal thing is when a process is seen how it develops, when the abuses are identified, including on the part of private judicial contractors, to correct these errors. Why, my fellow Members, are you taking sides with the monopolists? Stop abuse of what wonderful things the Council of Ministers offers and what will happen in plenary. Here's the Bill of the Council of Ministers. It is declared on the website of the Ministry of Justice for public discussion. Everyone can read it. There is no question of changing the summoning. This Bill of the Council of Ministers is nothing that will solve either the problem of private judicial contractors or the problem of citizens' banks. Just so you have something to wash your hands with today. So the texts are on the table, they're not outside the scope of the bill. Vote according to your conscience for... or
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u67	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Why the proposed amendments to art. 47 of colleague Slavov are similar to the proposals that we have made with colleagues Maya Manolova, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov? Because, colleagues, every production starts with some kind of message to the opposite side. And when you don't have a message and you don't know that any kind of production is taking place, you lose the opportunity to defend your rights. I do not understand your stubbornness to change this text, which does not allow people to defend their rights. I'll give you a paradoxical example. I had a friend who, five years after you bought the apartment, someone else put him on the stand, specifically forbade him, and for a third party claim. Ridiculous! This was only possible because he was not summoned, he was not informed. And why does that happen? Because, colleagues, private court contractors mainly use the courier service. The mailman comes by, doesn't find anyone, sends you a message. Even if you were absent at the moment, if you fail to go within three days, they shape it by not finding the person concerned at the address and you are burning. Literally, you're in the woods. No chance will you defend your property and your rights. I really do not understand the stubbornness that is manifesting here in this Chamber, that we bring a little justice into the process and avoid this possibility of abuse of the way of communication. So please, very please, take a look at the contents. I don't object here politically, I don't give the marks on who's guilty, but look at the content of this rule of law. It gives both sides opportunities to defend their rights and prevents one party from speculating on its situation in the process and deprives the other party of defending its rights. That's what I'm talking about. Therefore, I ask you very much, let us also support the proposal of colleague Slavov, and our proposal, and make them a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u69	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. We are going to vote on the proposals made. First, we vote on the proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev. The Commission does not support them. Please vote. They voted 106 MPs: 40, against 2, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov. The Commission does not support them. Please vote. They voted 107 MPs: 39, against 43, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Revoting please, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u70	Honourable Members, Mr President, I would like a re-vote procedure because obviously some of the MPs have not understood what is being voted on, including colleagues from the Reformation bloc.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u71	That is not the point of the re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u72	Please, Mr. Chairman. Our proposal is the same as that of the Reformation Block, namely that of the Reformation Block is the same as ours, but both are fair enough. I would like to ask and call on you, honourable Members, at a good time each of you may find yourself in a situation where the private judicial officer through his employees has passed through your address, noted with two other employees that he has not found you, and thus a collection procedure has begun against you, which you do not even owe. I'm just warning you that this could happen to you one morning to suspect you in a case you have not been informed about, which happens to dozens of citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. You've had eight minutes to develop this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u74	I had more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u75	Do not underestimate the intelligence of the MPs. Revoting procedure. They voted 102 MPs: 38, against 43, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u76	Proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov: A new § 3 is being created. .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71, para. 2, after the word "supplier', is added as well as when the subject of the case are property rights in the case of claims for existence, for destruction or for the termination of a contract and for the conclusion of a final contract. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u77	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want to explain what the point of this proposal is. Here we are talking about a purely legal and technical addition to the text that is still in effect. In view of the fullness of the hypothesis, in view of the fullness of the cases, we propose something which, by the way, in the debates of the Legal Committee was also supported by representatives of the Supreme Court of Cassation, by other colleagues, as with this addition to the text of art. 72, para. 2 We give greater protection also when it comes to contracts which have rights of property. That's what I'm talking about. We don't change anything here that threatens the monopolies, nothing that interferes with private court contractors. Here we just give a more correct version of the legal norm. So please support this proposal at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u79	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposal made by the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 103 MPs: 32, against 42, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u80	Proposal from the MP Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov: A new §4 is being created: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 78, para. 8 at the end of the text of the provision, after the word "jurisconsult" the expression "supplier" shall be added if evidence of his payment is provided. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u81	Statements? Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u82	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman. This proposal is also linked to the creation of grounds for not being able to chicane with the legal consul fees. What's this about? In the course of a process, when a legal person has a legal counsel, they usually write some huge legal consul fees, which are then not paid and which then the opposing party is ordered to pay them. Neither does the legal counsel receive his remuneration, nor does the opposing party have the opportunity to pay such enormous rewards. So what do we suggest? We offer to award such legal advice, but to present the evidence that it has been paid to the legal counsel, nothing more. Don't you think that's fair? This protects the rights of fellow lawyers who work as legal advisers in different legal entities, including state institutions. I therefore ask you, at least this proposal is legal and technical, it does not have any political or other hustle, it has to do with greater justice, a protection of rights and legal counsels to receive remuneration. You can't just get a lawyer's paycheck. There it is clear that the client pays and then is protected, and here it is that there is some subordinate position of the legal counsel in relation to the person who manages the legal person and often this subordination leads to the failure to pay the huge legal counsel fees that are recorded in the case. Therefore, we want as much as the legal consult's remuneration, present the proof that it has been paid and then have the opportunity to be awarded in relation to the opposing party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u83	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mrs. Maya Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u84	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I do not want to underestimate the intelligence of anyone in this Chamber, honourable Mr. President, as you accused me a moment ago, but in order to make the texts and proposals that we have made more understandable, we obviously need to use a few examples in order for the MPs from GERB to understand at all what is to be voted on. Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, you, who supported my proposals at first reading, for which I hastily thanked you, expect now at least your fellow Members to hear the debate that is taking place from the parliamentary platform. I give you this example: a young woman who made a contract three years ago...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u85	There's no connection to the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u86	Please don't disturb me. Which has concluded a contract for cable television and internet in the amount of 20 BGN. Ends this contract with cable television, pays its dues, as one of the contributions, according to cable TV, remains due. They're taking out an executive list against the woman in question. He's giving the case to a private bailiff. Of course, thanks to omissions in the call that you did not want to correct, the woman was not informed of the ongoing judicial enforcement proceedings and understood that four years ago she owed 20 BGN. from the moment her salary is secured, her wage. We are talking about a young woman who works for the minimum wage and who after three years receives a binding debt message of 20 BGN, which, meanwhile, has increased to 504 BGN. [[GERB lines.]] This is a two-week-old report that the citizen in question brought to me. Imagine a man who works for BGN 360, how can he?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u87	Mrs. Manolova, do you know what text we're discussing?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u88	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u89	For the remuneration of the lawyers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u90	Well, there's a legal fee involved. And what do we have? This is included, including for the amount to increase 20 BGN. the 504 BGN, one of the problems is that in this amount is included legal advice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u91	Who? The individual, the legal counsel or the cable TV? [[Noise and lines.]] MAIA MANOVA: The lawyer who is engaged by the collector company to whom the obligation from cable television has been transferred. [[The President Dimitar Glauchev replicates the speaker.]] Casualties are the daily lives of Bulgarian citizens. No, other Bulgarian citizens will come here shortly with other similar situations, where for a debt of 180 BGN, as a result of the gaps in the legislation and your stubbornness, the debt has become BGN 1173. I have an example of every text of the Law that you intend to reject. I ask you: Is this normal for 20 BGN after going through a private bailiff and being paid in addition to fees and all possible legal fees, the final amount will increase 20 times? Do you think that's fair? Should these opportunities exist in legislation or is this outside the scope of the Law? [[GERB lines.]] Yeah. I will really do my best to make sure that the MPs of the majority voted these texts become known to the Bulgarian citizens, because my proposals to reduce the fees under the Private Judicial Contractors Act cannot be supported at first reading, and then these texts, when specifically scheduled in law, can be rejected. These citizens are hundreds and thousands, tens of thousands who suffer from the abuse of private court contractors, collectors' companies and all companies, monopoly, who, among other things, also label legal fees.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u92	Mrs. Manolova, I remind you that you are deviating from the subject of the debates.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u93	Please don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u94	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u95	If you want to take part in the debate, go down to the Chamber, let Mr. Karakachanov lead.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u96	And you keep an eye on what texts are being discussed. We're not at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u97	And join the discussion. Do not discuss from the parliamentary stand. [[National Representative Maya Manolova speaks with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u98	- What's the line? There are no lines. Statements? There are no speeches. Do you still have the way you're keeping it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u99	Absolutely, yes!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u100	Come in the manner of conducting the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u101	Dear Mr. President, I would like a procedure in the manner of conduct to ask the management of this sitting to monitor strict adherence to the provisions and to the texts that we are discussing. A speaker cannot state and point to the need to award a judicial remuneration, the next speaker, who is also an importer, says: "Absourd! (and has signed the proposal) the legal consultist's remuneration is not due!supposed, and read watering complaints five minutes and ten seconds. Now, there are numerous cases. We've analyzed all the cases, but here the debate is legal, it's not about Hicks' complaint or Ygrek's. And I ask that, in such cases, the floor be taken away, because a specific speaker will constantly abuse his right to make speeches completely unprepared.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u102	I accept, so I made a reminder. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u103	Dear colleagues! Please, Mr. President, if you're going to apply the rules of procedure, put some order in this Chamber. Besides that Mr. Kirilov interrupts me constantly, giving assessments of which proposals are good, who are not, who should be supported, let him do so from the parliamentary platform.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u104	That's what he did.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u105	But stop replicating me while I'm talking from this microphone. In addition, the calls in the hall last of Mr. Velchev, with insulting expressions and inappropriate expressions, I think they should be sanctioned. [[Noise and lines.]] I am strongly opposed to Mr. Velchev calling me from place until he reads the tablet and is informed of any news that has happened here and around the world. We are discussing issues that are important to Bulgarian citizens. If you're not interested, don't listen, come out or do whatever you want, but don't yell at me from the spot. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u106	You couldn't obviously raise the interest of the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u107	The same goes for Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva. [[Strong noise, lines and calls from GERB.]] This isn't a show program.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u108	Do you have a note for anyone else?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u109	The MPs should be interested...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u110	Because in the manner of keeping the remark must be to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u111	Members of the National Assembly should be interested in the problems of their constituents. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u112	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u113	Put some order in there! [[National Representative Maya Manolova speaks away from the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u114	There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate, and I'm putting... [[GERB lines.]] I can't give you a personal explanation. [[Comments and calls from GERB.]] If you were in a speech, yes, but a procedure in the manner of conduct, there is no way I can give you a personal explanation. [[Heckling]] After the vote... [[Radio.]] I put to the vote the proposal of MP Maya Manolova and a group of MPs to create a new § 4, which the Commission does not support. Vote 95 MPs: 30, against 48, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. Procedure in the manner of holding the people representative Krasimir Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u115	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Let's make sure we don't turn the National Assembly into a Mahlen Assembly from Kyustendil County. [[Radio, applause from GERB.]] Who does what show, who reads what, better read on the tablet what people say and what the media say than the anchor points of party power plants. [[Radio and single applause by GERB.]] And to go out here with notes, and to read from the previous day who wrote you what to read as your opinion at the time of the debate, it is stupid and untenable, so do not turn the National Assembly into a Mahlenian Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u116	I will make every effort, but I also ask for your efforts, fellow Members of the National Assembly. Listen to the appeal of the MP Krasimir Velchev and very please, who comes out, to speak on the texts that are being discussed. Please, Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, report the next text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev: At the beginning of the bill, a new paragraph with the following content shall be created: New paragraph. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79 new paragraphs 4 and 5 shall be created with the following text: The sum of all execution charges incurred by the debtor shall not exceed the amount of the obligation but not less than BGN 50. (5) In cases where the debtor himself pays his debt in full within the period of his call for voluntary execution, the proportional fee on the amount paid shall be charged in half. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u118	Statements? Mrs. Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u119	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I think the examples that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u120	Put your card on!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u121	Quiet, please! Mr. Lazarov, I remind you not to call from the premises.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u122	At Mr. Velchev's request, I will show the pre-written points. They are not from a party headquarters, but from Bulgarian citizens. I give the particular example to find out what texts are to be voted on: A long of 180 BGN. Two years ago, as a result of the charging of fees and costs under the enforcement case by the expert of BGN 780, committed to the execution procedure, plus BGN 98. taxi under art. 26 of the private court contractors' fare, plus fees and fees for a lawyer's remuneration committed by a private court contractor...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u123	You just said that!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u124	... eventually became a debt of BGN 1173,69. Dear colleagues, do you think this is normal?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u125	What? Repeating the same thing from the stands?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u126	Why didn't you change it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u127	I give you examples of problems of Bulgarian citizens, which are related to the insane fees that are collected in the judicial execution, which need legislative changes and to which Bulgarian citizens your behaviour is more than insulting. I do not see, Mrs. Atanasova, what is funny in the fate of a citizen who is on a minimum wage, who because of 180 leva. debt must pay BGN 1183. His salary has been secured and the private court contractor has now moved into a sale of his property, lives in a municipal home with two children. They're gonna sell his bed and his old TV! What makes you laugh in this situation?! Aren't you ashamed?! Aren't you ashamed to stand by these problems and don't want to accept any text to change this situation?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u128	Mrs. Manolova, do not address the MPs in this House! You're giving them the right to a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u129	I think that those who are not interested in the proposed changes read the text "It is better to get out of the room and not participate in this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u130	When you were chairman, you chased me, now you can't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. As a matter of fact, this was on the text discussed. - What's the line? I won't. For speech there is the word of the people representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, today indeed the Members of the National Assembly must speak on the ground and must be, among other things, reasoned. Mrs. Manolova, you have mentioned my name several times with occasion and no occasion. The important thing is to say what you want, and what did Prime Minister Oresharski do in this particular case?! The month of July, honourable Members, Prime Minister Oresharski, as President of the Council of Ministers, issued Decree No 215, which has two sentences. Order No 215 has the following text: The debtor does not owe any fees to the judge responsible during the period of voluntary execution. He doesn't owe a cab! This decree I am sorry that I am emotional, but when someone is trying to deceive civil society, one must put a little soul into it...................the private chamber of bailiffs. First instance, she loses the case. A second instance ruling of a 5-member Supreme Court is expected. Naturally, I must mention that this Order is fair, because within the period for voluntary execution the private court contractor has expenses equal to zero leva. Zero leva! Today Mrs. Manolova offers you to load the ordinary citizen for the fact that someone has made zero leva and that during the period of voluntary implementation he has repaid the obligation to pay 50% fees. And you develop here some demagogues that you should be ashamed that you should feel guilty. That's not true! It's not true and it doesn't honor you, mate! Therefore, I propose an editorial amendment in this text, which reads as follows, in the style of Decree No 215 issued by the Council of Ministers, by the government of Plamen Oresharski: [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u133	Are there any lines? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u134	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, I must make clear that the proposal is not mine, but of the colleagues from the Reformation Block that the proposal consists of two parts. The first part relates to the fact that the sum of all fees collected by one debtor in the context of the implementation may not exceed the amount of the obligation. This has nothing to do with the quoted Decree of the Council of Ministers, which, by the way, is extremely fair. I suggest we vote separately. The first proposal made by the Reformation bloc has no obstacle to being supported. In the cases I quoted, it cannot happen to a citizen who owes 180 BGN to be raised to approx. He'll only be able to collect 180 leva. in the framework of enforcement proceedings. I think that's fair. This is a fair proposal from the Reformation bloc, which I expect to be voted on. With regard to the second proposal, I accept your proposal and I will personally support it, but let us say what is happening with this ministerial decree of the cabinet Plamen Oresharski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u135	He fell!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u136	It's stopped by private court contractors. In each case, another private bailiff joins in order to chicanify the trial. So its application is left somewhere in the distant future. So here we offer two possible solutions. One is in the cases of voluntary execution to collect half of the fee, and in the other case I support your proposal, that your staff do not collect any fee. But otherwise, in practice, since Mr. Oresharski's decree was tainted by the court, this regime, which allows debts of BGN 180, is in practice functioning. to be collected in ten times the size.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Any other lines? National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u138	It supports zero leva, and 50%!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Bajraktarov, you are right, but you missed something. The private court enforcement law was passed in 2005 at the Thirty-nineth National Assembly. The 40th National Assembly, where the spokespersons here zealously, as if we were in the market, made no changes to this law, as far as fees are concerned, to relieve citizens. You neglected to mention that 2012. Forty-first National Assembly adopted amendments where they were exempt from fees when the court contractors carried out an inventory. There was another change that cannot be exceeded the ceiling of the determined fees when the charge is proportional to the increasing amounts of claims. This was settled legislatively and the game was completed.. appeal, administrative court. I would like to remind you because you missed out on your earlier speech, why didn't they make it legislative when they were ruling in the Forty-second National Assembly and ending things? Everything else is a matter of populism, beating in the chest, as elections are approaching. They should have changed it legislatively, as we did in the Forty-First National Assembly. You missed this because this is really in the direction of protecting citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u140	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Any other lines? There's no third line. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my ass, I'll address Mr. Lazarov first. Mr. Lazarov, you're absolutely right! You're absolutely right about what you said. My hole to you will only be in the following direction. Believe me, the citizens are tired of someone saying, 'Why didn't your government do it?' 'Cause they are equally affected, no matter which government did it or didn't do it. Otherwise, for everything you've said, you're 100% right. I can fill in some other interesting details. For example, in 2007, a large part of the Civil Procedure Code was adopted by explaining that these are requirements of the European Commission, which was not at all true. That is why today I started my brief first speech showing the letters from the European Commission in order to know that it never required the adoption of such texts. As far as Mrs. Manolova is concerned. Dear Mrs. Manolova, the fairest thing is, and I repeat, everyone knows, everyone who has dealt with this matter knows that within the period of voluntary execution, a private judicial contractor does not incur any costs. Yes, you're right that under the blaming decree, and I'm asking myself why you should have made such decrees when it could have been purely and simply changed the law. Indeed, in order for this justice to be done today, I call on the Members of the National Assembly to accept and vote on this amendment because it is the just one. Colleagues, believe me, no one is insured by this thing even if you don't owe money. Just recently, the NRA had made a mistake regarding me and imposed taxes on me in the order of several hundred levs. I'm getting a letter saying I have to pay those taxes. There's another example of you getting a letter... That's where we're headed to a state bailiff. During the period of voluntary execution, if you pay the amounts due, be it taxes, or fines, you don't owe a single penny of the court's misdemeanor. I ask: why should the debtor in one case be the debtor, or was not the debtor not to pay any fees, and in the other case to pay half a fee, not more than the amount, and I don't know what. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. Justice is that within the period of voluntary execution the debtor owes nothing because there is no cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. There is a proposal from the MP Maya Manolova for a separate vote on para. 4 and 5. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Maya Manolova for a split vote on para. 4 and 5 in the proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev. They voted 104 MPs: 47, against 12, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev, which the Commission does not support. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] The proposal made by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov can be very fair, but it is not editorial. It's being done by the order, and that's why I'm not putting it to the vote. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] In the Rules of Procedure is written an editorial proposal and not a fair one. [[Heckling]] Please vote. They voted 100 MPs: 41, against 4, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u143	Mr President, honourable Members, I think that much of my fellow Members have not understood the importance of this proposal and the effect it will have.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u144	It's not about whether they found out or not, it's about whether they were able to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u145	That's right. For this reason, perhaps some of them failed to vote because they were thinking about what they should do at this important time. I suggest re-voting this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u146	Revoting procedure. They voted 113 MPs: 50 against 3, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will read two proposals as both are relevant for art. 104. A proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev at the beginning of the bill is created a new paragraph with the following content: "New paragraph: In art. 104 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new t. is created. 6: 6. The claims, irrespective of their price, joined in a single application with an action brought against a district court if they are subject to consideration under the same procedure. 2. Previously on "T." 6 is going to be t. 7. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov is created a new § 5: .................................................................................. The following changes shall be made in 1. A new t. is created. 6: It's six. The claims, irrespective of their price, joined in an action brought by a court of law, if they are to be examined in accordance with the same procedure. Previously on "T." 6 is going to be t. 7. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u148	They're not only identical, they're exactly the same proposals. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u149	Honourable President, honourable Members, the proposals made concern the defendants of the district court. I also welcome the identical proposal made by my colleagues from the Reformation bloc and I hope that everyone in this House will support it. It gives an opportunity to speed up the process and save some of the costs of the parties. It is quite resonantly done here and will practically legitimize something that is practiced in the district courts, namely the association of claims. I hope that these colleagues here who practice and have an idea of what it is about to explain to their colleagues and convince them. [[Replying from the hall.]] Thanks for the note from the hall. This thing is extremely important and I hope that there will be intelligence in the voters and will be supported because mainly the criticisms we have from the Bulgarian citizens and the European Commission regarding the speed of the trial, and this proposal will push us in this direction to have less criticism. Moreover, this proposal is also supported by the judges' guild. At first reading it was also supported by the Legal Commission, so I see no reason to vote for it, as Bulgarian citizens expect a little more productivity from us so that they can feel satisfied with the speed of the process and the decisions they expect to take from the Bulgarian courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, this is a proposal that may really seem a little specialized at first glance to colleagues-not lawyers when reading it, but I have to tell you that it is trying to solve a problem for which many of the Bulgarian citizens, do they need to solve their problems through the judiciary, often say: The reason is that when two or more claims are filed with one application, which are in practice related to the same relationships, but one or more of them are indicted in another instance, that is, if the application is brought to a district court, and part of the claims are indicted to a district court, the courts are currently dividing them, sending one to the district court, and the others remain in the district and practically the unhappy plaintiff has to prove the same thing twice before two separate courts. You can imagine what tension and what problem this is for him. Not to mention that often in the course of proving and the expertise being done and so on, they contradict each other, which is absurd. What is often happening, including I've had cases like this in practice, a case takes five, six, seven years or more. Finally, one instance stops him from waiting for the other because he can't finish it without her decision and people say: "There is no justice in this country and often it is really about decisions, about judgment claims, for example, against unscrupulous builders in the boom of construction, who assumed that he transferred all the property from one company to another company. They said, "The first one's bankrupt, there's nothing." People are trying to convict them, get their practically paid money back on preliminary contracts and so on for years. In the end, the other firm is gone, and the man, unfortunately, remains lied to. Indeed, this is something that will also ease the courts, as at least the load will not be double. I think we can support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev, as well as the proposal of Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov, which are the same. The Commission does not support them. Vote 97 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted. [[Applause from BSP LB and RB.]] Proceed, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u153	A proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev at the beginning of the bill is created a new paragraph with the following content: New paragraph. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 210, para. The second sentence shall be created: the division of claims relating to the subject-matter of the case shall not be allowed, unless they are subject to consideration by the order of different proceedings. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u154	Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u155	Mr. Chairman, if I may read one more proposal under art. 210, which was done by the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov? A new § 6 is being created. ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 210, para. The second sentence shall be created: the division of claims relating to the subject-matter of the case shall not be allowed, unless they are subject to consideration by the order of different proceedings. The Commission does not support the proposal. The two texts are completely identical.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u156	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As one of the contributors to this text, I would like to express to you my opinion on why we have made this proposal. As the same text has been proposed by other colleagues, I hope that we have approached professionally and not politically. Our idea is the same as it was in previous proposals under art. 104. The aim is to speed up the process, to some extent to save money from the parties to the division of cases which have the same subject matter of the case. The order of Art. 210 in its al. 2 in fact, a continuation of the proposed text is continuing and the division of the claims relating to the subject-matter of the case is not allowed and if they are not subject to examination under different judicial rules. In order not to be naked, I will give you an example that will illustrate practically what it is about. If an action is brought before a district court for the conclusion of a final contract for the sale of one property whose value is more than 10 thousand. lv. and is also subject to consideration before a district court and in the same action has been brought a rebuttal one for the transfer of possession, respectively the district court has the right to divide these two claims. The separation of claims will inevitably lead to aggravation of the process itself, as it will have to wait for the decision of the district court before the other action is dealt with. By the way, in some courts this is also accepted as practice and these two claims do not separate. We actually oblige the district court to examine the claims in the same proceedings. We consider this to be extremely rational and, if you consider it so, I would ask you to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Karagyozov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Petar Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, firstly, to thank you for your support under the previous paragraph. I must make it clear that once we have accepted it, it is also appropriate to accept this, as otherwise it will become a virtual contradiction in the Code. So I ask that you also support this proposal with my colleague Delchev, but I see that it is almost identical to my colleague Manolova and other MPs. Indeed, so that there is no contradiction and that things correspond to each other, please also support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposals made by the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev, as well as the proposals of the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Filip Popov and Kircho Karagyov. Please vote. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We finally got to § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u162	Statements? I won't. We are voting on § 1 by importer, which will receive a renumbering from the Financial Texts (Final Texts) in relation to the proposals adopted for new paragraphs. So in order not to confuse the numbering, we are going on the report, Mr. Kirilov, and in the end the colleagues from the Financial Texts will renumber and correct the order of the paragraphs. There are 86 MPs voting: 86, no abstentions and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u163	Under paragraph 2, there is a proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the Not subject to a cassation appeal: 1. Judgments in callous cases with a price of the claim up to 5000 BGN. For civil cases and up to BGN 20 000 For commercial cases, with the exception of property claims and other property rights decisions and related claims which are relevant to the property claim; 2. decisions on advocacy cases in claims for alimony, marital claims, claims under art. 322, para. 2 of this Code, proceedings under art. 59, para. 7, Art.123, para. 2, Art. 126, para. Art. 2, Art. 127, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 127a, Art. Art. 128, Art. 130, para. 3 of the Family Code, claims under art. 11, para. 2 of the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land and under art. 13, para. 2 of the Law on the Restoration of Property of Forests and Land of the Forest Fund, procedures for the allocation of the use of joint property under art. 32, para. 2 of the Property Act, claims under art. 40 of the Law on the Management of Floor Property, applications for change of name under art. 19th para. 1 of the Law on Civil Registration and Claims under art. 17, para. 1 of the Law on the Settlement of Collective Labour Disputes; 3. decisions in appeal cases in labour disputes, except decisions on claims under art. 344, para. 1, t. 1, 2 and 3 of the Labour Code and on claims for remuneration and benefits under the employment contract with a price of the claim of more than 5000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u164	Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u165	Honourable Members, these are some of the texts proposed by judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation, with a clear intention of being discharged from judicial activity, so that this court can deal more with interpretation decisions, which, of course, is both a power and a commitment of the supreme courts. However, in the process of discussing these texts, I would like to inform the House that there has been a very serious reaction from civil organisations, from those for the protection of mothers, children, disadvantaged persons who claim that the interests of children will thus be harmed by barring the way for a tri-instantial discussion of family and marital cases. I must inform you of this position that has led me and I suppose some of my colleagues to abstain from these texts. It is really important to look for a balance of interests and for how the judiciary operates, how the courts are loaded, but, on the other hand, to hear citizens, when they definitely disagree with our legislative initiatives which they believe are damaging their interests, including their access to justice, which they understand as such in three courts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u166	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote § 2 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: 81, against 3, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u167	Madam President, allow me to present two proposals that are new for a new paragraph. They're referring to art. 303, para. 1. The first proposal is from the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev: A new paragraph 2a shall be created with the following content: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 303, para. 1 is created new t. 8 containing the following content: It's 8 o'clock. A different interpretation of a law applied in the course of the judgment of the case has been adopted by an interpretive decision or an interpretive decree. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov: Paragraph 2a shall be created: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 303, para. 1 points 8 and 9 are created. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 8. to ten years after the entry into force of the decision, the law according to which the case was decided has been declared unconstitutional; c. 9. Up to ten years after the entry into force of the decision, an interpretation of the law, other than that on which the decision is based, has been adopted by an interpretive decision. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u168	I'm opening the debate. Members of parliament who wish to take opinions on it? Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u169	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to clarify our proposals which are similar to those of our colleagues in the Reformation bloc and which I stress are in the direction of establishing the rule of law and its uniform application. Dear colleagues, we are all about this, we want the Law to have a single application, to apply to all cases, and when the Law has been applied incorrectly, to have the basis for a cassation appeal so that the wrong decision can be corrected. After all, we make the rules and we have to allow them to apply equally. Where the Constitutional Court or the Supreme Court of Cassation has seen that there is a different practice and that the Law is not interpreted as it should be interpreted according to the spirit of the Constitution, and they have pronounced their own acts, we must allow the wrong decisions that have been adopted to be corrected in the spirit of interpretation decisions and decrees. That's what I'm talking about. This will establish the legal order and uniform application of the Law. Therefore, I ask you, let us all unanimously adopt these texts and not put any other passions and emotions into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u170	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposals of the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev. The Commission does not support these proposals. They voted 106 MPs: 32, against 22, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 98 MPs: 24, against 36, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u171	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm proposing a re-vote, and I'm asking you to look into the meaning of what's being proposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u172	You're making a statement on the ground. When revoting, you say that you have not had the opportunity to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u173	We didn't have a chance, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u174	You did, because as much of your group as you're here, that's how much the voice read the system.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u175	Let it be known that we vote for the legal order, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u176	Thank you. It's a re-vote. They voted 98 MPs: 26, against 45, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u177	Dear Madam President, two proposals for the creation of a new paragraph concerning the same provision of art. 305. The first proposal is of the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev: A new paragraph 2b shall be created with the following content: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 305, para. 1 is created a new t. 6 with the following content; It's six. in the cases referred to in Article 1 (1), point (a) is replaced by the following: 303, para. 1, t. 9 but not later than 5 years after the entry into force of the decision to which the annulment is sought. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov: Paragraph 2b shall be created: ???? 2b.???????????? 2b???????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 305, para. 1 is created t. 6 It's six. the promulgation in the Official Journal of the Court of Justice of the Constitutional Court of Justice in the cases referred to in art. 303, para. 1, t. 8; 7. issuing of the interpretive decision in the cases referred to in art. 303, para. 1, t. 9. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u178	Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u179	My fellow Members, Madam President, I have been waiting for Mr. Bajraktarov to speak because the main text is his. I will begin my speech by saying that I and BSP's parliamentary group left Bulgaria will support the text proposed by Mr. Bajraktarov, namely to take away the possibility of banks in a quick procedure without the involvement of the debtor, to provide executive sheets for claims by banks. The fact is that these texts are opportunities for numerous, tens, hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands of abuses by...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u180	We're at 305 right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u181	Didn't you put it to the vote... [[Reply from rapporteur Daniel Kirilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u182	Well, it is when your colleagues distract you, Mrs. Manolova, and they don't give you the opportunity to monitor the report. In this regard, I'll give you a chance in a moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u183	I am following the report, but since the President and I have prepared two different reports, I am clearly following the first one that was prepared by the Legal Committee. I beg your pardon. I'll speak in a little bit. 417.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u184	Under art. 305 are there any speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 100 MPs: 27, against 17, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Manolova, Georgiev, Ivanov, Popov and Karagyov. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 103 MPs: 29, Against 49, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u185	There is a proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Filip Popov and Kircho Karagyov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 18, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The application shall be submitted to the regional court at the permanent address or at the registered office of the debtor who shall, within three days, carry out an official inspection of the local defendant. If the court considers that the case is not on trial, it shall send it to the proper court. 2. In para. 2 in the text before t. 1 the words "three-day term" shall be replaced by the term under para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's,
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u186	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Bayraktarov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support the proposed changes by Mrs Maya Manolova in art. 411. They're extremely reasonable. I will take advantage, among other things, of calling on my fellow Members on the left to gather, because in a moment's time, there will be a vote on art. 417. I hope that today you will prove that you are a social party and there will be 38 MPs from BSP left Bulgaria. I also hope that the MPs of the Party of Ataka do not stand in voting on Articles 417 and 411 in their room and will also be at their jobs to vote in favour of the Bulgarian people. I also hope that the ABB MPs, who are 11 in number, will also be in full stock. With this article. 411 and the next change of art. 417 is about supreme justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u188	Aren't you going to summon your group, Mr. Bayraktarov? You're half of it, and I'm counting from here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u189	There are eighteen of us, Madam President. I have a slight remark to you that the Patriotic Front is currently in full formation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u190	Which is absolutely not true, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Laughter, excitement and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u191	Which is absolutely true. You can count it! [[Extending laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u192	There were more than 14 of you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u193	There are eighteen of them, count them!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u194	Are there any lines to Mr. Bayraktarov? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u195	Dear colleagues, we will also support the text that we have proposed. It is about improving the rules for establishing local defendants. And I will say two sentences in connection with the call made by Mr. Bayraktarov. I would even ask you, Madam President, after the vote on this text, to give the rest, which will start in five minutes anyway. After the discussion of art. 411 and the proposals to it I will ask before the vote a name check so that all MPs, including ours and the other parliamentary groups, can gather in plenary. I say this early enough to have the opportunity to inform the MPs. I have no desire to interrupt today's plenary session. Just to be correct, I'll inform you in advance. So that everyone can come to the Chamber, they will have time for this. I hope they do, given the forthcoming texts relating to the restriction of the monopoly not only of banks but also of all other monopoly companies.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u196	It is correct to apologize to the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. The group is in full formation. [[(Loud applause and cheering) (Bravo!)]] I didn't see the colleagues sitting on this side because of a change in their place where I usually follow them. They're on the aisle. We have news of a full composition of a parliamentary group. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Any lines to Mrs. Manolova? I won't. Do we now have the name check, Mrs. Manolova, before the vote? [[Comments from GERB: "Now, now! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u197	Not now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u198	A roll call shall be requested with a view to an upcoming vote. There is no way to state that after five texts you will want a name check. [[Noise and lines.]] You don't want a name check at all? I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u199	I will ask after the vote on this text. [[The National Representative Dimitar Lazarov wants the floor for procedure.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u200	Wait a minute, before the procedure, there are debates going on. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. Procedure Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u201	Dear Madam President, I ask you to carry out a roll call check prior to this vote. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u202	Colleagues, the inspection will take place after the break, as now is the opening of an exhibition dedicated to 800 years since the signing of Magna Charter. The exhibition will be found in the north lobby. The exhibition is organized by the British Embassy in Sofia and presents the history and response of one of the most significant legal documents. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. Holiday till 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u203	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Are there any other speeches on the texts that were the subject of debate? I won't. We're closing the debate. Before going to the vote there was a request for a name check requested by two MPs. We're starting a roll call: Aidoan Mutalib Ali-here. Ayhan Ahmed Etem is absent. Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Hristov Metodiev- absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Ana Georgieva Barakova- here Angel Petrov Naydenov- here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev- here Antony Antonyev Trenchev- absent Atanas Zafirov- Zafirov is absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Atanasov- absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov- here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov- here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Boyka Grozeva Marinska- here Boris Borisov Stanimirov- absent Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov- here Borislav Mihailov Borisov- absent Borislav Rajchov Milanov- here Borislav Sabinov Iglev- absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan-here. Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov- absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov- here Valentin Stefanov Vasilev- absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- absent Vasil Milanov Antonov- here Velizar Penkov Enchev- here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov- here Willy Mladenov Lilkov- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Volen Nikolov Siderov- absent Vyara Mihaylova Tzerovska- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Simeonova Georgieva- here Georg Danylov Georgiev- absent Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev- absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov- here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov- here Georgi Nikolov Nedev- here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev- here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov- here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov- here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen here. Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov- here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov-- here. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova- here Diana Ivanova Yordanova- absent Dimitar Angelov Gorov- here Dimitar Andreev Delchev- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- absent Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov- here Dimitar Krumov Tanev- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- absent Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov- absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev-here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev here Dobrin Nenov Danev- here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov- here Doncho Spasov Baxanov- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa- absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Emil Dimitrov Reinov- here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin-here Erdingh Ismail Hajrula-here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov- here Zdravko Dimitrov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov- absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov- absent Ivan Penkov Ivanov- here Ivan Slavov Ivanov- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov- here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov- here Ilian Sashov Todorov- here Iliya Yankov Iliev- here Irena Ivanova Kotseva- here Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova- here Kamen Kostov Kostadinov- here Katya Nikolaeva Popova- here Cyril Andonov Kotev- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin is absent. Cyril Dobrev Dobrev- here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev- absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev- here Kircho Georgiev Karagyozov- here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Korman Yakubov Ismailov- here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova- absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov- here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov- absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- absent Krasimir Petrov Petrov- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka- here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov- absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov- here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan is absent. Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva- here Mariana Georgieva Todorova- here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov- absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova- here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Method Borisov Andreev- here Mehmet Umer Ataman here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Mithat Sabri Metin here Mikhail Raykov Mikov- absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov- here Musa Cemal Palev here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- here. Mustafa Fahri Ahmed here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski- absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev- here Nevin Halil Hassan-- here. Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Neno Hristov Vlaikov- absent Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski- here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Petar Vladislavov Slavov- absent Petar Georgiev Kadiev- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Petar Ivanov Petrov- here Petar Kostadinov Petrov- here Petar Pandushev Chobanov- here Peter Hristov Bekov- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova- here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova- here Radan Milenov Kanev- absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Petrov Petrov- here Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Rumen Dinev Zhelev- absent Rumen Ivanov - absent Rumen Marinov Yonchev- absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev- absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov- here Svilen Filipov Ivanov- absent Semir Hussain Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova- absent Slavi Penchev Binev- here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- here Snezana Georgieva Dukova- here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov- here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov- here Stefan Ivanov Dedev- here Stefan Lambov Danailov- here Stephanie Mihneva Mihaylova- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova- here Tasko Mihailov Ermenkov- here Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev- here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova- here Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid here. Hassan Ahmed Ademov- here Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Georgiev Todorov- here Hüseyin Hassan Hafuzov- here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov- here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov- absent Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska- here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev- here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev- absent Chetin Hussein Kazak- here Shabanali Ahmed Durmush-here Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- absent Yavor Iliev Haytov- absent Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov- here Ianko Alexandrov Jankov- here Additional list: Dimitar Lazarov, Nayden Zelenogorski, Boris Stanimirov, Krasimir Velchev, Valentin Pavlov, Atanas Atanasov, Krasimir Bogdanov, Krasimir Karakachanov, Lutvi Mestan and Valeri Simeonov. There's a quorum, and we can move on. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov. The Commission supports the proposal. Please vote. [[Noise and lines.]] The proposal is supported by the Commission. Did everyone get a vote? Vote 139 MPs: 127, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. For procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u204	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, please put to the vote an extension of the period between the first and second reading of the Customs Act by seven days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u205	A reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Vladislav Nikolov to extend the period between the first and second reading of the Customs Act by seven days. They voted 130 MPs: 115, against 1, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 with the corresponding text, which includes the proposal which we voted on a short time ago by Mrs. Maya Manolova and a group of MPs, as well as the proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under art. 80, para. 4 t. 2. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 with the corresponding text on the Commission report. Vote 113 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 with its corresponding content per report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u206	According to § 3 a proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev: The text of the importer of § 3 is amended as follows: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117 the following 1. Point 2 acquires the following type: "2." a document establishing claims on public offices or municipalities. 2. Point 8 before the word "act' shall put the words "entered into force'. 3. A new point 10 shall be inserted with the following content: ..10. a document or extract from accounting books establishing claims on banks. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Iskren Veselinov the proposal has been made. Proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov: "Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions have been made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the Union is added after the word "inceptions" and the words "banks" are deleted; 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 and the expression "agreement" or other contract, with a notary certification of the signatures and the comma before it, are dropped, and the pronoun "y" is replaced by "him." 3. A t is created. 10 and so on. 11: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 10. a document or extract from books establishing claims on banks; I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 11. Agreement or other contract with notary certification of the signatures concerning the obligations contained therein for payment of money or other substitutable items, as well as the obligations for the transmission of certain items. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova: "Paragraph 3 to Inquiry." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 3 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u207	Statements? National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will make one correction for the transcript, as the chair of the Legal Committee in point. 1 made an error................................................................................................. 417 OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1. I'm saying this to keep the transcript accurate. Dear colleagues, at the moment we are likely to witness political imbeciles [[noise and lines in the hall]] I didn't mean to insult anyone. I'll explain why. I'm the importer of the text. This text is unanimously adopted by the Chamber of the National Assembly in its first vote. Unanimous! There is no change in the text in any letter. Come on, now explain to me with what motives this same Legal Commission, which also unanimously adopted this bill of mine, at one point rejects it?! With what motive?! Colleagues, I can only guess what the motives are.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u209	Most likely, in the Commission meeting, the reasons are set out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u210	There's no motive. So I ask, " With what motives? '! I'm looking to the left because on the left, you're slowing down.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u211	Don't engage in dialogue!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u212	That's why I'm looking forward to it. [[Laughter]] Colleagues, what are the possible motives? Everyone here knows that art. 417 is the famous among the people a dark member who ruined the lives and fates of hundreds of thousands of honest and honest Bulgarian citizens, thousands of small and medium-sized Bulgarian companies and left thousands of people unemployed. The same article. 417 currently ruins the lives of thousands of Bulgarian workers to whom incorrect employers owe them between 130 and 150 million. lv. Only the banks don't care! They do not care that someone owes the Bulgarian workers hundreds of millions of levs. Naturally, according to the same logic, the DPS as expert mediators also rejected the bill for changing the Law on guaranteeing the claims of Bulgarian workers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u213	Focus.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u214	I've focused very well. Don't interrupt me, please. So, colleagues, today you can wash your shame by supporting the text of the importer, with which to put an end to the arbitrariness of the banking lobby, the arbitrariness of the monopolists and the justice that the Bulgarian people want! I call on colleagues from the left, colleagues from the Ataka, colleagues from the ABB, colleagues from the Bulgarian Democratic Center, colleagues from GERB, colleagues from the Reformation Bloc to vote together with the Patriotic Front, the text of the applicant to drop the dark texts of art. 417. Thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u215	- What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u216	Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, you are right in your fair anger to ask why, after your bill was unanimously adopted in plenary at the first vote, then unanimously by the majority was rejected at the meeting of the Legal Committee and will most likely be rejected in the plenary. You're right in your righteous anger. That is why you are right in searching for possible motives for this sharp change in the behaviour of the parliamentary group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u217	Where's the line here?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u218	I'm waiting to hear what he's wrong with since you wanted a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u219	You are not accurate in listing the possible motives which diametrically changed the behaviour of the parliamentarians from GERB, by missing the invasion of private judicial contractors and of the heads of banks in the last two months in parliament, including in GERB's parliamentary rooms, and the possible proposals that the latter made to GERB's parliamentary group. I have no other explanation because motives against your proposal were not put forward. So since there are no rational motives that can be taken to the table, we're looking for motives that have been proposed under the table. Otherwise, the behaviour of the MPs from GERB is inexplicable. I think that's the only possible explanation. In a moment, in a separate speech, I will explain what our arguments were to offer a softer version of proposals from you, but I say that we will support you fully, as we supported you at first reading. We state what our motives are to stop banks from being indicted by debtors. I also expect GERB to explain what their official motives are, if any, to reject this proposal. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Second line. "The People's Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, I am taking a line because I cannot help defending the Legal Commission against the false allegations and manipulation you are trying to achieve in this meeting in this debate. At the very first reading in the Legal Committee, we made detailed arguments against your proposal to change the three points in art. 417 and we explained in detail our arguments why even if you fight against banks, you should not identify with banks the state and municipalities. One thing is banks, another is to remove from this method the collection of municipal and state claims. For the manipulation and suggestion of your fight with banks, I will take the floor separately to explain why this method does not solve either radically or substantially or effectively the problem of debt and enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u222	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Here's a third line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u223	Honourable President, honourable Members, I will now be taking up the Rules of Procedure. Article 77, para. In the first vote, the bill is discussed in general and in full. I hope this answers the question of why the first vote is supported, and then the second vote, when looking at the substance, there is already some change in the position of the President of the Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u224	That was to Mr. Bayraktarov, wasn't it? Mr. Bajraktarov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First I'll address the lady, Mrs. Manolova. Mrs. Manolova, you're probably right about what you're saying, but didn't the bankers carry the briefcases? Did the bankers carry the briefcases? [[Noise and shout from GERB: "Eeeee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u226	You're overreacting!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u227	Don't call! The patriotic front has no coalition partners. Now to Mr. Kirilov. Dear Mr. Kirilov, first of all, you lied I have not made a proposal to change three points, but I have made a proposal to change four points once. The second time, do not mention the untruths of this tribune and do not identify the state with the banks. Any administrative act which would be by a municipality or by a State must be challenged by a judicial procedure. It is a constitutional right, it is a European law. When we introduced this bill from the Patriotic Front, the main part was that all people in this country must be equal and must have the right to a fair trial. 417, impossible. Thirdly, in no way did you give reasons from this tribune that you rejected this text in the Legal Committee. All I'm saying is that the only truth you've said is that not the entire Legal Committee has rejected this text. This text has gone by one vote more, as far as I can tell. In other words, the majority of colleagues from the Commission voted in favour of the text of the importer. That once again you enter an acquittal regime makes me think that once again you will either drink the coffee, or you will make some kind of kiss which, I believe, reasonable colleagues from GERB will not allow it to happen today. I turn to colleagues from GERB: if yesterday five people supported justice, if we had a report on Roma integration of 626 pages, I am sure that there would be not five colleagues from GERB, but at least 25 voted in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u228	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Any other speeches? Mrs. Maya Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u229	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, it is normal to debate on the famous art. 417 to be more heated because hundreds of Bulgarian citizens protested for months precisely this text. The protests have not stopped, the tension continues because the abuse of people through the abuse of this text continues. It's really inexplicable, I'm not going to use the word "insane behavior," I'm going to use a softer one. It is not normal at first reading in full and in general accepting, voting for one text, just one text, one single text and at second reading anymore, looking at it in detail, rejecting it. This makes the whole parliamentary procedure meaningless at all. I also think it is rather schizophrenic and not hypocritical behaviour when you say that the parliamentary group supports a bill, as was the case with the support of Mr. Tsvetanov and the GERB Parliamentary Group of my Private Judicial Contract, supported entirely in principle by the first vote and then the two concrete proposals, because it is from two texts, without changes are rejected at the second reading of this Bill. I think even the word "schizophrenia" is very harmless in terms of what it's all about. It is about the privilege of banks only on an extract from their accounting books to supply an executive sheet against a debtor and then to collect what they believe is due to them in a production in which the debtor has no levers to defend himself. There are dozens of cases, hundreds, thousands. There's no way in this room there's a MP who hasn't been turned on by people with their fates spilled. They are looking for amounts that they have already paid, accrued amounts, wrongly calculated interest, in which conditions an obligation of 40 thousand becomes one of 80 thousand; property is sold, people remain on the street and continue to be debtors, and so forever. It is a huge expectation that the citizens will really make changes to the Civil Procedure Code. The text we adopted in 2007 is not a good one. He needs to be corrected. One solution, more radically proposed by the Patriotic Front and Mr. Bajraktarov, was adopted by the MPs from GERB and fully supported by the first vote. We have also given a second option, which is softer, which would ensure more equal protection and the interests of the banks, which must collect the sums due, but on the other hand... to enable debtors to defend themselves in cases where banks are indecent on their backs. Our proposal is as follows: when the bank asks the court to issue an executive list of amounts which it believes its creditor owes it, in cases where the debtor considers that the amount is indicated that the interest rates are not calculated correctly, that the fees are increased, it may object. Then the case goes to be dealt with in general order in a simple court procedure. In our proposal, we leave it to the debtor to assess whether he agrees with the bank and would save himself the costs in a legal proceedings by agreeing to pay what he owes and what he is looking for, or in cases where he believes he is wronged and the amounts he has been looking for, to be able to defend himself by means of expertise, by means of experts, by analyzing and submitting documents by the banks in a normal, regular judicial procedure. We think there's nothing dangerous about our text. As the majority supported the text of Mr. Bajraktarov at first reading and according to us, according to GERB's behaviour he has more chances to pass, we will also support him. Let us if you are supporters of the radical solution to this issue ultimately happen in plenary. Understand, there is no escape from the anger of the people if the hopes and expectations that there will be changes in the arbitrariness of the banks are not realized in practice. There's just no way to get away with this! There'll be tension, there'll be discontent. Keep that in mind when you vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? Mr. Bayraktarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u231	I'll be very brief. Mrs. Manolova, the consideration of this text has already been preceded by a serious protest that took place yesterday. There was a pretty serious protest yesterday!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u232	Any other lines? Mrs. Manolova, would you like to take advantage of the backrest after this kind of line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u233	The fact is that protests do not stop and they will continue because people have a problem. [[Replications from the MPs Tsveta Karayancheva and Daniela Daritkova.]] The boredom written on your face is disrespectful to Bulgarian citizens. We're discussing a matter here...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u234	Are you talking about Mr. Bayraktarov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u235	No, for the MPs from GERB from the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u236	No, because Mr. Bayraktarov made a line for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u237	You guys have been talking the same thing all day.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u238	Dear colleagues, we expect from you, Mrs. Daritkova, Mrs. Karayancheva, who resent that we are wasting your time with this debate, to state your position.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u239	Your line is to Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u240	Ask why you will vote against. Call it in! Here, if you want a personal explanation, if you want a statement, if you want a line. Let one of GERB's parliamentary group come out and say why you will vote against. [[(Reply and shout.) A line from the MP Tsveta Karayancheva.)]] Stand up and tell me from the stands, don't suffocate from place. This is where we speak in plenary. Come on, Mrs. Karayancheva, come out and say, show courage, explain why you will vote against.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u241	Mrs. Manolova, you are making the duplicate of the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov reply to a reply! [[(Noise, lines, and shouts.) People's representative Tsveta Karayancheva wants the floor for procedure.)]] Procedure, but there's a record of a statement. Here you are, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u242	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I am doing this procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u243	What is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u244	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u245	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u246	I have some substantial suggestions for you, Mr. Chairman, please listen to them. First, please, when the colleagues who have spoken for a long and irrigation time, I will not tell them the names that we will listen to them much more, to reduce the sound in the room. That means all the time. Secondly, prolonging the time when they speak. That means all the time. Thirdly, do not allow other MPs, because they are self-sufficient for themselves and for the House. That means all the time. To force all MPs to vote as colleagues call from the House. Fourth, tell them that in the Bulgarian language besides insulting hyperboles there are simple, simple words that are not offensive and which the MPs in the Chamber will understand. Last, tell them that I know that the elections are coming and I know that those 50% that are coming are very harassing colleagues in this House. I hope you'll understand what I'm talking about. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. Nothing you've offered me can do, because it's not described in the Rules, but the opposite. As for the volume, there was another chairman who spoke about the volume. I can't do that either. [[Noise and glad tidings in GERB.]] Next statement Mr. Daniel Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u248	Mr. President, honourable Members, and without the insistent invitations, we would have laid out a detailed position on the problem that we are already discussing repeatedly at the initiative of the legislative proposal that the Patriotic Front has made. Before I begin on the ground, I would say that some of the speakers cannot offend me because the suggestion and the attacks they make are deeply untrue and absolutely unfounded. Why the proposal with regard to art. 417 t. 2 doesn't solve the case with debtors? Pretend we're removing it. We assume that there is no such provision. How will the relationship between the creditors develop the banks that are lending and the possible debtors? The one who gives the money, he requires the form. Even if the accounting statement is removed, the banks will request the issuance of another document or other form that will ease the debt collection. For the record, I'm making a quick reference: you can see this. 9 of the same provision. In other words, the debtor who is willing and willing to do anything, going to ask for credit, will be told: "Yes, we can't ask for a warrant from accounts now, but write a record order. How many decades the banks... They're still collecting warrant records when they're crediting. If we exclude the recording of a warrant, the bank will say, "I want a notary certification of the loan agreement." This is also a direct executive basis, only the notary certification costs money and the notary fee is based on the certified interest. Why burden the debtor with the cost of the notary fee in question? There is a claim, and it, you see, in terms of state and municipalities, because here the parody goes to extremes. Here we also show mistrust of the state and the municipalities and say: "You can directly issue an order for execution. Yes, an enforcement order can be issued, but that does not mean that the act of the State or of the municipality has become indisputable and that the judicial defence is absent. Of course, the appeal will continue in normal order, and if the act falls, then the enforcement will fall. Who's lying to who? One of his colleagues said: "Four are the points. Yes, four, and the bill of honor, because he had studied accounting in Moscow, did not know what the account meant. Read the laws! The audit act shall be made following a financial revision in a strictly legislative order. We don't trust this production, either? Where will this populistic harmony lead to belied by debtors? Where's it gonna lead?! We have repeatedly discussed in the Legal Committee the possible compromise. It will lead debtors to be misled to issue an objection to a debt which they are indisputable, and they do not argue that they owe, but only to delay, and only to delay the enforcement, they will issue an objection. And what happens then, I ask the proposers? What's going on? A claim is filed, 4% state fee is paid, legal proceedings are initiated, lawyers are hired. Why do we have to load the debtor with a bunch of more fees and expenses?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u249	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. The People's Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, since I understand that you are extremely valuable in accounting, there is an account 442 in the National Account Plan. I think that the President, as a respected auditor, will explain to you how this account is handled so that I do not teach you here in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u251	There's no numbering of the accounts in the National Account Plan. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u252	Please, make a note of it. He won't let me talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u253	Mr. Kirilov! [[Noise, lines, cheering at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u254	There doesn't have to be an audit to get an audit. To explain to you there may be an inventory that is quite different, and in many enterprises it is mandatory every year, but so far with these things. As for the untruths you've spoken from here. Here, honourable Members, an official document of a state institution. [[Shows it.]] An official document proving in a firm way that a large part of the banks enter into credit agreements unfair clauses with which hundreds of thousands of people practically become debtors as they become unable to serve their loans. These people, colleagues, are people who have honestly and honestly fulfilled their obligations, but it is precisely because of these unfair clauses that this is only one of the few cases that I demonstrate to you, that they become and fall into this inability. What's the big problem here? The big problem is that these people, having the bank a privileged position to obtain an order for immediate execution, respectively an executive list, to tell them the game, to ruin their lives and then to have no chance of an equal trial to prove that they are innocent, cheated, cheated. That's the truth!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u255	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. With a second line Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u256	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kirilov! After your speech, I have a question for you. Have you met with any bankers lately, made any suggestions that you couldn't resist? [[Applause from BSP LB.]] I am asking you this question because I have no explanation for how the Chair of the Legal Commission will ask what happens when the bank has a record of a warrant for the debt of its debtor! Well, dear Mr. Kirilov, in this case her debtor may object and the case may be dealt with in the general court. Read the text in art. 420! [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u257	Mr. Kirilov, you will have the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u258	The other hypotheses that you have developed, I will not deal with the acts of review, because I do not believe that they are at the centre of today's dispute or any other contract with a notary certification of signatures, which the bank could indeed abuse. Our proposal is that in these cases also the debtor may object and that the case be dealt with in accordance with the general law. This is what we're talking about right now. The bank has the huge privilege of providing an executive list even for amounts that people do not owe, even for interest that it has wrongly charged, even for fees that it has added and the citizen is not able to object. If our proposal is accepted, the debtor citizen will judge in cases where he owes the amount and it is correctly sought by the bank, he will agree and will quickly go into enforcement proceedings. But then, when he's already paid out his credit, when he's paid his interest, his fees, he must have the opportunity for some protection. That is fair and I do not hear a reasonable argument for a vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u259	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. People's representatives Chavdar Georgiev for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u260	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Kirilov! I do not agree with you, and I cannot imagine that you do not understand the essence of the problem. The colleague Bajraktarov clearly said: the problem is the vicious practice that the banks have imposed. Your bank puts interest rates in the principal and starts to interest them, the bank makes up some additional obligations that also charge you, and since it has the right on its document and extract to get you an executive order and you have no opportunity to defend yourself in enforcement proceedings, don't you encourage the banks to this harmful practice that they have established at the moment? And I don't understand how from here you're trying to shed crocodile tears for the debtor's rights! Of course the debtor knows what his condition is. He has given the bank a guarantee of two and three times and of course he will take into account whether he has an interest in a retrial or if he really owes, he will move on to some execution and will satisfy the bank's claim. We are not opposed to the bank having the right to extrajudicial enforcement grounds to seek its claim. But we are against the fact that debtors do not have any means of protection and cannot stop the execution. Well, that way your companies will take away your property. Until you file cases and until they're resolved, you're done! Please look into the contents and don't cry crocodile tears for the debtor's rights!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u261	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u262	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable replicating colleagues! Regarding the statement by colleague Bajraktarov, the equally unfair clauses. Mr. Bayraktarov, I am inclined to accept this statement as true. However, equal or unfair clauses are regulated in another regulatory act. This regulation, which specifically concerns lending, if we are talking about banks, is the Law on Credit Institutions and the Law on Consumer Credit. You did not witness the last parliament, but Mrs. Maya Manolova, who is now a widower and defender of debtors, witnessed the debates at the time. BSP also remember how many of them voted on how few of them voted to limit the liability of the debtor in consumer lending. So few colleagues from the BSP then voted that the opposition in the face of GERB was required to support this decision, to vote 30 - 35 colleagues. We voted in favour. Now I do not see BSP colleagues in their parliamentary group here again, who have achieved this amazing result. The balance, Mr. Bayraktarov, here and I will say it, because the account you quoted is not mandatory, it is accepted on the individual account plan. Balance is sought when negotiating. Here a very valuable guide in truth in this whole debate for me was the interpretive decision of the Supreme Court of Cassation. Whoever reads it is 85 pages, there will see, I would say a serious legal inventory of problems in executive production. Since I've spent a lot of time with you, I'll try to answer Mrs. Manolova. First of all, no, Mrs. Manolova, I declare, declare, there have been no such meetings. I didn't have these meetings in the garage or anywhere. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u263	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. That was the main question, in my opinion, that you answered.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u264	Was it the main... There are two questions left that I couldn't answer, and I'm sorry for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u265	You're running out of time, unfortunately. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u266	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs! I will be as brief as possible, but I will look at this from a completely different point of view.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u267	You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u268	The question is also principled because of art. 417 does not guarantee an equal trial.. what is guaranteed even before Roman times. That is to say, in order for there to be an equivalent process, there must be two parties to be present in it, the defendant and the plaintiff. Article 417 does not, in practice, guarantee this right. With an extract from accounting books you go to court, the judge, as they say, knocks with the hammer, this defendant, who is not present in the courtroom, is convicted and only when the bailiff goes to the entrance of his apartment or in his business enterprise, then he understands that he is convicted. Colleagues, this procedure does not correspond at all to the modern and not only to modern, but at all to the traditions of any normal law. Do you know what this looks like? This is like a feudal process. The process of feudalism when people are condemned without having to attend. But even in the time of feudalism, they were putting a dummy on the absent, which means they were putting a doll. You don't even put a doll in here. He's convicted, he's exported an executive list without even knowing that something like this happened. That's what art. 417. And since I assume you'll reject with your majority art. 417, all I can tell you is that there was once a Roman senator who kept saying, "And yet Carthage must be destroyed." And we from the Patriotic Front state:................................................ and still art......................................... 417 must be destroyed and, if not in this National Assembly, it will take place in another National Assembly, in another government, so in three months' time, expect this member to be put in place again. Thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u269	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? Daniel Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u270	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My reply concerns the degree of protection and appeal. I accept that, at the time when the main text was adopted in 2007, 2008 too, we have an amendment, there are two ways that are for judicial protection and can be relevant to enforcement orders. I specifically refer to art. 424 of the Civil Procedure Code. The legislator then assessed in which circumstances the debtor could bring an action to challenge the claims. If that were the case, I would support you entirely. That is, to expand the circle, to expand the possibilities eventually, again I say, not for unlimited, but for meaningful judicial protection, when there is really a risk of violating the debtor's rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u271	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? I won't. [[Noise and lines.]] You're not going to take advantage of the right to the back? No. Mr. Chukolov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I have been meaning to address this in the manner of conduct, but I will still make this statement, because here I see some of my colleagues laughing, others missing, others dealing with something else, but they do not follow the debate the way it should be. What are we discussing today? We're discussing something really important. You know that in Bulgaria banks are something over-huge, overpowering. We here now want to protect the ordinary consumer, the small person, as they say, from this huge machine, which can influence the political forces, can influence many processes in Bulgaria. A common man, as you know, can't influence anything. It can influence once every four years.. goes and votes, and usually votes for parties that then do something exactly to its detriment. From the Attack Party, you know perfectly well that this battle protects the common man against the banks, we have led him from our creation. Here we can comment a lot on the text that has been tabled by the Patriotic Front. In their style, I can even say, "It's not written properly, we'll bring in a better one." No, we will support him from the attack, because this battle must be fought. It's a small part of the battle to protect the common man, I'm telling you, from this huge bank lobby. It's part of this fight. Two thousand and nine years of memory, the GERB Party was then in power, and then we from the Ataka have introduced the relevant laws in which we wanted to regulate the bank interest, not to be as high as it was then, and now, to make it comparable to the average European levels. Then it was rejected. Then it was rejected! How many other things we have imported that we want to limit this huge and shameful process, namely, I say again, to protect the little man. My fellow Members, here I will also address the President, so that I do not take the floor in the manner of conduct. What have we witnessed? One MP from the GERB Party comes out and says: "Important is a manipulator, manipulate and tells untruths. Which means he's a manipulator and a liar. The importer comes out, says, "You're a liar." I say again and remind you that we are discussing very, very important things here. There were insults just like that, they heard the imbecile and so on. In such a serious debate, do we have the right to use such words?! We should use arguments here, arguments, not insults. One more thing. While this process is under way here, the question that came up before me is as follows: why are the importers from the Patriotic Front supporting the GERB party in the government, and GERB Party does not support what you import? Meanwhile, while this process is under way, the chairman of the Patriotic Front and the parliamentary group of GERB drink their coffee and dance together, as they say, and clarify how they will continue to rule together. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Chairman, when those who are being said to be dishonest, incorrect conversations are held here on the stands, I suggest to the monitors a theatrical pause. Because what you're demonstrating here is a political theater. Thank you for your attention. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u273	There's no way I can forbid anyone to have coffee with anyone. [[Noise and lines.]] As long as they had coffee, of course. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev, which the Commission does not support.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u274	They voted 121 MPs: 38, Against 7, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Manolova, Georgiev, Popov, Ivanov and Karagyozov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 125 MPs: 36, against 32, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u275	Honourable Members, I ask for a re-vote, as the statements by the MPs from the parliamentary platform were not supported by an appropriate vote. "Attack" said they would support the texts that restrict banks and eventually refrained from voting. I'm not surprised about the DPS. For GERB it was more than clear that the meetings with bankers were not one and two after the whole parliamentary group was motivated. There's no other explanation! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u276	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. I understand your request. It's a re-vote. They voted 132 MPs: 39, against 47, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. There is a proposal from a Member of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 3 and proposes to reject it. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] The proposal by importer is to dismiss § 3. [[BSP LB.]] The report § 3 reads as follows: "In art. 417 points 1, 2, 7 and 8 shall be taken into account. The Commission proposes to reject this. We vote. [[BSP LB.]] No, it's a vote! I didn't cancel a vote, but you're not giving me a chance to vote either. [[BSP LB.]] The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 3 be rejected. This is the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u277	What about Alexandrov's offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u278	It is supported by the Commission. Vote 120 MPs: 60 against 47, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u279	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, due to the many interruptions during this vote and continuous remarks and questions about what exactly is being voted, I think that a large part of my fellow Members have not been oriented in the vote. I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u280	Revoting, coworkers. Vote 134 MPs: 73, against 52, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. [[Single applause.]] First negative vote, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u281	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will not go into detailed motivation because the discussion was long enough, but the majority of you who voted now in favour of this text did not accept the balanced proposal of the MPs from BSP left Bulgaria because it was it that gave the opportunity to take into account the interests of both creditors and debtors. There was then the opportunity to accept the text that was adopted at first reading.. that did not happen either, and at a time that is very revealing and sensitive when we talk about serious violations in the banking system, there is a choice of governor of the Central Bank. Once again, a majority is formed between GERB, DPS and various other parties, which are always in the same positions in recent months. It is significant that what happened in one of the banks did not happen without the participation of people who now want nothing to change.. neither with regard to the protection of citizens nor with regard to the regulation of the banking sector. I say this early enough because this discussion is about to continue in the next few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u282	Mr. Bajraktarov has spoken essentially on this point, which is why he cannot make a negative vote. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u283	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, honourable journalists! We have already seen the real governance of what lies ahead and the future that lies ahead of us, which we will repeat in the local elections, after them will be seen even better coalition between GERB and DPS, supported by the votes of ABB. To say a representative of GERB that MPs elected to represent more than 33 thousand people by definition that one MP has gone wrong and does not know what voted is quite unserious. What we voted on is the inequality that is being done against banks and the ordinary borrower. You've confirmed this sort of government thing even more seriously. Perhaps here I will enter the citation of Roman sentiments and remind you of a Roman emperor who said: "Money doesn't smell when he taxes public toilets in Rome. That's pretty much what you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u284	Mr. Ermenkov, third negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u285	Honourable Members, Madam President! I voted negatively on this paragraph because I remember that, at the beginning of each National Assembly, we are taking an oath that ends with the words: I am in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people and not in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the banks. I am, of course, not a fan of extreme statements to wage war against banks, but I cannot in any case agree to be a pillar of the will of some banks and to create conditions for it to continue. I cannot agree, and I voted against having the bank's rights, and whoever owes it has no rights. I cannot agree with the tribune that there is speculation that we will hardly allow debtors to stop any judicial enforcement cases without delay, knowing very well how much this suspension costs and will hardly find any imbecile who will stop a performance case if he really owes money. Colleagues, congratulations. I am not surprised at GERB and the DPS, it is in their ideological plane to protect the banks, I am surprised at another parliamentary group, which is playing left, but so far voted only in right-wing policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u286	Mrs. Alexandrova, please continue the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u287	Thank you, Madam President. Proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov: § 3a is created. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 418 para. The second sentence shall be created: The court contractor shall immediately send to the court a copy of the communication by which the order for execution has been served.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u288	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 4 in its version on the Commission report. [[Noise and lines.]] We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 81 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u289	Proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov: screated § 3b: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Where the opposition is lodged by one of the debtors, the court may suspend the execution only in respect of that person. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u290	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Manolova, Georgiev, Ivanov, Popov and Karagyov. The Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 78 MPs: 23, 20, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u291	Proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Art. 427 is amended as follows: Art. 427 (1) The application for enforcement shall be submitted to the court contractor in whose area they are: 1. the permanent address or registered office of the debtor; 2. the permanent or current address of the applicant or debtor at the choice of the applicant for maintenance, remuneration and compensation for work; 3. the real estate on which implementation is directed; 4. the movable items when their transmission is to be carried out; 5. the place of execution of the obligations of action or omission when such obligations are required. (2) Upon the initiation of the enforcement proceedings, the applicant may request from the judicial contractor the imposition of a claim or prohibition on the property of the debtor located in the area of another judicial contractor. Upon the imposition of the Preservation Order or judgment, the court contractor shall forward the enforcement action to the proper judicial contractor to carry out the inventory and sale of the goods. (3) Where execution is directed towards cash claims of the debtor by a third debtor with a permanent address or a registered office in another judicial area, the enforcement case shall not be forwarded. (4) No transfer of enforcement proceedings shall be permitted at the request of the applicant from one judicial contractor to another in the same judicial area, except for the cases under art. 22...................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u292	Statements? I won't. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Slavov and Delchev. The Commission does not support it. Vote 77 MPs: 19 against 12, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u293	Proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov: screated § 3c: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Art. 430 is amended as follows: Art. 430. The court contractor shall appoint a special representative of the debtor in the cases referred to in art. 47 and 48. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u294	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Manolova, Georgiev, Ivanov, Popov and Karagyov. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 77 MPs: 16 against 27, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u295	Proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev: The following content is created § 3b: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 431, para. A sentence 3 is added with the following content: "In the case of official cancellation of insurance measures, a payment of a state or local fee is due.' The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u296	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Slavov and Delchev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 76 MPs: 16 against 12, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u297	Proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 432, p. 2 after the word the applicant shall be added the words in the cases where the public sale has been made after the explicit written consent of the debtor. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov: ###3d is created: ............................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 432, c. 2 a comma shall be placed after the word "requestor" and the expression "s" shall be added in cases where the public sale is declared after the explicit consent of the debtor. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u298	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote very close and similar proposals by the two groups of MPs, but we will vote them separately because they have an editorial nuance. First, we vote on the proposal of Slavov and Delchev. The Commission does not support it. They voted 84 MPs: 21, against 13, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Manolova, Georgiev, Ivanov, Popov and Karagyov's proposal. The Commission does not support it. Vote 78 MPs: 16 against 22, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u299	Dear Madam President, there are two proposals that relate to the same provision of art. 435. The first is a proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man ............................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The applicant may appeal against the refusal of the contractor to carry out the enforcement action requested, appoint other or more persons of interest, as well as the suspension, termination and termination of enforcement. (2) The debtor may appeal against the fine order and the direction of execution on property which he considers to be unsuccessable; the withdrawal of movable property or its removal from property because he has not been properly informed of the execution; the refusal of the contractor to suspend, suspend or terminate the enforcement, to replace the object or manner of execution under art. 443, appoint other or more persons of interest, as well as the costs of execution. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov: screated § 3e: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word "Appeal', the expression "Assessment', determined or accepted by the court contractor in the performance of the description,' shall be added; 2. In para. 4 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) a new sentence shall be created second: the third party's complaint shall be suspended in respect of those items. b) The previous sentence second becomes the third sentence. 3. A new para is being created. 5. The persons referred to in paragraph 1 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3 and 4 may appeal to the action of the judicial contractor on grounds of infringements committed in the preparation and conduct of the public sale concerning the proper notification, description and assessment. 4. The creation of para. 6: The right to appeal under paragraph 6 of this Article shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement and shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 4 in cases where they do not participate as bids, they shall have the connected mortgaged and pawned creditors, respectively the creditors under art. 459, where the subject of the award order is the mortgaged, pledged, banned or stashed item. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 7. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u300	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Peter Slavov and Dimitar Delchev. The Commission does not support it. They voted 82 MPs: 21, Against 12, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the proposal of Manolova, Georgiev, Ivanov, Popov and Karagyov. The Commission does not support it. Vote 89 MPs: 17 against 24 abstentions 48. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u301	Again, two proposals with regard to the same provision. The first proposal is from the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The text of art. 446 para. 1 is amended as follows: 1. In the main text of para. 1 words the size of which is "size' are replaced by "sizes' are "sizes'; 2. In para. 1 t. 1 is canceled, and so far the t. 2 becomes t. 1 with the following text: If the convicted person receives amounts from the minimum wage up to 600 BGN. one-third part if it is without children and one-quarter if it is with children it endures; 3. Previously on "T." 3 and 4 become respectively t. 2 and 3. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov: screated § 3f: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the If the performance is directed at remuneration or on any other remuneration for work, as well as on a pension exceeding the minimum wage, the deduction shall be made subject to the limits laid down in an act of the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u302	Statements? I won't. We vote on the proposal of colleagues Slavov and Delchev. The Commission does not support it. Vote 85 MPs: 25 against 19, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Manolova, Georgiev, Ivanov, Popov and Karagyov's proposal. The Commission does not support it. They voted 85 MPs: 15 against 31, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u303	Proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev: The following content is created § 3f: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. A new article shall be created. 446a titled "Unsegregable receivables' and with the following content: Art. 446a. (1) The debtor's claims on an account in a bank shall be non-secvisable when payments on the fixed account are made on part or completely non-secvisible claims of the debtor or other claims on which enforcement is not permitted. (2) The bank shall not comply with the security message with respect to non-secvestable claims. (3) The Bank shall communicate to the judicial contractor the reasons for the default, as well as the origin and amount of the outstanding claims on the account. (4) The Bank shall be responsible for non-compliance with its obligations under para. 2 in the order of art. 49 of the Law on Obligations and Contracts, and the action may also be brought in the context of an appeal against acts of the contractor, without any additional charge being due. (5) If, in the context of appeal proceedings against acts of the bailiff, it is established that a bank has violated its obligation under para. 2, the court imposes a fine of 500 BGN for each received protective notice. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u304	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u305	Madam President, honourable Members! I just want to explain that this text is completely fair and gives the reasons why non-secvestible claims have already been made on the debtor's bank account and there they cannot be seized, so here's the point. This is about something that is absolutely necessary, clearly and which gives an additional guarantee to this part of the property which is unseccessible to be so. We are not making any new regulation relating to what part of the property can be the subject of fulfillment or not, so please support this fair proposal. We, too, will support our colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u306	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Slavov and Delchev. The Commission does not support it. Vote 79 MPs: 24, 20, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u307	Again, two proposals concerning the same text. Proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev is created § 3g with the following content: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 the words "30 per cent' shall be replaced by "20 per cent' and a new sentence shall be created second: "This rule shall also apply when the execution is not directed against items'. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov is created § 3g: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u308	Statements? Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u309	Madam President, honourable Members! This is a text completely in the interest of creditors, of banks. And please don't get confused! After defending their interests, vote on this text. This will enable them to quickly receive their loans, which they have given, to satisfy their claims. Whether it's 20% or 30% is actually a catch for debtors. It is easier to give 20% immediately without any implementation, without any procedures, and then every month they will pay 10%. And they're gonna be indebted to that in writing. It's really in the interests of creditors. Please don't get confused, let's at least vote on this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u310	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Slavov and Delchev. The Commission does not support it. In fact, it is identical in its main part with the proposal of Manolova, Georgiev, Ivanov, Popov and Karagyov, so the result of this vote will also apply to the next proposal. Please vote. Vote 88 MPs: 24, against 8, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u311	Proposal by the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev is created § 3h with the following content: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Art. 468 is amended as follows: Art. 468 (1) The court contractor shall determine the price at which the property is to be sold in a store. The starting price at which to start bidding at the apparent auction with an oral tender or public sale shall be 85 percent of the value of the item. (2) At the request of the Party, an expert shall be appointed to determine the value of the item. The person concerned shall be appointed in a professional capacity when determining the value of immovable property and property under art. Paragraph 474 (b) is replaced by the following: 5, as well as determining the value, special knowledge is needed in the field of science, art, crafts and others. It may give its conclusion orally, which shall be reflected in the minutes. (3) Each Party may challenge the value of the property specified by the judicial contractor within one week of its designation and request the appointment of another or more persons of interest at its own expense. (4) The bailiff shall be obliged to respect the request in the event that the country within the term under para. 4 has imported the mix for the new expertise. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov is created § 3h: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The first public sale price cannot be lower than the tax valuation of the property where it is determined. 2. Al. 2 is amended as follows: In determining the value of the item, an expert shall be appointed, except where the total value of the property does not exceed the two-time minimum wage. 3. The creation of para. 3: In cases where the assessment of the object appealed before the court, the initial price of the object shall be determined by the rules of para. 1 and 2 on the basis of the assessment determined by the court. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u312	Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u313	Dear colleagues, the price at which real estate is sold by judicial enforcement must meet some standards, at least to some extent be close to the market, because otherwise people remain without real estate and without outstanding loans after they have passed through CSI. There are dozens of cases, hundreds of cases, cases are everyday. I can't believe that as MPs, people to whom real estate has been sold at a priceless price have not turned to you. There must be some rules here. First of all, you cannot sell a property at a price lower than the tax valuation of this property. What don't you like about this proposal? I really don't understand why you would vote against it.! What do you have against hiring an expert when describing items worth more than two minimum salaries? Otherwise, the private court contractor, at his discretion, puts some price and has people's belongings at an impasse. You are not interested, but the media were interested in a woman whose property will be sold on public sale tomorrow, for a debt that is ten times higher than what she initially took - 180 BGN, which has become satisfactory. You're annoyed to listen to him, you don't care, but the woman is outside.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u314	Enough with the manipulations!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u315	Yes, you don't care, Mr. Ivanov, but the woman is on minimum wage. At least her belongings should be sold to the value they're worth, not for free. I can't believe there are such coldhearted MPs. Make at least one argument! Here, stand up and say why you are opposed to selling the property at a price higher than the tax assessment? Why do you mind?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u316	Where were you in the Forty-second National Assembly?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u317	Why do you mind? Why do you object to real estate valuations being put on public sale to be appealed to the court? Why are you against one instance? The appeal won't delay the trial. The appeal won't stop the execution. You can put up defenses. Why do you support the bank mafia and the mafia of the court performers who abuse people in difficulty? Are you really sure that tomorrow will not happen to you, that you will never get into such a situation?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u318	Maybe, but I didn't come here to cry to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u319	I think no Bulgarian citizen is insured. His life can turn 180 degrees, he can't pay and he can't have anything. Perhaps only the anointed are calm that everything in their lives is going smoothly and simply, getting huge salaries and paying their credits. With more than 50% of Bulgarian citizens it is not so and they need protection when they cannot pay their debt, not to be sold out to their property, not to increase their duties ten times and continue to live.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u320	You ruled for a year, why didn't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u321	How's one? How many terms are in the department?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u322	These are really texts that bring about justice. [[Replications from the MPs Tsveta Karayancheva and Stanislav Ivanov.]] This isn't about choices. There will be many elections. I know that GERB is all you care about. [[Replying and shouting.]] Yeah, I know, you can see from your tedious faces that you don't want to listen to, that you don't argue why you're voting against. This is more important than the election. It's the fate of the people you promise before elections, and then you lie to them. [[Replying and shouting.]] You have created false expectations that there will be changes in enforcement proceedings and in private judicial contractors. You made them!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u323	First line, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u324	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Maya Manolova! Yes, GERB really seeks to win the elections. When GERB wins the elections, the state moves forward and is part of a strong and united Europe! When you ruled, you did not change this text, you pulled the country away from Europe. They stopped the money, no money, no infrastructure. Currently Bulgaria is a construction site because GERB won the elections! GERB managed to form a strong and stable government. You can see that the country's legitimization is quite different from what it had with your Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski. Mrs. Manolova, please, when you come out of this tribune, your colleagues are really getting nervous because you are repeating the same thing, without having anything meaningful and meaningful in what you do from the plenary tribune, so that you do not provoke your colleagues and respect each other. We want there to be a normal tone of behavior, we want there to be a normal discussion, there to be constructive talking, no talking that creates tension, and we want to talk about elections again. Yes, GERB will also win the local elections because mayors of the country should make policies for the benefit of the people. Cities and regions must develop, not be in a state that you have shown well enough how you manage and how you can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u325	Second line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u326	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Manolova, I don't agree with you at all! I don't agree, because a few minutes ago, the line was attached to the debtors, and now it's pushing the chair. You have neglected to say something very important about mortgage loans, especially when the debtor makes a mortgage, it is assessed, first of all, by the creditor and usually the valuation is three to five times higher than the credit received. Three to five times! That's if you took 50,000. lv. credit, you have to mortgage property that's worth at least $250,000. lv. Hence the mafia scheme, which includes private judicial contractors with the unreserved assessment. We will support your proposal because it is fair. You can't rob people's property in an imprudent way and keep everyone here closed their eyes. Otherwise, that old tale comes into force that in the world countries have mafia, only in Bulgaria the mafia has a country. Unfortunately, that's what it turns out to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u327	Third line, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Bayraktarov, I understand you and Mr. Mihov. Two people left in your group. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u328	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Manolova, my line is purely technical. In the provision and in the editorials we comment on, it is a reference to determining the price of a movable item. The moving things don't have a tax assessment. A few minutes ago, we were talking about real estate. My request is that you and Mr. Bayraktarov still read the texts we are commenting on. I understand that the desire was to tell about the press conference you gave outside and how you introduced the reporter in question. [[Replying and shouting.]] Read the lyrics. The moving things don't have a tax assessment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u329	A hole, Mrs. Manolova. [[Replying, noise.]] Colleagues, do not prevent Mr. Bayraktarov from hearing the answer from Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u330	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I'm ashamed of you because of everything you've managed to blurt out of the parliamentary tribune. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u331	Well, come on now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u332	I'm ashamed! [[Replying and shouting.]] I'm really embarrassed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u333	Let's finally talk normally and dialogueally. [[Replications from the MPs Tsveta Karayancheva and Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u334	It is about the price at which the court performers sell the real estate to the Bulgarian citizens and their movable belongings; for people who are in trouble so far as to sell their property.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u335	Why didn't you do it when you were in charge?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u336	Yeah, these people don't have a few apartments, they don't have a few TVs, they don't go into luxury. They don't care who wins the election. They don't care because their lives are at stake. We have just begun to discuss this text. I really don't understand what you're getting nervous about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u337	You've been talking the same thing for three hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u338	How three? Five.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u339	The issue of valuations and appeal of valuations, of items and properties being sold is put for the first time in these texts. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] I don't understand why the five of you stand in the front row when you're so nervous. Get out, go get intoxicated by the construction you're building, by the funds you're putting out. Go better among the people to see how they live, what they suffer and what their problems are.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u340	You were always among the people, Mrs. Manolova. Why do you need that result?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u341	Well, get out and you...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u342	Do you hear what you're saying, you who are among the people?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u343	Mrs. Tsacheva and Mr. Tsvetanov, we are not at an election meeting. We're discussing the terror that we have to... [[Replying, noise and shouting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u344	I agree. Colleagues, quiet! We're not in a meeting!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u345	...to debtors in executive proceedings. This is obviously where the bank mafia has done its job with the front row of GERB and with the other lines, since you do not want to hear.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u346	Personal explanation Mr. Ivanov. In the main statement you said Ivanov, I do not know if this Ivanov meant.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u347	Can you confirm that this is about me? [[Calls MP Maya Manolova.]] Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, I was not so affected in the speech, but I will immediately say what has affected me in today's sitting as a whole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u348	Yeah, but you don't have that kind of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u349	I do because I'm affected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u350	You do not have a procedure affected by the entire meeting. If you're going to talk about what Mrs. Manolova has done to you, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u351	Mrs. Manolova touched me with a schizophrenic attitude. [[Shouting.]] I've been listening to it all day, at least four or five times.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u352	Colleague, medical diagnoses are placed elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u353	That's exactly what I was going to suggest to demand... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u354	Colleagues, we're going to vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Slavov and Delchev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 81 MPs: 22, against 16, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Manolova, Georgiev, Ivanov, Popov and Karagyov, which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u355	It's not extended time. We've been working 10 minutes since 2:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-18.u356	Yes, go because there is a speech with lines, personal explanations and every text ends with a vote. We vote on the text and read the parliamentary control list. It will be reflected in the transcription at what time the texts are voted. Abort the vote! They voted 79 MPs: 21, against 31, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. This is where we interrupt the meeting. Parliamentary Control Communication on 19 June 2015, 11:00 p.m., Friday: The first will answer the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev to a question by the MP Martin Dimitrov. The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer five questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov two questions, Jayhan Ibryamov, Svetlin Tanchev and Borislav Iglev, and Miho Mihov, and one question from the National Representative Maya Manolova. The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer four questions from the MPs Boris Yachev, Stanislav Stanilov, Slavi Binev, and Willi Lilkov. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer 15 questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Ivan Kirilov Ivanov and Rumen Hristov, Maya Manolova, Villas Lilkov Two questions, Dimitar Delchev, Georgi Kadiev, Petar Kadiev stwo questions, Borislav Iglev, Ivan Stankov, Krasimir Yankov, Petar Slavov, Kalina Balabanov, and Zhelio Boychev and one question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Minister of Transport... [[Noise in the hall, MP Maya Manolova spoke with the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]] The hearing's not closed, I didn't ring the bell. [[Heckling]] You can't handle it, you want us to deal with it. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer five questions from the MPs Slavi Binev two questions, Georgi Kadiev, Svetoslav Belemezov and Vasil Antonov. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nanchev will answer two questions from the MPs Volen Siderov, and Atanas Zafirov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to two questions written by the MPs Hristian Mitev, and Grozdan Karadzhov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to two questions from the MPs Borislav Iglev, and Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev; - the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva to two questions from the MPs Petar Hristov Petrov, and Svetla Bachvarova, and two questions with a written answer from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev and Velizar Enchev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, to a question with a written answer from the MP Stefani Mihailova; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Finance... [[The conversation between the MPs Dimitar Lazarov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Maya Manolova continues in a loud voice.]] Lazarov! - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question with a written answer from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs; - Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Stefani Mihailova. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 4 and art. 97, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, due to the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the MP Maya Manolova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov; - two questions from the poor representatives Mihail Mikov and Philip Popov to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva; - a question from the MP Dragomir Stoynev to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova; - two questions from the MPs Vladimir Toshev and Lyubomir Vladimirov to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov. Due to a preliminary commitment, the meeting for parliamentary control will not be attended by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva, the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev and the Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov. Due to a prior commitment with international participation, the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. In the absence of the country, the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin, Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov and Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. I'm adjourning the plenary session. Tomorrow, a regular day of captivity, starting at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
