ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u1	Colleagues, good afternoon. We ask for an apology. The Board of Appeal lasted a little longer. Registration mode. There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] I suggest to your attention a draft program for the work of the National Assembly for the time from 9 September to 11 September 2015 as follows: 1. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 2. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to support the strengthening of functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the achievement of optimization of the costs of achieving compliance with Directive 91/271/EEC for urban waste water treatment between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4 April 2014. The Importer is the Council of Ministers. 3. First vote on the Tobacco and Tobacco Bill. Importers are Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. There are two bills to amend and supplement the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act. The first at the time was an importer of the Council of Ministers on 30 January. 2015; the second is Mr. Rumen Hristov's and a group of MPs from 8 July 2015. This is intended to be the first item for Thursday "September 10th 2015. 4. Second vote on the Preschool and School Education Bill. Importers - Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, sequel. 5. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and choosing a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the quota of the National Assembly. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the importer. This is intended to be the first point for Friday 11 September 2015. 6. A bill for ratification of the Annex amending the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support with regard to the Secretariat of the South East European Police Cooperation Convention signed on 12 October 2012 in Matrahaza, Hungary. 7. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Swedish Ministry of Justice and the International Migration Policy Development Centre on the implementation of the project. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 8. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on financial assistance. 9. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion of income and profits from the transfer of property. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 10. A bill ratifying the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 11. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Voting mode. Vote 173 MPs: 152, against 4, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Proposals for inclusion in the agenda in accordance with art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First at the time is the proposal of Mr. Volen Siderov, who proposes to participate in the National Assembly's Programme as the first item for Thursday 10 September 2015 hearing of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Daniel Mitov on the suspension of humanitarian aid to Syria. You have the floor, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose that a hearing of the Minister of Foreign Affairs be included in our program. In recent days, we have learned that the Bulgarian government has decided not to allow Russian planes to pass through with humanitarian aid to Syria. In our opinion, according to the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" it is a wrong policy, a policy in which another negative touch is added to Bulgaria's wrong foreign policy in the first place. Either way, we want to hear from the Foreign Minister, see what the considerations are, make it clear whether there is any other external influence over him to make such a decision, as it is a decision of the Foreign Ministry. I ask you to support our proposal to enter the item on the agenda, to listen to the Foreign Minister's considerations and to ask questions, if any of you have any. Thank you for your attention. I hope for cooperation from all parliamentary groups, as this is an important issue for the whole public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u3	Voting regime, fellow Members. They voted 163 MPs: 58, against 76, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is Mr. Mihail Mikov, who proposes that the first vote of the Bill on Supplement to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals with importers Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs should be included on the agenda. We're listening, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, the last few months have been constantly talking about how revenue increases in the budget. Last year, about 300,000 were taken. souls working poor those 10% of incomes that are extremely important for their survival, for the survival of their children. We have made a proposal because of the advertised good implementation in the budget for this year to give again the opportunity that was taken away last year to workers up to the minimum wage to be able to refund their 10 per cent tax after the expiry of the tax year. I believe that this will also have a good fiscal effect, because some of these funds will go for consumption in the most daily, necessary goods, not for caviar or some luxury goods, but for food for their children. I believe that such a decision of the National Assembly has a place as a step towards workers to the minimum wage limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u5	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. I put to the vote the proposal made to include the item on the agenda. Vote 168 MPs: 74 against 49 abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! I can't understand this murderous sequence of rejection of a public need that no one will be harmed by. Support the proposal that people get the money that the law has given them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u7	Revoting, coworkers. Vote 169 MPs: 80 against 56, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. A proposal has been made by Mr. Atanas Merdjanov as a point in the programme to include a draft decision on the need to review the EU's policy of sanctions in relation to the conflict in Ukraine. The project is with importer Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs. We're listening, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! For the fifth time in a row the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria proposed a review of the sanctions against the Russian Federation. It is very clear to everyone in this House that the EU's policy of sanctions is counterproductive. This is not useful for Bulgarian citizens to the greatest extent. There is a serious debate in the European Union from many countries. It is good for the Bulgarian Parliament to hold this debate, to make the relevant decisions and to give the Bulgarian government the right and opportunity to participate in this debate as well. The Bulgarian traders and Bulgarian producers are the most affected of these sanctions. Here is the place to say, and at the same time I would like to congratulate my colleague Krasimir Velchev, who made an informal invitation to the chairman of the friendship group, which is still a pragmatic cold-blooded step towards seeking a solution at this important time. Last but not least, President Putin's statement in August was aimed primarily at this, recognizing Bulgaria's right to self-determination as a member of NATO and the European Union, it has just been declared to develop our bilateral economic relations in cultural and economic terms. I believe that this is a particularly important signal for us as Bulgarians to take advantage of this complex circle of interests and attitude and to seek our place and protect the interests of Bulgarian traders and Bulgarian producers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u9	We're voting, guys! They voted 164 MPs: 52, against 52, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the time from 2 to 8 September 2015: Project of the Insurance Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. A draft declaration against the imposition of censorship in the media. Importer supplied by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs assigned to the Committee on Culture and Media. On the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act in the National Assembly received reports on the implementation of the programming budgets for the half-year of 2015 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ministry of Transport and Information Technology and Communications, Ministry of Energy, Ministry of Environment and Water, Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The reports shall be made available to the Budget and Finance Committee, to the relevant portfolio committees and shall be available to the Members of the National Assembly in the Library of the Assembly. On 4 September 2015, by letter of the Vice-President of the Court of Auditors, the National Assembly received an audit report No 01000007015 on the results of the financial audit carried out on the Annual Financial Statement of the Ministry of Investment Design for 2014 and its audit opinion. By my letter, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. Members of the National Assembly may meet him at the Library of the National Assembly. And last message: materials from the National Statistical Institute, containing information about gross domestic product in the second quarter of 2015, were received in the National Assembly. supposed data; labour productivity, employed persons and time spent for the second quarter of 2015 Foreground data; R &amp; D indexes in the section of the R &amp; D Section, except for motor vehicles and motorcycles; Industrial Production Indexes; Construction Production Indexes. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving to the first point of our weekly program: SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR LEGISLATIONS. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor now for a very brief and general argument of the philosophy of changes in the Law, because I have no intention of taking it further in the course of the discussion. In some ways, I also call on the MPs to stick to the work, to the meaning, to the texts already approved by the Committee on Health and not to enter into provocations and aggravation of work, because shortly here in this House, the picture of chaos, of disintegration, of bad health as arguments against the texts for amendment to the Law will be drawn. The truth is that we all know what we know, all Bulgarian citizens know very well that this picture of chaos, disintegration and poor quality is the current picture of Bulgarian healthcare. We are nothing but performers of their will to change that. The main objectives set by the government with the texts in this Law are in the implementation of the parliamentary majority management programme and can be grouped into three main pillars. These pillars are bound together in common logic and complement each other. First, stop the promiscuous swarming of hospitals. This process led, firstly, to a severe regional imbalance in the accessibility and availability of hospital care; secondly, to compromising the quality of the work of large construction hospitals, because over time they were drained by a parallel hospital network awarded with fat contracts by the NHIF for low-level and high-income activities. For district, university and private hospitals remained the severe, genuine hospital pathology associated with prolonged hospital stay and high costs. And if this could have its business explanation that the better and more competitive wins, then the notion of better in the world of health is only a single measure of health for citizens and the nation as a whole. Against the backdrop of this entire structural process, the health performance of the nation worsens, life expectancy, life expectancy in health. This means only one thing: that, by this recent model, we are actually financing business plans rather than an adequate treatment process. The adoption of the proposed texts ensures the imposition of European accessibility and sufficient criteria and will enable the state, municipalities and private capital for policy and investment aimed at reducing regional imbalances, only in terms of guaranteed accessibility and improved access. I would like to thank the majority parties for supporting these heavy texts in the committees, and I hope that this process will continue now. I can understand the way the opposition parties reacted. As far as this has always been a position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I do not accept it, but I can understand it, because for them, what has been told as a liberal model has always been a kind of way of being brokers of this system, of a healthcare system, which, from my point of view, is bad and oriented towards business interests and not towards people's health; I can hardly understand the position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party opposing these texts. The only thing I can think of is not making any political statement is that the reflex of the old coalition between the BSP and the DPS has been reactivated and the will of the real political decisionholder in this coalition is implemented by the Bulgarian Socialist Party. I would like to express my thanks to the ABB for the fact that, in terms of preserving its left identity, other than the identity of the other three parties in the ruling majority, they stood behind these heavy texts, together with the MPs from GERB, the Patriotic Front and the Reformation Block. The second important pillar is the legal regulation of the possibility of hospitals interacting with each other and forming a union. The results of this should be improved quality of the treatment process at maximum patient convenience. Secondly, the possibility for such hospital groups to optimize each other's structures and reduce their total costs for non-medical activities. The third important pillar is the legal regulation of the philosophy of the majority to return the function of the National Health Insurance Fund as an institution guaranteeing and defending the rights and needs of the health-insured, clear signal that the system should be adapted to the needs of patients and not vice versa. These are the texts which regulate that for diseases for which complex treatment is provided, the NHIF only contracts with those hospitals or their associations that structurally, apparatusefully and personnel have ensured this complexity. This is not a text that requires the merger of hospitals, structurally, but a text that ensures that the Cashier only in the functional unification of such structures guaranteeing the entire process of my and your treatment, on behalf of the health insurance fund the treatment for the particular disease. Once again, thank you for your support so far, and I hope that we will move quickly, because people are waiting for these changes. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u11	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Daritkova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention the Second Voting Report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions, No 502-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2015, adopted on the first vote on 14 July 2015. The Law on Medical Institutions is amended and supplemented by the Law on Medical Institutions. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u13	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 121 MPs: 121, no opposition and no abstentions. The name of the Law is adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u14	Under § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u15	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1 supported by the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: for 128, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u16	Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2a, para. 1 the words "service schools" shall be replaced by "schools" and "School schools" shall be Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Shishkov and a group of MPs also for the creation of a new § 1a. The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u17	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u19	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2, which in the Commission report shall become § 3. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u20	Under § 3, there is a proposal of the MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1 the words "Hedical institutions" are replaced by the activity of the medical institutions and of the medical and other specialists who work in them are carried out. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The health institutions shall apply technologies and systems for the collection and exchange of information, as well as health information standards established by a regulation of the Minister of Health. 3. In para. The second sentence is created: the structure and composition of the information units shall be determined by the ordinance under para. 2. 4. In para. 6 after the words by al. 1 "supplied" is added as follows and 2 "supplied" is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u21	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3, which is edited by the Commission and in its report shall become § 4. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 4 of the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u22	A proposal has been made by the National Representative Dimitar Shishkov and a group of Members of the National The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of Members of the National Assembly shall be The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kyuchukov and a group of MPs: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, para. 1, t. 2 letters to be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 et c. 4 as existing points 3 and 4 become respectively t. 5 and so on. 6................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall be § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u23	The proposals of the MPs Dimitar Shishkov and a group of MPs, as well as Emil Raynov and a group of MPs, are for dropping § 4. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Raynov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! This proposal suggests that 5 more beds should be completed in the SOCs so that they can do clinical trials. We are against this for a simple reason. These clinical trials are currently being conducted in hospitals. The income from clinical trials goes to hospitals, in particular hospitals, whose principal is the minister. With the proposal to increase the beds, all this activity is being exported to DCCs and hospitals, we watched the report on their financial situation, they will be in an even worse financial condition because they are deprived of another revenue feather. The principle that, you see, everything is full of clinical trials and a new niche should be revealed for additional, there is no such thing. Clinical studies in Bulgaria are a constant with a tendency to decline, not to increase. Concerned about hospitals, let us not deprive them of their new obligation and of this revenue feather, Mr. Minister. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Raynov. - What's the line? I won't. The next speech is from the MP Georgi Kuchukov. You have the floor, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The logic of my proposal consists in the following: enumerating medical institutions, including 1 primary outpatient medical care facilities are given. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 medical establishments are given for specialized outpatient medical care, including 2 diagnostic consulting centers and medical centers are included in these medical facilities. Personally, I believe that medical centers and diagnostic consulting centers should be separated into separate points because, first of all, there are, and not only functionally, working specialists for primary medical care. In other words, the trend is that every forward-looking thinking director of these establishments will be involved in his staff and specialists for primary medical care. In addition, by separating them into separate points, that is, allowing doctors to work in them for primary medical care, we correct an imperfection, as some of the doctors who exercise primary medical care have a specialty of general medicine. This is a specialty that is recognized in the Classifier of specialties in medicine. In doing so, we deprive these specialists of the right to be called specialists. By including them in medical centers and in diagnostic consulting centers, we are repairing this little injustice. I believe that this is a technical version that shouldn't affect the activity. I do not accept that this will affect their activities, including primary medical specialists in these two structures.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Kuchukov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Ademov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the proposal of the importer under this paragraph. I will try to argue with several sentences why we have decided to support the importer's text. First, and now, the Act in force has the possibility of carrying out clinical trials in the SOCs. The difference is that the extra beds that can be found in the diagnostic consulting centers are 10. Now the proposal is to make it 15. No one is currently proposing to violate the standard, i.e. safety, and all other requirements of the standard for conducting clinical trials are maintained, but there is another problem that probably requires this change. He's related to the number of patients. In order to be representative, i.e. to represent the study, there should be a greater number of patients and there should be an opportunity for comparative analysis between patient groups in order to ultimately achieve the objectives set. On the other hand, neither the National Health Insurance Fund nor the State Budget is burdened in any way because you know who financed these clinical trials. Next, patients are not required to be hospitalized. Isn't the primary objective to get patients out of hospitals to extra-hospital care? Why now, just because of some clinical trials, must be hospitalized with all the consequences that follow from this? Next, carrying out more clinical trials enables patients to receive modern therapy through the opportunities offered by people who conduct clinical trials. Finally, it gives an additional opportunity for financial resources from the companies to enter the Bulgarian economy in the medical institutions. The minister at the Commission meeting said that if to date the money coming from clinical studies is around 200 million, the expectations are that it will become about 300 million by the end of the year or next year. I ask my fellow Members to support the importer's proposal because it gives opportunities and does not take away any rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u29	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary! Dr. Ademov, you're right about money going in, only they won't get into the hospitals, they'll get into the DKCs. That is, with this proposal, understand, colleagues, the clinical research business is being redirected by the hospitals in DCC Tata. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Raynov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Dr. Ademov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u32	Dear Mr. Raynov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dr. Raynov, there is no such hypothesis as to channel financial resources into outpatient assistance. And the outpatient along with hospital care are part of the healthcare system in Bulgaria. I don't see what the problem is. For example, where is it said that money should go specifically from clinical trials in outpatient care, provided that five extra beds are available to the current ten beds?! You know damn well there's a standard. If observed, there is no problem with clinical trials being carried out in outpatient care. Whether it is in hospital or outpatient care depends on whether the standard requires monitoring to be performed in outpatient or hospital care. So the transfer hypothesis, in my opinion, is not convincing enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u33	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Dimitar Shishkov and a group of MPs, as well as the proposal of Emil Raynov and a group of MPs, are identical, both not supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 19 against 57 abstention 30. The proposals have not been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs, which is also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u34	They voted 102 MPs: 14 against 48 abstentions 40. The offer is not accepted. I put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer for § 4, which becomes § 5. Vote 101 MPs: 85 against 15, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u35	By § 5, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 6. By § 6 the Commission shall support the text of the importer which becomes § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u36	Statements? I won't. We vote on paragraphs 5 and 6 by importer, supported by their respective new numbering of the Report. They voted 105 MPs: 98, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u37	According to § 7 there is a proposal of the MP Dimitar Shishkov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Also, the proposals of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov, Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs, Emil Raynov and a group of MPs were withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal under para. 2, p. 1. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 2, p. 2. I'll read the unsupported part: The Diagnostic Advisory Centre shall be managed by: 1. a doctor with a recognized specialty and an educational degree in health management, health economy, economics and management or in social medicine; Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 7, which becomes § 8: It's 8 o'clock. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 2 words with a recognized specialty in medical information and health management or health care economy shall be replaced by an educational and/or scientific degree, specialty or training passed to improve the qualification under art. 43 of the Law on Higher Education in the field of health management.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u38	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u39	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! I will withdraw my proposal by reserveing the right in the other paragraphs concerning the matter of hospitals to make a reasoned statement. For the record, I am withdrawing my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u40	You and the group of MPs, together, who made this proposal. Any other MPs? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 8 in its version of the Commission Report. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u41	According to § 8 there is a proposal of the MP Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall be § 9. By § 9, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which becomes § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u42	Statements? I won't. We are voting on paragraphs 8 and 9 by importer, respectively paragraphs 9 and 10 of the Commission Report. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u43	According to § 10 there is a proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs in § 10, art. 19th para. 4 cancels the intended text and is amended as follows: In the event of non-compliance with the requirements of para. 2 and 3 hospital care facilities are not allowed to enter into contracts with the NHIF and use of public resources. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ruslan Toshev in § 10 the The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 12. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Point 5 is canceled. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 the words "medicines and medical equipment" shall be replaced by "medical products and medical devices."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u44	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u45	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, in para. 2 and 3 are described the obligations of medical institutions to provide 24-hour assistance, to provide assistance according to the specialties for which there is a permit and so on. In his expo, the Minister of Health said something that is absolute truth, revealing numerous, mostly private hospitals that avoid resource-intensive pathways, thus draining the medical facilities that carry out the real healing activity. My proposal to create para. 4 is right in that direction. Medical establishments which do not fulfil their obligations under para. 2 and 3, that is, those who do not indicate 24-hour aid do not take seriously the sick who are sending the sick to other medical institutions to have no right to enter into a contract with the Casa. I do not accept the objection in the Commission that the Ministry of Health is currently sanctioning these medical institutions. Thirty years I've been working as a doctor, and I haven't seen the medical license revoked since there's no emergency care, for example. At least I've never heard of one. I believe that this text actually supports the importer's proposal to show some complexity of the services.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u46	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Kuchukov and a group which the Commission does not support. They voted 107 MPs: 31, against 16, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Ruslan Toshev, which the Commission does not support. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. They voted 111 MPs: 15 against 32, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 11. Vote 108 MPs: 95 against 12, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u47	Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 19a: Art. 19a. In consultative offices, medical diagnostics and medical and technical laboratories and rooms without beds of hospital care establishments under art. 5, para. 1 may also be carried out activities under art. 11, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u48	Statements? I won't. We are voting #12 new in the version of the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 104, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u49	According to § 11 there is a proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov in § 11, item 11. Four down. The Commission does not support the proposal. The following amendments shall be made to Parliamentary Representative Emil Raynov and to a group of Members of the National Assembly in § 11: "1." c. 3 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 3. Al. 3 is canceled. 2. t. 4... is The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kyuchukov and a group of MPs: In § 11, Art. 20, para. 3, 4, 5 and 6 words The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Christian Mitev § 11 is amended as follows: 1.1.c. 3 acquires the following version: A new para is being created. 3: The hospital for active treatment can provide complex medical care for patients and children with disabilities and chronic diseases. 1.2.c. 4 is amended as well as the new para. 5 acquires the following version: The complex care for the sick includes the necessary activities of their monitoring and treatment, as defined by the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words give birth and medical-cosmetic services are replaced by birth help. 2. In para. 2 the words "treatment" and "treatment" are deleted. 3. A new para is being created. 3: The hospital for active treatment can provide complex medical care for patients with certain diseases and for children with disabilities and chronic diseases. 4. They're creating an al. The complex care under para. 3 can be organised on a functional basis by the structural units of the hospital. (5) In the cases under para. 4 complex care for patients with mental, skin and oncological diseases and for children with disabilities and chronic diseases include activities under art. 26, para. Art. 1, respectively 26a, para. Art. 1, art. 26b, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 27, para. 1 and for patients with other diseases the necessary activities of their observation and treatment. (6) The organisation of complex care in the hospital shall be governed by the Rules on the structure, activity and internal order of the medical establishment. 5. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 7 and in it after the words. The following shall be added to the list:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u50	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u51	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, my proposal was to drop the word "complex" because there was no legal explanation of what "complex" means anywhere. This omission was corrected in further texts. For the record, I'm withdrawing my offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u52	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. To withdraw the proposal Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u53	Thank you, Madam President. In order to save time for fellow Members, I withdraw what I and fellow Member Christian Mitev have made, as it is included in § 25, which has probably become 26 or 27 on the Commission's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u54	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u55	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! This is one of the important moments in the proposed bill. It was no accident that the minister at the beginning of his exhibition, at the beginning of the presentation of the Law, spoke to him. Point 3 and fourth of this paragraph formally implements the initial idea of forced infusion, merger or unification of medical establishments referred to in Articles 26, 26a and 26b with hospitals for active treatment. The least that can be said in this case is that there is no definition of complex medical care and what include as type and volume activities. I say "forced" because the Minister, under the good excuse to carry out complex treatment of diseases from the basic package with the so-called "socially significant diseases" he suggests, in the most general lines, in the Bill, the Health Insurance Fund can enter into contracts only with medical institutions and their associations, which can provide this complex treatment. The patients with socially significant diseases themselves receive a complex service, the Health Insurance Fund to pay for the treatment of the disease, and not at separate stages or parts thereof. There's nothing wrong with it, it's even good, but only in a way. The Minister's good ideas are always only a little bit. For example, because individual medical institutions in these associations lose their independence, they will not be able to conclude contracts alone with the Health Insurance Fund. Even that's not such a big problem. The problem is that under this pretense there will be a combination of medical institutions with the provision of complex treatment of patients in each of the existing mental health centres, centers for skin-veneric diseases and complex cancer centres. Most of it, not to say all of these centers or dispensaries are municipal, and it's like someone really wants to hold them, first, and then sell them. There is such a proposal further in the Bill. This system restructuring approach will severely restrict the powers of municipalities as owners of these medicinal curtains, hinder patient service, limit free competition in the health services market. It is really disturbing the idea of mental, oncological and skin diseases entering hospitals. Because if dispensaries for skin diseases are few and treat not so life-threatening diseases, then other centers and dispensaries are much more serious. Even oncodispansers that treat cancers, which are part of somatic medicine, can be reasoned. But mental illness is specific. How do they fit into what is called complex service? I'm sure I won't tell you anything new if I tell you that a lot of them, not to say again that all of these dispensaries have participated in the Operational Programme Violation of commitments will result in financial sanctions, but not for the Ministry, but for the municipalities themselves. I do not know whether, colleagues, you have paid attention to the people outside the Committee on Health, the opinion and the statement of the Municipal Council, which is in this direction and relation, and where there are serious concerns about subsequent sanctions. The last thing I'm going to say is that there is a real risk these centers and dispensaries, or whatever we call them, that they can't operate independently. The merger or unification of these legal entities in hospital care facilities will lead to legal and organisational difficulties, and without proven medical appropriateness, because the Minister does not provide us with logical and reasoned reasons for the need for this association, infusion or merger, except the complexity that the Minister does not want to tell us until now what it includes. And indeed, lastly, there is no clarity and wide public discussion of the strategic guidelines that are aimed at this proposal. There is also a lack of in-depth financial analysis, economic justification for the proposal or, if any, it has not been proposed for discussion in the Committee on Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u56	Mr. Bayraktarov, a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Gyokov, I thought you'd stick to the work that was also carried out in the Commission. I take a line from the point of view that this debate has been completely exhausted in the Commission. I think everyone knows what this is about. Somehow, it doesn't do you the honor of going out and reading in advance, probably unaware of which things you yourself don't understand. So let's not waste time reading our notes. If you're holding on a lot, no problem, I'll tell you what it's about. In short, what you have neglected to say is, firstly, that there are several recommendations from the European Commission, which says that this public resource, which is being spent in the field of health, must start to be used very effectively. What you said and what you read is not true! Secondly, a huge part of Bulgarian citizens, Bulgarian patients in small towns, it is high time to start receiving complex treatment. It was well explained what this means and what it should achieve as a goal. Another question is, if you don't understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u58	A line? Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u59	Thank you, Madam President! Dear colleagues! Mr. Gokov, I would kind of agree with your speech, but you have still missed the most important one, and at the moment the legal base allows all control for effective spending of the funds, and currently the legal base allows, in particular. 3, which you claim should be dropped, that hospitals can create establishments, wards, structures for complex treatment of children with rare diseases and so on. These are part of the arguments that some of the texts in this Bill may be completely unnecessary. And right now, no one's forbidding that. The bad thing is when it's done purposefully and it's put as a condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u60	Third line. A hole, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u61	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Raynov, I agree with what you are saying, and I would have no concerns about the unifications if further in the texts of the Bill it was not about the fact that, in order to enter into a contract with the Health Insurance Fund, a hospital must provide complex services. I don't think I should answer to Mr. Bayraktarov. I'll still answer you. Mr. Bayraktarov, no one writes my speeches, don't worry! They don't write them anywhere. I'm not a doctor, but neither are you. I am entering the depths of healthcare, which is not colorful at all, and this is one of the problems that I have noticed in this Bill and I would like to share with fellow Members of the National Assembly. Regarding the extent to which the discussion in the Committee on Health has been exhausted, I think that the Committee on Health has 19 or 20 members, and the National Assembly consists of 240 people who decide how to vote now, at the moment, and any statement from the stands of the National Assembly must form in them a view under the Law and on every single paragraph. I mentioned a lot of things that have happened in the Health Commission's kitchen, for example, about the declaration of the Municipal Council.................... which is hardly known to the other MPs, and perhaps all municipal councils are excited by such actions of the legislator, which will lead to sanctions of the municipalities. So please, when you make a reply, respect the rights of the Members of the National Assembly to deal with things that need to be clarified in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u62	Mr. Ademov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Let us return to the specific texts on the proposed paragraph. We from our parliamentary group, together with our colleague Dr. Kardzhaliev, propose a point. Four down. Despite the fact that the proposal was not adopted in the Committee on Health, it has practically become a catalyst for shaping the final version of the Commission's proposal, where complex treatment from imperative has become desirable, which, in my opinion, is a better option. I would very much like the Minister to hear this discussion, because the idea of complex treatment is also covered by § 65 further in the Bill. This idea of complex treatment has not been accepted by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms with the following several arguments. In order to be able to prove a complex treatment to be paid by the contractual partner, the National Health Insurance Fund, under the conditions of clinical pathways, will not happen, and we need to understand that all who are in this Chamber. Because it will turn out that by fulfilling what is written in the Law on Complex Treatment, the Health Insurance Fund will not pay, because it pays the diagnostic-medical algorithm that is agreed with the contractual partner, and nothing else. He can't pay for complex treatment. This is what we wanted to tell our colleagues from the Health Committee. What is important to note is that such a complex treatment can be found under other conditions in the conditions when so-called diagnostically related groups act. Because by fulfilling a clinical path, it will turn out that, on the one hand, you will not be able to fulfil the obligation of complexity, on the other hand, if you fulfill this obligation of complexity, which is written in the Law, you will not be paid. That's why we wanted to drop point four. However, I repeat, we are satisfied with the fact that the Committee on Health in the final version of the proposal adopted the desirable and not mandatory imperative character. I also understand the idea of the importers from the Ministry of Health for the creation of the so-called Interdisciplinary Centers. An interdisciplinary centre can only be established in medical facilities that have one serious personnel, human resources, personnel potential and sufficient logistics and equipment to enable this assistance to be found. It is evident that this can only happen in large settlements, in large cities. The idea is for example blood diseases or other such rare diseases to be treated in such centers. As Dr. Raynov said earlier, such complex centers can be created now. This is the example of the Clinic of Children's Oncochemtology, which is based in ISUL. It turns out to be a complex treatment for this disease, but in order to be able to provide complex services in other medical institutions, for example, in a psychiatric clinic, how will you provide complex services to such a patient when you have a clinical path? If one mental patient with a diagnosis, with a particular clinical path, has, for example, a heart disease, should be treated on another clinical path. It can't be a complex treatment. These were our arguments, but I thank the Committee on Health that we have found an option for a better final text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u64	Any lines to Dr. Ademov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. We have several proposed proposals from Mr. Kuchukov and a group of MPs, the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Mitev. I put to the vote the proposal of Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hassan Ademov, Emil Raynov and a group of MPs to drop the item. 4 by importer. We are voting on a motion to drop out, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 18, against 58, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs under the heading. 1, to change t. 3 and the annulment of para. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 105 MPs: 21, against 61, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the version of § 11 by importer, which shall become § 13. Vote 107 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u65	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 15. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Shishkov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u66	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote paragraphs 12, 13 and 14 by importer, which become respectively paragraphs 14 to 16 inclusive. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the texts of the importer. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u67	According to § 15 there is a proposal of the MP Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 15 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u68	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 15 by importer. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 112 MPs: for 109, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u69	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u70	We vote § 16 by importer in his new numbering of § 17. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u71	Paragraph 17. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Christian Mitev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26b the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 t. 4 is amended as follows: "4." the establishment and maintenance of an information database for persons with cancer for the needs of the National Cancer Register and national medical registers; 2. In para. 4 the word "medication" and the comma after it are deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u72	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 18 on the Commission report - this is actually the version of § 17 by importer. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u73	Paragraph 18. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm Article 3 is replaced by the following: 26c: Art. 26c. Medical activities in mental health centres, skin venereal centres and complex oncology centres shall be carried out in their structural units which have levels of competence determined in accordance with the established medical standards under art. 6, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u74	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u75	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! It's just another text that's unnecessary. It is very clear to everyone that all activities, including psychiatric, skin-veneric and oncological activities, such as all other activities, are carried out in accordance with medical standards. So writing that the level of competence should be in line with medical standards is completely unnecessary. There is no need for such a article.. makes the Law clumsy and it is pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u76	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Raynov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 109 MPs: 18, against 63, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 18, which becomes § 19. Vote 112 MPs: 96, against 12, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u77	Paragraph 19. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 1 after the words, persons shall be added to the list of persons and entities referred to in Article 2. 27 a.k.a.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u78	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 19 as an importer in its version of the Commission's report with a corresponding new numbering................................................................................................. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Voted 113 MPs: 108, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u79	Paragraph 20. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 27a: Art. 27a. (1) The Center for the Complex Service of Children with Disabilities and Chronic Diseases is a medical facility in which medical and other specialists carry out at least one of the following activities: 1. supporting the families of children with disabilities and chronic diseases for the appointment and conduct of early diagnosis, diagnosis, treatment and medical and psychosocial rehabilitation; 2. continuous treatment and rehabilitation of children with disabilities and severe chronic diseases and training of their parents to take care in a family environment; 3. providing visits by medical professionals to provide specific care for children with disabilities and severe chronic diseases raised in a family environment and in a social service resident type; 4. providing specialized palliative care for children. (2) In order to ensure the needs of children of advisory assistance and active treatment, if necessary, the centre for the complex services of children with disabilities and chronic diseases shall conclude contracts with hospitals for outpatient medical care and multi-profile hospitals for active treatment. (3) The direction of a child to a complex service centre for children with disabilities and chronic diseases shall be carried out by a physician after assessment of the medical need for diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation and/or palliative care, in accordance with the rules of para. 4. (4) The structure, activity and internal order of the Center for Complex Service of Children with Disabilities and Chronic Diseases shall be governed by rules issued by the Minister of Health. (5) Complex services centers for children with disabilities and chronic diseases can provide social services under the Law on Social Assistance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u80	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 20 by importer, which becomes § 21 "We are voting § 21 on the Commission's report. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. A statement on behalf of a parliamentary group, please come in, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u81	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll introduce you. DECLARATION from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria Most remarkable dates in our history cause conflicting assessments. [[Noise, lines and shouts from GERB: A large part of the MPs stand up and head towards the exits of the hall.]] Your reaction is yet another proof of that. That's the way it is with September 9th. 1944. But there are facts that cannot be surrounded and are not subject to time. If here some feel heirs of parties who have been denied because of Bulgaria's involvement in World War II of the Tripartite Pact, let them not feel committed to staying in the Chamber. September 9th symbolizes the contribution of the Bulgarian resistance to fascism. September 9th guarantees Bulgaria's reorientation by an ally of Hitlerist Germany in a country that fights on the side of the allies. By chance or not, on this very day, the Committee on Legal Affairs of the National Assembly will consider at second reading changes to the Penal Code for yet another condemnation of socialism with the clear awareness that they are neither justified nor justified to cause criminal consequences. Today, on another 9 September, it is good to remember what the majority of Bulgarian citizens have lost since the political denial and the idea of branding not just of a public system, but of the very idea and social practice of socialism began. So people had to give up, and then forget that every person could have a job, a home, a security, guaranteed health care, a universal education, a society without drastic property inequalities. In the decades since 9 September 1944, Bulgaria reached the group of the first 30 countries in the world according to the index of human development and its economic capacity. Today we are comforted that we are in the European Union, albeit last in it. More and more developing countries that we have helped are catching up with us. As a matter of fact, we have to admit that in recent years of transition there have been areas where there has been significant growth: unemployment and millionaires, illiterates, immigrants who are permanently leaving Bulgaria, the number of parties, media, advertising, banks, hospitals, universities and so on, but the more this plurality increases, the more the quality of the relevant activities of social services. It is known how the clash between two ideologies ended, between the two main economic and political systems a quarter of a century ago. Then conditions were created for the enlargement of the European Union and for cooperation between European countries. Europe did not understand, however, that after the honeymoon of its unification under the slogan of Euro-Atlanticism became a secondary part of the one-pole world, a world in which global opposition and restraint was replaced by numerous local conflicts at different points of the world. Europe is now picking the bitter fruits of the conflicts in the Middle East and North Africa. We must not forget 9 September so that we do not experience new tragedies! The strengthening of speculative financial capital and social polarisation cannot help but create social conflicts similar to those of the 1930s. The imposition of decisions, not through principles and established rules, but by a position of strength and the facts done, undermines international order. The danger in today's Europe to resurrect the old demons is real. The European Union cannot remain the promised land of its indigenous inhabitants. But it is also clear that there is no vast home that can accommodate all willing, all fleeing the war or seeking a better life. Moreover, integration of immigrants is much more difficult than sheltering them. The European Union experienced changes in the region's political and military map without profound shocks until the refugee wave in the Middle East arose and the war began in Ukraine. It turned out that not long after the temporary sunset of ideological opposition ethno-religious conflicts ignited. This is another test for Europe. European countries, including Bulgaria today, are paying for their participation or at least for their agreement with the wars in Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, Libya and other countries and we need to find worthy European politicians and leaders in the European Union to make this recognition publicly. The widely proclaimed Arab spring was quickly founded and instead of democracy and prosperity gave birth to uncertainty, new sufferings and many refugees. The mass influx of immigrants in Europe triggers old social instincts. A favorable social environment is created to strengthen xenophobic moods and movements. Therefore, right now we must strongly oppose the rising extremism in all its forms. Otherwise, as demonstrated by the rise of fascism, fighting it requires much sacrifice and suffering. The European Union and NATO have to decide whether they will fight decisively and consistently with the Islamic State and will participate in a hybrid war with Russia. History shows that when Bulgaria makes decisions under the pressure of some of the big bosses and then suffers severe damage, sooner or later 9 September comes! Familiar representatives, including system right-wing parties, propose that in the periphery of Europe, which Bulgaria refers to, should create some sort of filtration centres for refugees. This courteous form resembles the former concentration camps. The solution of huge migration to Europe cannot be found only on the territory of our continent. It is true that this is primarily the task of the European Union, but also of the entire international community, including the United Nations and its Security Council. All developed and particularly claiming democratic countries must host immigrants from conflict areas. So anyone who sows storms will have to know that they are involved in the harvest of storms. Next and foremost, the European Union must propose a programme for political stabilisation of the region with relatively democratic means to devote funds to economic recovery and social improvement of the situation in the Middle East and North Africa region. Such a programme must be proposed and discussed and without it no solutions only in terms of refugee relations, quotas for their allocation and temporary support cannot be the solution to the problem. Today, the European Union can only be saved through profound changes, not by attacking its critics. Both the old and new parties are called on to undertake a change of system. September 9th 1944 launched revolutionary transformations in Bulgarian society. Today, the world, Europe and Bulgaria have the opportunity to make radical changes. BSP announced the need and envisioned the way for such changes. We appeal to our people to ask politicians and to participate in these changes for social justice, for true solidarity and for economic development! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u82	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc Mr. Radan Kanev for a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u83	Madam President, honourable Members! Today we are reporting 71 years not just from a dark historical date, but from the culmination of a full century of political violence in Bulgarian history, which began with the violent dethronement of the Bulgarian monarch in August 1886 and ended with the monstrous crime of the revival process between 1985 and 1989. This century took tens of thousands of victims Bulgarians, Bulgarian citizens, repressed, killed, closed by the Bulgarian authorities and by the Bulgarian hand. It will take me a long time to list only the prime ministers of the Bulgarian monarchy who have fallen victim to political violence by various colorings in Bulgaria. Days will take us to list the victims of repression immediately after 9 September. A huge number of them were active fighters against the inclusion of Bulgaria on the side of the Axis in World War II, including prominent Bulgarian statesmen who declared war on Nazi Germany a week before they were forced out of power on 9 September 1944. Today we are once again lowering our heads on this date and bowing to the memory of the victims and victims not only from the Ninth September coup in Bulgaria and the repression after it, which took the lives of thousands of Bulgarian communists, anarchists, social democrats and other representatives of the left space in Bulgaria. We do not need only point out the personality of Traycho Kostov among the many victims of his co-party. This is not about party opposition, it is about opposition to political violence, dictatorship and their symbol and culmination in the face of the 9th September coup. After this coup Bulgaria changed the camp, you are right, colleagues from the BSP, changed the camp from the camp of the single ally of the pact "Riebentrop-Molotov" to the camp of the other ally of the pact "Riebentrop-Molotov" from one ugly totalitarian regime of the 20th century to the other ugly totalitarian regime of the 20th century. From the allies of one, we became an integral part and the most trusted representative of the other totalitarian regime. For 45 years, and I am afraid we must say in many ways for 70 years, it has taken us away from normal European democratic values, from the consciousness of public peace as the highest value and political violence, as the most vicious manifestation of political power. A regime that will inevitably remain written in black letters in the pages of our country's history, the victims of which may exceed 300,000. Souls. A regime that drove hundreds of thousands through the wire networks outside Bulgaria, and the moment its wire nets fell, the next hundreds of thousands, perhaps over a million, leave it as soon as possible. And today, when we are watching through the fallen wire networks of the pseudo-Nazi so-called socialist BAAS, and the allies of the communist regime in North Africa and the Arab world flee hundreds of thousands, the most ugly thing is that we say that the fall of these regimes was a mistake. These people are fleeing the same regime in the same way that two thirds of my peers fled between 1990 and 1995 at the moment when the wire networks of the communist regime fell. Nor will we forget how in the first days after 9 September the Communist Party began a stand-up fight with its political opponents, representatives of the intelligence, of the church, of the local government. Once again, I repeat, a huge number of them opposers of the alliance between Bulgaria and Germany during World War II. Nor will we forget how in our last gasps the communist regime turned to extreme nationalism and turned Bulgaria from the 1980s into the country with the greatest threat to ethnic conflict. In addition to destroying Bulgaria's political, economic and cultural elite through political violence from the beginning to the end of the regime, the Communist Party has caused severe wounds to our society, which have far from healed. It is not difficult to see that the ethnic and verbal wound from the 1980s also has not healed in Bulgarian society. And here I will say more.. Until political violence is recognised and denied, these wounds cannot heal. Until society goes through the process of repentance and forgiveness these wounds cannot heal. Our society will continue to suffer from the memory of political violence. It will not be protected from any new manifestations of it, nor from the unknown in Bulgarian history until 1985 acts of racism and of vernal intolerance, nor from the continuing crimes of hatred in recent years, nor from other forms of acute opposition. It will not have the culture of inclusion of the new, of what we see today in countries of northern and Western Europe, which have condemned and rejected political violence. Moreover, the culture of compromise in politics and of seeking common interest will not be necessary without historical recognition of the consequences of political violence. We cannot accept the compromise on a category of political morality until we have accepted violence as the greatest evil in politics. This thing, colleagues, and I fear our today's declaration, which we have heard from the Socialist Party, has not been made. We have not defined political violence as the unique worst enemy of democracy, freedom, cooperation and well-being in a society. This thing simply in Bulgarian politics is not unambiguously said. For now, and perhaps forever, we remain debtors to the memory of all victims of the communist regime and of all other victims of political violence in Bulgaria. Before them and before us, at least we in the Reformation bloc give our word that we will not stop telling young people in our country about the horrors of totalitarianism and violence, the evil called communism, that we will not stop rejecting violence in every form of it. Thank you. [[Applause from RB, single applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u84	Mrs Daritkova, please continue with the second reading of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u85	Under § 21, there is a proposal by the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova to drop § 21. The proposal was withdrawn in its part under § 21, t. 1. The Commission does not support the proposal in its part under § 21, t. Two and three. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kuchukov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28a the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1 the words "one or more" shall be deleted. 2. In para. 2 the words "hemodialysis centre" or "dialysis unit" shall be replaced by "centre," department or clinic by haemodialysis department." 3. In para. 3 the words "the Minister of Health" shall be replaced by "the Head of the medical establishment."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u86	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mrs. Desislava Atanasova's proposal in her unsupported part of the list. Two and three. We are voting for an unsupported proposal from a Member of the National Assembly. They voted 94 MPs: 10, 20, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the version of § 21 by importer, which shall become § 22 by the Commission's report. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u87	Under § 22, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. Two and six. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8 and 9. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: In § 22, new content of art. 29, para. 1 after the word "Securities" a comma shall be placed and added "dental and pharmaceutical" shall be added. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Kiril Dobrev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The needs of the population of available outpatient and hospital medical care are determined and planned on a territorial basis through the National Health Card through which national health policy is implemented. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The National Health Card is made on the basis of regional health cards. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: For the development of the Regional Health Card the Minister of Health appoints a commission for each district which includes the district manager, two representatives of the regional health inspection, two representatives of the Regional Health Insurance Fund, two representatives of the Regional College of the Bulgarian Medical Union, one representative of the Regional College of the Bulgarian Dental Union, one representative of the Regional College of the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals, one representative of the representative organisations for the protection of patients' rights recognised under art. 86c of the Health Act, and one representative of each municipality in the respective area. The governor of the district is chairman of the committee. 4. In para. The 4th sentence is amended as follows: The representative representative organisation for the protection of patients' rights in each of the district committees is elected and released in total by representative organisations. 5. A new para is being created. 6: The Regional Health Card shall be drawn up according to a model and in order determined by a methodology established by the Minister of Health. 6. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7. 7. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 and in it, the words and proposals for restructuring of hospital care facilities are being deleted. Dear Mr. President, because of the logical link between the two paragraphs, please allow me to report § 23 as the debate on the two can be shared. That's what we did in the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u88	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u89	Thank you. According to § 23 there is a proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kyuchukov and a group of MPs: In § 23, Article 23 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the The chairman of the committee is the Director of the RGI. The Commission does not support the proposal under para. 1. The proposals under para. 4 and 5 are withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: In § 23, new content of art. 30, para. 1 the expression "two representatives" in its three uses is replaced by "one representative" and after the expression "Bulgarian dental union" a comma is placed and a representative of the regional college of the Bulgarian pharmaceutical union is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2 and 3: In the preparation of the regional health cards, the regional committee under art. 29 perform an analysis of the ratio between precalculations in a row determined with the methodology under art. 29, para. 6, total number of beds for hospital treatment, including by species that allow the population access to hospital care in the area concerned and the existing number of beds by type and level of competence of the relevant structures in the area, as well as their distribution in hospitals and by level of competence of the relevant structures. (3) After carrying out the analysis under para. 2 The regional committee shall apply to the regional health card drawn up and opinions on: 1. the specific needs of dentists and dentists in specialties and professionals from the professional field of health care for providing access to medical care for the population from the field; 2. the need for restructuring of medical institutions or for taking other measures to establish, close or optimize medical institutions in the field, together with the relevant proposals for restructuring of hospital care establishments as a result of the analysis carried out; 3. the need to create conditions for the provision of a particular kind of care in the field - palliative or other provided for in a regulatory act. 2. Previously on AMC's... 2 and 3 become respectively. 4 and 5. Mr President, I have another proposal under § 24 in the version of the Commission. I am making a procedural proposal for a split vote on this point. 1 et c. 2 of § 24 and postpone the vote on item 2. 2 after the adoption of § 63, which in the version of the Commission, in this report, will be § 67. This relates to an additional requirement for compliance with the complexity of the treatment as a necessary condition for the inclusion of hospital care facilities in the analysis of the relevant regional health card. After a long debate and further arguments on the part of the Minister of Health and detailing the proposal on what exactly will contain the term "complex treatment" contain, I think that we should all unite around the idea that it should be adopted in the form in which we will offer it to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly in its final version. I hope this procedural proposal of mine will be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u90	We'll find out. Once again: which point first and which point second do you propose to vote separately?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u91	Paragraph 24 in the version of the Commission 2, the last sentence: "Today's para. 2 and 3 become respectively...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u92	It's al. 3, p. Two, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u93	No, that's t. 2 of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u94	Point one and point two to vote separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u95	Separately, t. 2 to be voted upon after the adoption of § 63 of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u96	In the vote, we will then see if the MPs will support the proposal. Statements? Dr. Raynov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! We see that there is a slight commotion here, which is nothing unusual, because in the Health Committee we have de facto rewritten the importer's proposal. Regarding the specific proposals, our proposal is as follows. Because there is a National Health Card, which must show all the needs of the population of health care, we are talking about beds, about specialists, and somehow shyly forget dentistry, dental care, forget pharmaceutical. Have none of us faced the problems of having entire regions without pharmacies, even large district cities without 24-hour pharmacies?! So this is something that needs to get down. Doesn't each of us know that nearly 60% of dentists are in Sofia, Plovdiv and Varna? What about the other areas that don't need them? Let the National Health Card cover these specialists as well. Since we're going to do something complex for all the citizens, let's bring this in. The second proposal is for the composition of the famous regional committees. If you're impressed, there are two people from the Regional Health Inspection, two people from the Regional Health Insurance Fund, two people from the Medical Association. Dear colleagues, who needs this? I think that one representative who will bring down the minister's opinion, the opinion of the Chief of Cassata, the opinion of the President of the Medical Union, is quite sufficient. This is two people who think that there will again be a vote that someone is trying to make some kind of quota to conduct a policy. I don't want to think it's to the detriment of the citizens. The next proposal is to add the Regional College of the Pharmaceutical Union. That's a shortcut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u98	Thank you, dear Dr. Raynov. - What's the line? I won't. First Assoc. Kyuchukov, then the People's Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u99	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! My proposals under this paragraph are quite pragmatically directed. The first thing that I think makes sense is that the head of the regional health card clearance committee is the district governor. Adding a representative to each municipality, adding a few more people who have nothing to do with health care, it turns out that the regional committee will have two or three people who know about health care. The Minister has always said and heard from this platform that the Ministry of Health is responsible for overall health policy. What prevents the chairman of the committee from being the director of the regional health inspection? It will be one of the few people who understand healthcare, is directly dependent on the Minister of Health, can conduct the health policy of the state and still have some professional competence. The other question, which personally disturbs me, is that the National Center for Public Health and Analysis determines the number of beds, determines the number of beds...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u100	It's not like that. We didn't accept it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u101	... and in the event of disagreement there is no chance that the relevant regional college will appeal his decision. I think this needs to be fixed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u102	Thank you, dear Assoc. Kuchukov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor of speech because, in my opinion, attempts are being made for suggestions that are inaccurate. First of all, it is incorrect to suggest that the regional health card commission will participate, you see, two or three people who knew about health care. That's not true. Two representatives of the regional health inspection shall participate in the regional committee. Two representatives of the Bulgarian Medical Union participate in the regional committee. Representatives of the word organizations who are legitimized under the Health Insurance Act participate in the regional committee. Representatives of patient organisations who are very well aware of healthcare are involved in the regional committee. Representatives of municipalities participate in the district commission, with a deputy mayor of health in almost every municipality. If he doesn't understand healthcare, then the question arises: then why is this deputy mayor needed? This suggestion is inaccurate. The second inaccurate suggestion that honourable Members are trying to make to you here today, and therefore I am taking this statement to make it clear to you, I will read it to you exactly as it is laid down in § 25, which the Commission has adopted as a text, what the regional health card contains. It contains: "1." data on demographic structure, morbidity by disease groups and by age and hospitalized disease of the population within the area; 2. the type, number, activity and distribution of existing medical establishments; 3. pay attention here: the minimum number of doctors, dentists, I stress: in dentistry....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What is the point of the national health card and of the regional health card to assess precisely the needs of the Bulgarian population. When presented to all colleagues the Concept 2020 was adopted in no way, because this Concept for the Development of Bulgarian Health, honourable Members, highlights precisely the effective spending of public resources. It turned out that Bulgaria in the recent reports.. both the World Bank and the European Commission have not little resource, but at the same time a huge activity on unregulated payments is starting to spin. It has been spinning for years due to the simple reason that we do not have a national and regional health card to date to determine the needs of the population in terms of the existence of medical institutions or discovering new ones in certain areas, or closure. It turns out that, you see, in one Sofia there are almost 30% of the hospitals, not to mention 40%, from across the country. That is why we have supported this text, which has been proposed, is approved by the Commission, because it makes a lot of sense. Dr. Daritkova is very right about a separate vote, as there are things that are, so to speak, the nail of this Law. I call on you to support the Commission text as it has been adopted because it is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Do you have any lines, fellow Members? Here you go, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear colleague Bajraktarov, regarding the introductions you have just said that there are representatives of all legally recognised organizations, of the pharmacists there is no first mistake. Secondly, you're very fond of quoting. The fact is that, both in this House and in the Commission, we supported the 2020 Strategy, but we supported the first part of the fight for better health, for better health performance. We specifically said in the Health Commission to all of you.............. if you do not remember.... open the protocols.... that we do not agree with the ways in which this will happen. Otherwise, there should be better health care, that these terrifying indicators that have fallen from 1994 to which place we should change, we agree, but we have expressed our reservations about how this will happen. Of course, these reservations you saw in the Health Insurance Act, you will see them here in the Medical Services Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u106	Thank you, dear Dr. Raynov. Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Raynov, I deeply respect your opinion, but today I am a little disappointed. I'm sorry, but this is about medical facilities, not pharmacies. At the very least, I am dismayed by the misunderstanding you demonstrate on this matter. Moreover, I am extremely pleased with your line, because once again it shines the thing that people resent. If I had to repeat once again, not with two, if I had three hands, I would vote with three hands on this committee not to include representatives of the pharmaceutical industry for the simple reason that they would also enter into a conflict of interest. There is already a very serious corporate interest that can be placed in the district and national health card with impure motives. [[Reply by MP Emil Raynov.]] Read and meet, and I think you know very well that you think it's okay for these people to be there, but they don't belong in this committee. If there is one such person present, he can now determine the sale of an entire company to a particular type of drug, so do not act naive. [[Reply by MP Emil Raynov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. To speak the word has the popular representative Hassan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor to express the principled position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms on the so-called mandatory health card. We at the DPS in our election platform have such an obligation to introduce a mandatory health card, only in conditions of demonopolision. The difference comes from the fact that the current proposal for a national health card, which is compulsory, is in conditions where there is a monopoly of the National Health Insurance Fund, in conditions under which there is a single source of funding. We in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms as a liberal party have always advocated opportunities for competition, not for a commandive administrative limitation of business. We of the DPS are about competition, free choice of the patient and the Health Insurance Fund or the paying agent of the medical activity to follow the choice of the patient. Unfortunately, this is not happening with the proposed National Health Card and the regional health cards. I have serious concerns, I hope I am wrong, without having anything against people entering the regional health committees, on their expertise, if they do not hire the relevant consultants, because I am not clear how they could do an analysis of a serious activity called health protection in this particular region, which is in the context of the National Health Card. I therefore believe that the role and place of the regional committees is a little overrated because ultimately they will not have the opportunity in any way, even though they will draw up opinions, to influence the decisions of the National Commission, which is announced by the Minister of Health. If this is a way of transferring responsibility from the National Commission to regional and regional committees, it is another topic and this must be said by this tribune. With these arguments, we from the DPS, and the main argument is that in the context of a monopoly of the NHIF, there is no way to support the mandatory nature of the Health Card, we will not support these arguments. Moreover, there is a text that enables regional health insurance banks to conclude, at their discretion, according to a methodology approved by the Council of Ministers by the Commission's last decision, to assess which hospitals to conclude contracts with. It's about those who are outside the Regional Health Card.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u110	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the proposal of MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 20, against 63, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text edited by the Commission for § 22 by importer, which in the Commission's report shall become § 23. Vote 109 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 5. Paragraph 23 of the Commission report has been adopted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Kyuchukov and a group of MPs in his unsupported part of the Commission. 1. Vote 108 MPs: 15 against 6, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: 14 against 57 abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Daniela Daritkova for a split vote on the text proposed by the Commission for Paragraph 24 of points 1 and 2. Vote 108 MPs: for 101, against no, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to the split vote. I'm voting on it. 1 of § 24, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 111, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 1 of Paragraph 24 has been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Daniela Daritkova to vote on this. 2 of § 24 to be postponed after the adoption of § 63 of the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u111	That's the Prime Minister's recommendation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u112	Vote 115 MPs: 97 against 17, abstention 1. The proposal for point 2 is accepted. To t. 2 we will return once we have adopted § 63 on the Commission's report, or we will not accept it accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u113	Under § 24, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: In § 24, in the new content of art. 31 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the expression "supplied" the needs and "supplied" is added, and after the word "supplied" a comma is placed and a "dental and pharmaceutical" is added. 2. In para. 2, p. 3 after the word "specialities" a comma is placed and added "pharmacies" is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kyuchukov and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 24, Article 24 is replaced by the following: 31, para. 2 is added as follows: 6 with the following text: It's six. analysis of the need for hospitals, the number of practitioners and dentists in outpatient care and beds for hospital treatment, including by species. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The regional health card shall contain: 1. data on demographic structure, morbidity by disease groups and by age and hospitalized morbidity of the population in the area; 2. the type, number, activity and distribution of existing medical establishments; 3. the required minimum number of doctors, dentists and professionals from the professional field of health care in the outpatient care in specialties; 4. the number of practitioners, dentists in specialties and the number of professionals from the professional field of health care in the outpatient medical care in the field; 5. the number of existing beds for hospital treatment and the medical activities carried out by species and their distribution in hospitals and by levels of competence of the relevant structures; 6. data on the type, number and distribution of high-tech diagnostic and treatment methods performed in the field and available for their application of high-tech medical equipment. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: , ((2) To the regional health card under para. 1 shall apply a proposal for the distribution of the number of beds and medical activities by species under para. 1, t. 5, as well as the number of doctors and specialists in Al. 1, t. 3 defined according to the needs of the population in the respective area in order determined by the methodology under art. 29, para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u114	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u115	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues, without underestimating the expert potential of colleagues, just to clarify: pharmacists, master pharmacists are those who offer medicinal products in pharmacies are not the representatives of the pharmaceutical industry. It's for those who say pharmacists shouldn't be on a health card. Again, whole regions are without master pharmaceuticals, no pharmacies. Colleagues, make a difference between pharmacists and pharmaceuticals is a significant difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Raynov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, once again they are trying to mislead you. By the way, today the Labour and Social Policy Committee will consider a very interesting report, which has very interesting information. First, I would like to open a clamp that Bulgaria is still in a market economy. What does this report contain, and what is the interesting information? In the past year 165 settlements disappeared from Bulgaria's map because no one lives there. I quote from my memory, 1312 settlements have a population of up to 45. Come on now, dear Mr. Raynov, go and open a pharmacy in these 1312 settlements and tell me how it will comply with the principles of international and national accounting standards to carry out its activities with the ability to make a profit or at least continue its activities? How do you think that's gonna happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u118	With mobile pharmacies.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u119	Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Raynov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u120	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Bajraktarov, about the market economy that you plead will become clear several members further where you will see how the Council of Ministers with a regulation will determine which hospitals the Casata will enter into a contract with. Or perhaps the Council of Ministers had a decree to determine with which pharmacies the Casa will enter into a contract?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Raynov. The next speech is the People's Representative Georgi Kyuchukov. You have the floor, Assoc. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u122	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, my proposal has been made again from a purely pragmatic point of view. Article 31 shall include a picture of the current situation in the given area. This photo is not even made by him, but sent directly to him by the National Center of Public Health and Analysis. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 The next one is recommended action. In order to recommend action, the data from the photo, whether downloaded or made by the district commission itself, must be analysed. If there is no analysis of the data drawn from above and this committee has no right to say its opinion on the state, on the necessity, then this committee does not make any sense at all. They go down on her, then she finds out what's down on her, and that's it. I believe that the analysis that this relatively independent committee should do is vital because, with this analysis, it can correct some inaccuracies of the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis, which is a bureaucratic structure quite detached from real health care.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u123	Thank you, dear Assoc. Kuchukov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 16 against 74, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 16 against 31, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer for § 24, which is edited by the Commission and in its report becomes § 25. We are voting § 25 in the version of the Commission. Vote 109 MPs: 92 against 11, abstention 6. Paragraph 25 of the Commission report has been adopted. Before announcing a break - one message: Dear Members of the National Assembly, at 11.30 am at the Club of the National Representative will be opened the photo exhibition of Bulgaria in the colors of the American artist Brian Daly. It is realized with the support of the America for Bulgaria Foundation and the Embassy of the United States of America in Sofia. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to the opening of the exhibition. It's 11:33 a.m. break till 12.05 a.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u124	We are continuing the plenary session. Please invite the Quaestors to invite the honourable Members to the Chamber! Mrs. Daritkova, let's move on!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u125	Paragraph 25. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 1. Point 2. In para. 3 after the word "specialities" a comma is placed and added "pharmacies" is added. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 2. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Shishkov and a group of MPs: In § 25, in the wording of art. 32 the following amendments shall be made: (a) A new para shall be created. 4 containing the following content: The data referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 3, p. 1 shall be submitted through the Ministry of Health to postgraduate specialization centres in order to update information on the need for a certain type of specialist. (b) paragraph 4 shall become para. 5. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Christian Mitev: The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 25, which shall become § 26: § 26. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1 sentence 2 is created: The Board shall include the Director of the National Health Insurance Fund, the Director of the National Centre for Public Health and Analyses, the Executive Director of the Executive Agency "Medicinski Audit" and the Chairman of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, two representatives of the Bulgarian Medical Union, one representative of the Bulgarian Dental Union, one representative of the Bulgarian Association of Health Professionals, one representative of representative organizations for the protection of patients' rights recognised under art. 86c of the Health Act, and three representatives of the Ministry of Health. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The National Health Card shall contain: 1. the district health cards; 2. the specific needs of dentists and dentists in specialties and professionals from the professional field of health care to provide access to medical care for the population in the outpatient medical care for all areas; 3. the specific needs of beds for hospital treatment and medical activities by species and levels of competence of the relevant structures for all areas; 4. existing hospitals for hospital care, medical institutions under art. 10 and medical establishments carrying out high-tech diagnostic and treatment methods on the country's map; 5. analysis of the condition in the districts, including on the necessary dentists and dentists in specialties and professionals in the field of professional health care. 6. the types of medical activities planned at regional level according to the separate areas under art. 4, para. 3 of the Law on Regional Development; 7. a map of the necessary high-tech diagnostic and treatment methods and their associated high-tech medical equipment; 8. a map of emergency medical care containing the number and location of emergency medical care centres. 3. The creation of para. 3: The National Health Card identifies by areas the needs of dentists and dentists in specialties and professionals in the field of health care in the outpatient medical care, as well as the number of beds for hospital treatment and medical activities by species and by the level of competence of the relevant structures, and their planning, as well as the planning of the medical institutions implementing high-tech methods of diagnosis and treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u126	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the proposal of Emil Raynov and a group of MPs in the part where it is not.............................................................................................. 2, and not supported by the Commission. We are voting on the unsupported proposal. Cancel the vote! There's no quorum. Name check. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - absent Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - here Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valentin Stefanov Vassilev - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - absent Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - absent Dimitar Angelov Gorov - here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - absent Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar StamenovNikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - absent Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Together with the additional entries: Anton Dolapchiev, Altimir Adamov, Boris Yachev, Valentin Vassilev, Ayhan Etem, Gunay Husmen, Aidoan Ali, Desislava Kostadinova, Georgi Anastasov, Iliya Iliev, Georgi Svilenski, Boyka Marinska, Kiril Kotev, Dimitar Petrov, Alexander Metodiev, Radan Kanev, Petar Petrov I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Emil Raynov and a group in the part where it has not been withdrawn and is not supported by the Commission. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. They voted 122 MPs: 18, against 67, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Shishkov, you are withdrawing your proposal, which is not supported and will therefore not be put to the vote. We are now voting § 26 on the Commission report and in the version of the Commission. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: 116, against 2, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u127	Under § 26, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Shishkov and a group of MPs. An offer by Emil Raynov and a group of MPs, which has also been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer which is reflected in its systematic place in § 26 in the version of the Commission. The Commission proposes that § 26 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u128	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 26 by importer. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 113 MPs: 111, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u129	Under § 27, there is a proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov, which has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of Members of Parliament: in § 27, p. 3, the new content of para. 4 after the word "stations" a point shall be placed and the text to the end shall be removed. In § 27, t. 3 in the new content of para. 4 after the word "stations" a point shall be placed and the text to the end shall be removed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by Dimitar Shishkov and a group of MPs. The proposal has been withdrawn as well as the proposal of Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The second sentence is finally added in the cases determined by the methodology referred to in Article 2. 29, para. 6................................................ 2. Alinea 3 is canceled. 3. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The National Health Card under para. 1 is mandatory for the planning of medical activities by species carried out in medical establishments, except for medical establishments under art. 8, para. 1 created by dentists by the order of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u130	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u131	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! In the context of the previous articles and previous statements here you can see that we are introducing a norm throughout the bill and it is a mandatory health card. We are introducing a norm and, at the same time, we are introducing exceptions to this norm. I mean, except for dentists. Our suggestion is that there is no exception. The law must be equal to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u132	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I'm voting on Mr. Raynov's proposal and a group. The Commission does not support it. They voted 117 MPs: 19 against 67, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 27 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 119 MPs: 111, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u133	Under § 28, there is a proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov that the paragraph be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is an equivalent proposal of the MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kyuchukov and a group of MPs: In § 28, Art. 34a, to the text of art. 34a, the words shall be added after the words "the Order of the Minister of Health." 19th para. 2 of the present Law The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u134	Do you support the proposal to colleagues Shishkov and a group of MPs? You're withdrawing him. My request is for you to say in advance so we don't waste time reading it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u135	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 Article 6 is inserted in Chapter 6. 34a: Art. 34a. In the areas where the number of beds for hospital treatment exceeds the specific needs of the number of beds by species defined by the National Health Card, the directors of the Regional Health Insurance Fund shall conclude contracts with hospital care establishments or their associations selected by criteria and by order defined by a decree of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u136	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u137	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! Today is September 9th, we are in a hurry to adopt the bill for medical institutions. We appreciate the gesture, but, colleagues, this is the cornerstone not only of this Bill, but also of the whole philosophy in the health insurance model, which currently exists in Bulgaria. BSP left Bulgaria, we have always maintained the thesis that there should be a mandatory health card in the country to guarantee people's access to health services. But here I'm already opening a clamp: what is offered with this article? With this article is proposed where hospitals are in excess, that is, we have an excess, the Council of Ministers with a decree to determine which establishments will enter into a contract with the National Health Insurance Fund. Colleagues, I don't underestimate the expertise, but I have to explain the details. First, every medical establishment must meet certain conditions in order for the Minister to grant him a licence. The second: The National Health Insurance Fund also puts conditions on the basis of which the medical institution At some point we create a second authorisation regime. At one of the Cassata, and where there are more, the Council of Ministers determines the Casa with which hospitals to enter into a contract. I do not want to dwell on the details that this is a command-administrative approach, because in the original version of the project it was with the Minister's regulation. Of course, this was another member who was added by the Health Commission and colleagues. The responsibility was transferred to the Council of Ministers, again under the condition that the Council of Ministers is on a proposal from the Minister. I don't know here how this regulation, these rules, these hospitals will be dealt with by the Minister of Ecology, the Minister of Defense or the Minister of Transport. Dear colleagues, we are all still paying health contributions in Bulgaria. The patient chooses where to treat and the Cashier is obliged to pay after him. By accepting this article, the patient no longer chooses where to be treated, but someone else, instead of him, and points out to him in this hospital can, in this hospital.................................. can not......................................................................... Colleagues, with this thing, if you accept it, you acknowledge.. we will all admit that at the moment money is not going after the patient, the patient has no choice, and the Casa pays for support of structures and determines who will be treated where. Until New Year's Eve, licenses were issued and now again administratively will be imposed on the Casa with which hospitals to enter into a contract. Colleagues, understand this proposal shows the inability of the current holders of the Cashier and the Ministry to control the system. They refuse to control her where patients are being treated, there to pay, and try by administrative methods to impose other rules. All this in 2015 in a Member State of the European Union. With this, we cannot agree, and we will therefore vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u138	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Ademov. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u139	Thank you, Madam President. This is one of the texts on which there should be a serious, in-depth discussion, rather than rushing it, because it is an opportunity given to regional health insurance funds to enter into contracts with health institutions outside the regional health card according to a methodology that has already been accepted here by the Council of Ministers. This means that the regional health insurance fund has such a hypothesis, to impose a political bat on uncomfortable directors of medical institutions. You know perfectly well that's true. If the current directors of regional health insurance funds will not afford this, there will come a time when you will appoint directors of regional health insurance funds that will benefit from this text. Be sure of that! Such a text would rather go to the left side of the room. Over the years, BSP colleagues have failed to insert such a text. This text eliminates any competition. Colleagues, medical establishments with which the NHIF will choose to enter into contracts with them according to a methodology are medical establishments to which the Minister has granted a licence. These are medical facilities that meet all standards. These are medical institutions that have the right to work but cannot enter into contracts with the National Health Insurance Fund. Why do you need a double standard? Once you enter into a contract under the National Framework Treaty, twice you enter into a contract on the methodology. How do these things work? Aren't medical institutions equal, as said at the beginning of the Law on Medical Institutions? Dear colleagues, understand that this text eliminates any possibility of competition, any possibility of choosing a patient. Because in any case, the patient will be forced to choose those hospitals that have a contract with the Cashier, because others have to pay. You say, "We are stopping the swarming of hospitals on the one hand, but on the other hand, you are proposing privatization. What's the right thesis, one or the other? Dear colleagues, we have proposed that this text be rejected because it allows, on top of that, there is also a hypothesis about corruption pressure with which hospitals to conclude a contract. Is there such a hypothesis? Of course there is. Therefore, honourable Members, vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u140	First line - Dr. Shishkov, second line - Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u141	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I will allow myself, without the knowledge of the Minister, to give one answer. What competition are you constantly talking about, since there have been delegated budgets so far? That's the answer. In the case of a delegated budget, there is no competition. When it comes to the National Health Insurance Fund, she assumes responsibility with whom and how she will conclude the contract. And when there are more health cases, yes, then we'll talk about competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u142	Dr. Raynov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u143	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! Dr. Ademov, I was surprised to discover that the reformers are here. I expect to see how GERB will also support the minister. To you directly: what BSP wanted to impose such a thing has never been offered by BSP. The first thing it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u144	The map!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u145	Mandatory map. Yes, but not administrative, by regulation, determining which hospitals to enter into a contract with. The second, you very well mentioned the bat that will be used with this regulation, but, apart from this bat, you forgot one other option. What about the minister's option to point out the state hospitals who will not enter into a treaty with the Cassata and who will go through bankruptcy to privatisation, which he so kindly gave up? Let's not forget that, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u146	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Shishkov, you say that in delegated budgets competition is not possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u148	Who introduced them?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u149	You!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u150	However, when we adopted the budget of the NHIF for 2015, our parliamentary group and other colleagues voted against the delegated budgets, and you voted for them. Next, it is not true that even under delegated budgets there can be no competition. Competition between medical institutions when a better quality is offered, i.e. in order to attract the patient even within the limits of financial resources. If you offer a better quality and if you have this opportunity, you can offer the patient a better treatment and attract him that way. Next, provided that medical institutions outside the Regional Health Card and outside the National Health Insurance Fund meet all the standards, all the criteria, how will we deprive them of the right to enter into a contract with the National Health Insurance Fund? In this way, we deprive the patient of his right to choose, because this medical facility, which is outside the National Health Card, may offer better and better treatment. We have always offered the money to follow the patient, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we have proposed if the patient has chosen the particular hospital, the Health Insurance Fund simply to follow his choice. That's the right-wing thinking the Minister disagrees with. But there is another argument that is very important. This argument is that, by eliminating the possibility of the patient choosing the medical establishment, we are not giving him the opportunity to determine the health card. If the patient chooses a particular medical facility, it will continue to exist. If he doesn't choose him, of course he'll go bankrupt and the hospital itself will be excluded from the Health Insurance Fund. These district health cards will not be required and I do not know what methodologies to determine which hospitals are. Dr. Raynov, the note is to you: what I said that over the years you couldn't enter this way, you didn't just think of it. I wanted to say that such an approach of command-administrative regulation, such regulation goes more to you than to them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u151	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I really said I wouldn't take the floor, but something happened here that I didn't expect. Firstly, on the concrete arguments, I will not come into argument with the texts supported by the Commission. The entire expert evaluation has been given. I will only say that if this is something invented by the Minister, by the Command Administration or by some evil forces, then all of Europe and European systems are governed by evil powers and in a bad way, because there is not a single European state in the so-called good European world, where you can open a medical establishment under the pretext of making someone a better choice. Each opening of a new medical establishment is linked to clear criteria for sufficientness, which are provided for in a regulation of the Council of Ministers. And what is the competence of the Council of Ministers you can answer for yourself. If there is an organ with all possible branches of knowledge and expertise, that is another matter. However, I take the floor on another occasion. This thing has also gone into the Commission, and I did not expect it to be said here. Ladies and gentlemen, a moment ago, a Member of the National Assembly clearly declared that a hospital director was a political appointment, that hospitals were the political avant-garde of certain parties, because the health card could deal with politically uncomfortable hospitals. That's what every reasonable person in this room needs to face not as a doctor, like me, but as a potential patient. Because if the hospital isn't something that meets our needs as a patient, as comfortable as possible, as complex as possible for us, it's a place for political appointments or acquittal to political parties, then we really are in deep shit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u153	Bullshit!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u154	Today, the truth was delivered in the Bulgarian Parliament, not by me, but by the MP. A serious part of these hospitals are in fact hidden mechanisms to benefit political parties, their actors and their guides are part of this scheme. That's against the mechanism of the health card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u155	Thank you, dear Minister. [[General applause from GERB.]] To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov. [[Relation of lines between Minister Moskov and MP Hasan Ademov.]] Please don't engage in dialogue!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, many of the things I wanted to say were said by Mr. Minister. In fact, I have experienced the political repression of a doctor when a doctor is also used in the hospital for political self-mutilation. Yes, I have experienced it, and in an extremely disgusting way to be politically humiliated, my little son was recorded in an official document that he was born a girl. Let me tell you how this works.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u157	What kind of repression is there in that? There's bullshit here, not repression.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u158	Yeah, the document's there, I've shown it. It's just a repression. But that's a whole other thing. In fact, on the big issue in this article, which concerns and is the cornerstone of the reform, it must be done, but because of it, colleagues, I will have to return you to the Health Insurance Act to make it clear what this is about. I will return you to remember how long this Health Insurance Act was stalled and delayed, because it had to work on the old conditions and finally the National Health Insurance Fund to reach for 200 million in the reserve to cover the actions of the Casa and the medical facilities under the old arrangements. And why was it dragging on? Because the adoption of the Health Insurance Act makes a small adjustment, but with a significant effect, namely the Cashier no longer pays, but buys. Isn't that right, Minister? I mean, you can't post the Cashier's invoice and she won't pay. Control is rooted in this text. We of the Patriotic Front insisted that the criteria be determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers. I thank the Commission for adopting this proposal and everyone united because when the criteria are determined by a regulation of the Council of Ministers, they go through a public discussion, there is serious publicity and transparency and, most importantly, the opportunity of all participants in this process to express their opinion. Well, is that what I'm asking?! Or we need to re-create vicious practices to swarm hospitals as they want us to pay, but the quality of the healthcare service does not. Not once or twice have we said that we must limit the volume of activities at the expense of the quality of the health service. Everyone agreed that, yes, that's the way it's supposed to be, but when you reach into the interests, it starts bouncing. We will therefore support this text as the Commission has formulated it, because it is the right text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u159	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Ademov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, it was necessary, as some practice here in the National Assembly, when the opposition or any MP declared against some of the texts of the minister who proposed them in a submitted bill, to declare himself an enemy of the reform, as a person who supports the status quo and sabotages the proposals made. But that's just clichés and clichés. If you don't have any real evidence to say, don't make that kind of statement, dear Minister! If you do not specify what corruption practices are, who are the political parties that have benefited from political appointments, this means that from this tribune you are talking empty talk and nonsense!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u161	Was the line to Mr. Minister or Mr. Bayraktarov? We assume there is no reply to Mr. Bayraktarov's statement. A line to Mr. Bayraktarov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u162	In addition to what Dr. Ademov said. If there are any such signals, it's been a year and someone had to do the job. Stop this: whoever disagrees with us is the enemy. I suspect that some people have graduated from the Soviet Union, the current Russia and have read the memories of Beroea: Don't do that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u163	There are no such people!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u164	For the next speech, the People's Representative Krasimir Petrov. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] You're assuming that this line is to you? All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u165	I'll be very brief, Mr. Chairman. Since my replicators do not know by what criteria they are recognized, I will use the Bible's expression: "In their works you will recognize them. " Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u166	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Ms. Karayancheva's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u167	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I propose that we extend the working hours until the final acceptance of the item. 1. [[Noise and cheering: "Eee!" by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u168	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposed by the MP Tsveta Karayancheva. Voted 103 MPs: 86 against 15, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. For speech there is the word of the people representative Krasimir Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u169	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Let's simplify things a little bit and cool the passions. When assessing the state of a system, we need to answer a few simple questions. The first of them is: are we satisfied with her? More than once in this Chamber, each parliamentary group has practiced rhetoric on the imperfections that are in our health system. What is the main reason for them? I believe that the main reason is the unclear role of the state in the healthcare system. Here I heard clichés that have been used every time the patient's free choice, market economy. Okay, all this sounds pretty good, but right behind the mask of these clichés in health care created a mess, a mess that, by the way, made some millionaires. And if we have to talk about what the main role of the state is at the moment, it is that maybe we should separate the medics from the merchants.. something that is extremely important. This text really is the cornerstone of it. It gives the toolbox to the minister to separate the medics from the traders. Now you're going to ask me how they differ by something very simple. Let's look at what the public benefit is, what the state benefits from all those who deal with hospital treatment, which should actually be the main criterion. In this regard, I fully welcome the minister's idea and support it. The way this is going to be done depends on him, but he wants to take up this responsibility, which makes him honored. I call on all of us to vote for this article. I call on you from the position of a man who has worked 25 years in the field of emergency surgery and knows the system very well, believe me. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u170	Thank you, dear Dr. Petrov. - What's the line? I won't. For speech there is the word of the people representative Georgi Kyuchukov. Here you go, Assoc. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u171	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Indeed, this is one of the most important articles in the debate Law, and I agree with its logic. I also agree with Dr. Petrov's logic, which I fully support. At first, it was proposed that the methodology should be determined by the Minister of Health. The Commission accepted that the methodology for determining the hospitals with which aid is to be concluded is defined by the Council of Ministers as a collective body, although the proposal will clearly and undoubtedly be again the Minister of Health. I have no doubt in the good intentions of the Minister of Health, although the Law is not only made for this minister, but should last longer. However, I do not see why this paragraph does not include minimum criteria for both the Minister and the Council of Ministers to comply with and based on. We leave such a decision to the Minister, a decision of the Council of Ministers. How, why, based on what, is unclear. I proposed that, it was not accepted by the Commission, that a reference to art. 19th para. 2 and 3 which set the minimum requirements for each hospital. I do not see why we are afraid of asking the medical institutions to comply with their minimum obligations and based on them to build the decision of the Minister and the Council of Ministers. Be calm if you think it won't help them. On the contrary, it will be very helpful for them, because if these criteria are met, they will not reach the medical institutions for a contract with the Cashier there is something unnecessary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u172	Thank you, dear Assoc. Kuchukov. - What's the line? I won't. For speech is the word of the people representative Krasimir Jankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Looking carefully at the text, I first see that this campaign, which Minister Moskov made, announcing the need or recommending that there should be association in the various regions of the country, there should be a consortium between private and state-owned, and municipal hospitals, is also used in the text itself. It's about hospital care facilities or their associations. Colleagues, populism has always had a leading, major role in rhetoric, talking about health care, and thus allowed the minister to accuse us politicians of participating in the appointments that parties feed on hospitals through appointments, through political representatives. It became clear from the text so proposed and from the intentions stated by the Minister and the majority that, by adopting this text, we are creating a corrupt environment. You understand that, don't you? And this corrupt environment will give the opportunity to negotiate on some criteria that, although being adopted by the Council of Ministers, will be proposed by the Minister of Health, by the Ministry of Health. And these criteria, as a result of their adoption, will be signed contracts with convenient medical establishments or associations! I mean, the corrupt environment that we create with this text is quite realistic and I don't know how, what kind of eyes did Minister Moskov face, after a year of government, blame someone for the condition and appointments in hospitals! It is easiest to accuse the MPs that they have not adopted a law that regulates the unification of institutions, anti-corruption structures! However, honourable Members, any Bulgarian citizen, including the Minister of Health, if there is information, if there is evidence of corruption practices, of crimes due to corruption, is obliged to provide them to the investigating authorities! There are laws, and if they are executed in good faith, we will have both investigation and evidence to the justice system, and we will have condemned! Isn't that right? What is proposed actually creates an exact opportunity, the consequence of the adoption of this text, to be vulnerable to the minister who offers the criteria to be vulnerable, and those to whom contracts will be signed with certain hospitals and their associations. And on the issue of the associations, this is a hidden form of detention, even though you gave up privatization of hospitals. At the moment when we merge into a consortium of private and public and municipal hospitals, we are already giving the private initiative the opportunity to reach the public resource, because the ownership through the state and municipalities belongs to us Bulgarian citizens. That's the big danger. I do not see how this text should be adopted and working for the benefit of patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I won't. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u175	My fellow Members, I believe that everyone has already said their points of view and we will hardly be able to add anything to the debate. I propose a procedure to end the debate. One remark to Mr. Minister. Minister, when we talk about corruption practices, I would suggest that you publish in the media the contracts of the Health Insurance Fund and the amounts paid for last year. Publish them! Thank you. [[Noise and lines in BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u176	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u177	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will use the procedure to object to the proposal to end the debates, but since I am convinced of what will most likely happen, I use this procedure to make within its frameworks a brief editorial addition to the text of the importer: to add, where it is said, the National Health Insurance Fund is holding With the support or lack of support of this proposal, we will actually test whether the aspiration and motives really are for complex treatment, whether by the criteria which the Council of Ministers has defined, because as a management body must determine the criteria, from there on all the medical institutions will be treated equally and they will be able to compete for these limits, for those needs that the Casa must finance. Without accepting such an addition, any suspicions or reproach expressed by the previous speakers will most likely be justified. Therefore, please, Mr President, although in the context of the procedure, consider my proposal for art. 34a In the areas where the number of beds for hospital treatment exceeds the specific needs of the number of beds per species defined by the National Health Card, the directors of the RHIF shall enter into contracts with hospital care facilities on a competitive basis. This is the final version of the Commission. What I have done as a proposal is absolutely relevant to this final revision. Please be put to the vote before voting on the final text of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u178	Thank you. We are going to vote on the proposal made by the MP Krasimir Petrov to end the debate. Vote 91 MPs: 77 against 14, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposals of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov, as well as the MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs who are the same. The Commission does not support them. Please vote. They voted 96 MPs: 15 against 59, abstention 22. The proposals have not been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 20, Against 14, 56 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov for editorial change in § 28, as per the Commission report, after the words Please vote. They voted 94 MPs: 23, against 30, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the edited text of the importer for § 28, according to the Commission report. Vote 98 MPs: for 83, against 15, no abstentions. The paragraph has been adopted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u179	Thank you, Mr President, for allowing the proposal I have made to be voted on, and his rejection has shown, Mr. Minister, your and your supporters hypocrisy, because rejecting this proposal allows for arbitrary action. You can save criteria in the Ordinance, but if we do not create guarantees for the implementation of these criteria and for equal access to anyone claiming to meet them, real opportunities are created by other preferences to select medical institutions to conclude contracts. I am not saying that the competition procedure in all cases guarantees the elimination of abuses, but it still announces equal access according to these criteria, creates publicity and, from now on, the possibilities for control and appeal of the decisions that the district courts will take. So what you didn't do raises a lot of questions. I fear that the practice will confirm these concerns, given the deep plagues in the current system of Bulgarian healthcare, how to tolerate certain medical institutions, how they will probably be pressured and liquidated others, how this notorious health market may be re-distributed again, which may be at the expense of weakening the positions of public health care, equal access and even distribution of health care in the country. That is why we voted against. I was ready if you accepted this proposal, to really support it, because declaring the idea to some extent sounds good, but its realization in this indeterminate form really brings us to new ones, apart from existing problems. The practice will show it, but the far-sightedness of the decisions is when, before all the failures occur, they are highlighted and the regulatory and management means are found to prevent them. For this reason, the adoption of the law, along with some other provisions, will deepen the problems we face regardless of good assurances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u180	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. For the second negative vote, the public representative Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u181	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I voted against the adoption of this paragraph for two reasons. The first reason is that everyone here who tried to protect him could not convince me of the appropriateness of this paragraph, even more talking about some swarming of hospitals, which in this case has nothing to do with the paragraph. This is about limiting already licensed hospitals and no swarming can be in this thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u182	It's already set.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u183	Yes, perhaps they are, Mr. Minister, and now I will refer to the second reason. The second reason I voted against is precisely the respect for the ministry institution, without relative political leadership at the moment. Because with what you have currently voted for, you have shown the bankruptcy of this leadership, which cannot cope with the existing situation and creates administrative and command ways to limit it. Because when hospitals are given their respective work licences, they are recognised to be able to work and there is no reason for anyone to limit them afterwards. If they do not meet the requirements, take their license, but do not introduce additional requirements that need to be somewhat subjectively assessed and which could serve to enrich someone, including perhaps the political leadership of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u184	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Is there a third negative vote? I won't. Mrs. Daritkova, we continue with § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u185	Under § 29, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u186	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 29 by importer, supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 91 MPs: for 84, against 7, no abstentions. Paragraph 29 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u187	According to § 30 proposal from the National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov, § 30 to be dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30: 30. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 37a and 37b: Art. 37a. (1) Before issuing authorisation for carrying out medical activities under art. 46 for the new hospital care facilities for the Committee on Art. 46 32, para. 1 performs an assessment of the needs of the population of medical care based on the National Health Card. (2) To carry out the assessment under para. 1 an application shall be submitted to the Ministry of Health to which they apply: 1. information about investment intentions; 2. information on the type, structure and estimated number of beds for hospital treatment and medical activities by type and level of competence of the relevant structures; 3. an opinion from the respective Regional College of the Bulgarian Medical Union or the Bulgarian Dental Union on the territory of the area in which the medical establishment is established. (3) The documents under para. 2 shall be dealt with by the Committee under para. 1 which expresses a reasoned opinion within one month of receipt of the application. (4) Where additional information and/or documents are required, the Commission shall inform the applicant in writing to submit the relevant documents and information within a period specified by it. (5) The Commission under para. 1 gives a positive opinion where there is a need for the corresponding beds for hospital treatment and medical activities by species and levels of competence of the relevant structures in the territory of the relevant area defined in the National Health Card. (6) The Commission under para. 1 expresses a negative opinion when the existing number of beds for hospital treatment and medical activities in the territory of the area exceeds the specific needs of beds for hospital treatment and medical activities by species and levels of competence of the relevant structures defined in the National Health Card. (7) The opinions under para. 5 and 6 shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Health. (8) In case of negative opinion under para. 6 The new hospital care facility shall not be included in the National Health Card and may not enter into a contract with the National Health Insurance Fund until the update of the card according to art. 34, para. 2. Art. 37b. (1) In the order of art. 37a An assessment of the needs of the population of new medical activities to be carried out by hospital care facilities shall also be carried out. (2) To carry out the assessment under para. 1 The head of the hospital care facility shall submit an application to the Ministry of Health to which he applies: 1. information on the type of new medical activities; 2. the structures in which the activities under point 2. 1 will be carried out; 3. the estimated number of beds for hospital treatment and levels of competence of the relevant structures; 4. Opinion of the respective Regional College of the Bulgarian Medical Union or of the Bulgarian Dental Union. (3) In case of a negative opinion of the Committee on Art. 32, para. 1 to carry out new medical activities the latter shall not be included in the National Health Card and the medical institution shall not be able to enter into a contract with the National Health Insurance Fund for payment of these medical activities until the update of the card in accordance with art. 34. ) (a.k.a. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u188	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov. The Commission does not support it. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 5, against 44, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. And now I am voting on the Commission's edited text of the importer for § 30, according to the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 79 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraph 30 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u189	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission to establish a new § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39, para. 3 the words "Medical school" shall be replaced by "School school."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u190	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to establish a new § 31 with its respective content in accordance with the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 31 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u191	Under § 31, there is a proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova in § 31, b. I want them to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2 the words of the company's founding act, respectively, of the cooperative, and shall be deleted; (b) points 6 and 6a are repealed. 2. In para. 4 the number 3. A new para is being created. 5. On the day of submission of the application under para. 1 The regional health inspection shall send a request to the Bulgarian Medical Union, respectively to the Bulgarian Dental Union and to the Bulgarian Association of Health Care professionals for issuing certificates of entry in their registers of doctors, dentists, medical assistants, nurses or midwives, who will manage and/or work in the medical establishment, respectively in the department of art. 17a. The competent authorities shall issue the certificates within 5 days of receipt of the request. 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6. 5. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it the number s "14" is replaced by "10" and the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 concerning the placing of plant 6. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 and in it all over the words "Medical school" are replaced by "school." 7. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9 and in it the figure 8. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 10 and amended as follows: Within 10 days of carrying out the verification under para. 4 and receipt of the certificates under para. 5 and 7 or removal of the incompletes under para. 9 The Director of Regional Health Inspection shall issue a certificate for registration of the medical establishment or certificate for carrying out the medical activity under art. 2a............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u192	Statements? I won't. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Mrs. Atanasova withdraws the offer. Once again, I invite the MPs who will withdraw unsupported proposals to do so at the beginning before the rapporteur briefs us on the text they later withdraw. I shall put to the vote § 32 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 80 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u193	Under § 32, there is a proposal of the National Representative Desislava Atanasova............................................................................................ Two down. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal of the MPs Lachezar Ivanov, Krasimira Kovachka and Dimitar Shishkov has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kyuchukov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 32, Art. 41, para. 5 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: In § 32, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 out, t. In the case of the relevant editorial change, it becomes the content of § 32. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32, which shall become § 33: ................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) c. 3 the words "Medical school" shall be replaced by "School school"; (b) c. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 2. In para. 3 sentence first after the word 3. The creation of para. 5. By the decree under para. 4 shall also determine the order by which registered in accordance with Article 4. 40 a medical establishment may register a second or subsequent address of activity on the territory of a regional health inspection other than the regional health inspection of the initial registration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u194	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u195	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm sorry the Minister of Health isn't here. This § 32 confused all my notions of the logic of the adopted bill. One of the main ones was to stop the swarming of medical institutions when they were not needed, to respect the need for these hospitals, not the need for business plans of individuals, and suddenly with this paragraph, we create the possibility for medical institutions to register at a second and subsequent address. Not only to register at a second and subsequent address, but to register at a second and subsequent address in other areas of other regional health cards. For me, this is a perfect way to bypass the health card we just accepted. In addition, practical questions arise: who will pay from the second address in the territory of the other Regional Health Card of this establishment, whose main address is in another? These are things that surround, and I think it greatly minimizes for these hospitals the influence of the National Health Card.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u196	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u197	Thank you, Madam President. I did not intend to speak because the entire debate was exhausted on this text, but the MPs still have the right to be informed correctly and accurately. What is this about, fellow Members? I'm going to give a simple and understandable example to make it clear to the people who might be fooled by the fact that here, you see, the health card is being bypassed, and so on. Imagine the big Bulgarian resort Sunny Beach, which in a month and a half will be absolutely empty there are no people. However, from May until the end of September, tourists from all over the world are concentrated in this resort, sometimes exceeding 350 thousand people. Naturally, no one will open a medical facility, which for most of the time is in a populated area where there are no people, only these people.................. and other tourists are entitled to healthcare where they are going. It is for this reason that the right and the possibility of opening a second address is given to serve the Bulgarian hoteliers, in the first place to be able to meet the requirements to have medical facilities. Among other things, only two months ago we accepted art. 114 of the Labour Code, which regulates day-to-day contracts. In some settlements where mostly agriculture is carried out, groups of people are already focused. They should also have the right to access a health service. That is the point of this text, not that it will swarm and open new medical institutions........................ nothing like this. That is the point, so we will support the Commission's text. It is corrected, it is accepted, the whole philosophy is adopted and there is no point in such inaccurate tracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u198	Mr. Raynov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u199	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we from BSP left Bulgaria are also opposed because the whole logic of the Law is to impose one card, and here at one point begins disclosure of the second, third, fourth, fifth address. I was waiting for perhaps some practices to be addressed for just one day at this address, for the second day at the next address. Colleagues, these are practices that will pull the money from the Health Insurance Fund. In any case, where there is a need for registration, a new practice is registered, but with the same practice to rotate different addresses, we are still going by one method of exception. We have not yet adopted the Bill and we are already giving exceptions, exceptions, exceptions that break through the Bill and put their finger in the Minister's wheel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u200	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the motion to drop the item. 2, which was made by Mrs. Desislava Atanasova, identical with the proposal of Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs, and Emil Raynov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. We vote. Vote 88 MPs: 19 against 14, abstention 55. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Raynov and a group of Members of Parliament for the appropriate version of paragraph 1 of § 32, not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 14 against 53, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 33 on the report and the version of the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 79 against 8, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u201	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u202	We are voting § 34 on the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u203	Under § 34, there is a proposal by the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova to drop § 34. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 34, which becomes § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45, para. 2 all over the words "Medician school" shall be replaced by "School school."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u204	I don't understand why Dessislava Atanasova's proposal is not supported. The term is for art. 45, para. 1 and you are editorially offering art. 45, para. 2. This is essentially a new paragraph. It is not correctly written that, essentially, the proposal to drop art. 45, para. 1 is accepted. The importing paragraph shall be for the editing and modification of art. 45, para. 1. In the report you propose the Commission, art. 45, para. 2. Since there is no change in para. 1, in substance § 34 by importer is rejected in full. [[Reference between the rapporteur Daniela Daritkova and the President concerning § 34.]] The proposal was for a new paragraph. We're following up on the report. Are there any speeches? I won't. I vote on Dessislava Atanasova's proposal, which the Commission does not support. Vote 92 MPs: 11 against 4, abstention 77. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 35 in its version of the Commission report a whole new paragraph. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u205	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u206	We vote. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u207	Under § 36, there is a proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova: In § 36, item 1 shall fall. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov in § 36, including 1 in para. 1 point.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of Members of the National Assembly in § 36, p. 1: 1.b. He's out. 2.b. "B' and letter "in' shall be the letter "a' and the letter "b' shall be the same as the letter "a'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs: In § 36, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 1 point (s) to be amended as follows: (a) c. 3 words of certificate or certificate of qualification shall be deleted after the words of a diploma or diploma and added to the Master's degree in the specialities of art. 63, para. 1............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 3 words for a recognized specialty in medical informatics and health management or in health care economy are replaced by.. for the acquired educational and/or scientific degree, specialty or passed training to improve the qualification under art. 43 of the Law on Higher Education in the field of Health Management. (b) point 7 is repealed; (c) c. 8 words. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 5..... and the words........................................................................................... The following shall be replaced by 2. In para. 4 the number 3. A new para is being created. 5. On the day of submission of the application under para. 2 The regional health inspection sends a request to the Bulgarian Medical Union, respectively to the Bulgarian Dental Union, to issue certificates of entry in their registers to the members of the executive and control bodies of the medical establishment, which are doctors or dentists. The competent authorities shall issue the certificates within 5 days of receipt of the request. 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6. 5. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it the number The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, amending 6. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 And in it the words are said. 4 and 6' are replaced by "al'. 4 and 7................................................................................................ 1, 2, 4 and 6 One, two, four, five and seven. 7. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9 and in it the number 8. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 10. 9. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. 11 and amended as follows: If necessary, the Minister of Health may request verification of compliance with the requirements of para. 4 from the Medical Audit Executive Agency. 10. They're creating an al. 12 and 13: Within 20 days of receipt of the request under para. 11 The Medical Audit Executive Agency shall send to the Ministry of Health and to the Regional Health Inspectorate concerned a report of the verification carried out. (13) Regional health inspection in accordance with the findings of the inspection under para. 12 issue a new certificate of compliance under para. 4 and in the case of non-compliances identified gives prescriptions and lays down a time limit for their removal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u208	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u209	Madam President, Mr Minister, with this speech I would like not to take up the time of the MPs and before I make my declaration I would like to make some considerations. This bill sets extremely high criteria for medical institutions. This is a clear sign that our society wants to reform and reform all health institutions in the country accordingly. Raising the criteria for doctors, raising the criteria for the relevant hospitals, to the wards, to the clinics, respectively, is a sign that we want to raise our health care to a higher level. By raising it to a higher level, we'll do a better medical service. I would also like to say that Bulgaria, as a member of the European Union and the free movement of people who can be treated equally well both in some countries and in other countries, requires a uniformisation of the criteria of both work and management of medical institutions. At first glance, this paragraph does not mean anything to a hospital manager to hold a Master's degree. But this is an attitude towards people, to all those to whom we want to raise the criteria for knowledge, that one should be educated more and more. I would also like to draw your attention to one more fact. In the countries of the European Union, I have done my research, there are 105 higher schools, respectively under the Public Health and Health Management. Repeat, 105 schools! Forty-three countries of the European Union have accepted that one person, one doctor who wants to manage the medical establishment, must have the necessary competence and appropriate training. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the European Union, in order to run a medical establishment, you have to do at least three to four years of training in different countries, to pass exams and to take a Master's degree respectively. I say all these things because our requirements and our lives set increased criteria. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as early as next year, a large part of what we are viewing today as a matter of increasing the qualifications of doctors, of managers of medical institutions, will be imposed, but I am now in a hurry to say: are we ready to accept these high criteria? I believe that, to date, society has not yet been prepared. In this spirit, Madam President, Mr Minister, both I and all those who are co-conspirators of this bill, I would like to withdraw my proposal in a spirit of constructiveism and partnership. I believe that the time will soon come when I will actually stand before you again and make my arguments. For the record, anywhere until the end of the bill, as there are three more places, I declare that I withdraw my proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u210	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the proposals for dropping out in § 36, t. 1 letter (a) of the MPs Desislava Atanasova; Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov; Emil Raynov and a group of MPs who are essentially identical. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 96 MPs: 16 against 17, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 37 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u211	Under § 37, the proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u212	We vote. Vote 89 MPs: 88 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u213	Under § 38, there is a proposal from the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of Members of the National Assembly in § 38, item 38. 1 in the created new para. 2 of art. 49 and the expression "or by a designated deputy minister" is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 39.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u214	Statements? Here you go, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u215	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable Members, our proposal is also to abolish another burden on the Law. Of course, everywhere permission is signed by the Minister and it is within the authority of the Minister to order his deputy ministers who will have what powers with his order. So it is completely unnecessary in the Law to write:.. the Minister or his Deputy Minister. Everywhere the minister is responsible, and how he will administratively distribute down which deputy minister to sign, it is his power. Why do we have to write in the Law? Don't be so... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u216	- What's the line? I won't. I vote on Mr. Raynov's proposal and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 95 MPs: 11 against 52, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on § 38 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes § 39. Vote 89 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u217	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u218	We are voting § 40 on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u219	Please suspend the vote and declare the result. Vote 96 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 3. Paragraph 40, in accordance with the Commission's report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u220	Under § 40, there is a proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 41: ............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51, para. 3 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: 3 and 4 and after the words "instruction" of the "third" is added, Sections I-III and Chapter Four, Sections III and IV of the Health Act or of the "Surveillance Act."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u221	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of § 41 in accordance with the Commission's report. Please vote! Vote 85 MPs: 83 against 1, abstention 1. Paragraph 41 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u222	Under § 41, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 42. Under § 42, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs, which has also been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 43.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u223	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 42 and 43, in accordance with the Commission report, which shall support the texts of the importer. Please vote on paragraphs 42 and 43 on the Commission report. Vote 94 MPs: 92, none, abstention 2. Paragraphs 42 and 43 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u224	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 44: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. 2 the words "Medical school" shall be replaced by "School school."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u225	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 44 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Please vote! Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. A new § 44 was created in accordance with the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u226	Under § 43, there is a proposal by the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova to drop § 43. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposals of the MPs: Dimitar Shishkov and a group of MPs; of Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov; of Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs; of Emil Raynov and a group of MPs have been withdrawn. I think the proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs with an application was also withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u227	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u228	The proposal of the MP Ruslan Toshev has also been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words with a recognized specialty in medical information and health management or health care economy shall be replaced by an acquired educational and/or scientific degree, specialty or a passed training for improving the qualification under art. 43 of the Law on Higher Education in the field of health management. 2. In para. 3 after the word "help" the words "diagnostic consulting centres" shall be replaced by "diagnostic-consultative centres" and the words "single commercial companies and medical institutions under art. 10 "Self-owned trading companies"
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u229	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova, which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u230	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u231	Mrs. Atanasova withdraws it. I shall put to the vote § 45, in accordance with the Commission's report. Please vote. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 45 of the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u232	Under § 44, there is a proposal by the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova to drop § 44. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov § 44 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44, which shall become § 46. sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the words "injured' shall be replaced by "inflammation of financial results' or from which damage has been caused to "supplied'. 2. A t is created. 4. "4." in the event of non-compliance with the economic indicators set out in the management or control contracts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u233	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova, as well as the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov, which the Commission does not support. They're identical. Please vote! They voted 93 MPs: 23, against 18, abstention 52. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote § 46 in accordance with the Commission's report. Please vote! Vote 94 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 1. Paragraph 46 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u234	Paragraph 45. The proposals of the MP Desislava Atanasova, Dimitar Shishkov and a group of MPs, Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov, Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs, Emil Raynov and a group of MPs are supported by the Commission. The proposal by Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs was withdrawn during the meeting today. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 45, which shall become § 47: ss ss s s s s s In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65, para. 3 After the words "psychiatric assistance" the words "home for medical and social care" shall be placed and the words "home for medical care" in which medical supervision and specific care for children is carried out and the words "home for medical and social care" shall be replaced by "home for medical care" in which medical supervision and specific care for children is carried out and a centre for the complex services of children with disabilities and hospital diseases and the words "for every three years" shall be replaced by "every year."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u235	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 47, in accordance with the Commission's report. Please vote! Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. Paragraph 47 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u236	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 48: ............... 48............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 5, in sentences first and second, the words "in higher medical schools" shall be replaced by "in medical faculties and faculties of dental medicine of higher schools."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u237	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 48 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 91 MPs: 87, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 48, in accordance with the Commission's report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u238	The proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov has been withdrawn, Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs has been withdrawn, Emil Raynov and a group of MPs have been withdrawn. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Desislava Atanasova § 46, p. Five down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 46, which shall become § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 the words "Medical school" shall be replaced by "School school." 2. point 4 is amended as follows: "4." control the financial situation of the medical establishment and are responsible for its financial stability; 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The financial and medical plan shall be replaced by the management of the financial situation. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 the words "sources used' shall be replaced by "resources'. 5. A t is created. 11: "11." carry out other activities entrusted to them by management contracts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u239	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Dessislava Atanasova, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 15 against 12, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 49 in accordance with the Commission's report. 90 MPs voted: 87, none, abstention 3. Paragraph 49 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u240	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 50 and § 51: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71, p. 5 the words of the higher medical schools are replaced by the Faculty of Medicine and Faculty of Dental Medicine of the Higher Schools. § 51. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73 words "Medical school" shall be replaced by "School school."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u241	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 50 and 51, in accordance with the texts in the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 86 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraphs 50 and 51, together with their respective texts on the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u242	According to § 47, there is a proposal of the MP Ruslan Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 47, which shall become § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 80 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1: (a) A new item shall be created. 3: "3." Residents under the order of the ordinance under art. 181, para. 1 of the Health Act; b) the current t. 3 becomes t. 4. 2. In para. 2 the words "Medical school" shall be replaced by "School school." 3. In para. 3 is finally a comma and added as well as resident posts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u243	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of § 52, in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote § 52 on the Commission report. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 52 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u244	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1 the words of the high school of medical school shall be replaced by the higher school. 2. In para. 2 the words of the Higher Medical Schools shall be replaced by the Faculty of Medicine and the Faculty of Dental Medicine of the Higher Schools.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u245	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the creation of a new § 53 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. A new § 53 shall be established with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u246	Under § 48, there is a proposal of the MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: In § 48 in the created para. 4 in art. 81 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 54.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u247	Statements? Mr. Raynov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u248	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! It is about the regions where there is a shortage of colleagues and where the heads of regional health inspections determine the minimum hours to be worked there. Thus, the minimum of 10 hours a week, colleagues, is very unserious. This is either one day a week, or five days two hours a day, practically neither colleagues will work nor anyone will be able to control them. It's true that someone here will tell us about the day-to-day contracts, but I'll save that. So our suggestion is that the minimum is 20 hours to be serious practice. I hope you'll support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u249	Thank you, dear Mr. Raynov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't either. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposal of the MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: 22, against 53, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's text of the importer for § 48, which becomes § 54 in the Commission's report. We are voting § 54 on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 84 against 11, no abstentions. Paragraph 54 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u250	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 55.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u251	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 49, which is supported by the Commission and becomes § 55 in its report. Vote 94 MPs: 90, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 55 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u252	According to § 50 there is a proposal of the MP Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs: In § 50, art. 86, para. 1 after the words the banks concerned shall be subject to the word "voluntarily" shall be replaced by "compulsoryly." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 50, which becomes § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 86, para. 1 after the words "medico-social care" is added "complex services for children with disabilities" and "sickness."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u253	Statements? Here you go, Assoc. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u254	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! This statement, which I will make, concerns all the following paragraphs, where reference is made to the letter of credit. Everywhere it is said that accreditation is voluntary, it is mandatory only where there is a teaching activity. For me in this way, we take away the possibility of two things: to create some requirements for medical institutions and to control these requirements and their activities by the controlling authorities. Yes, it is true that, at this stage, accreditation is very clumsy, very slow, very resource-intensive. But by rejecting the accreditation, along with the dirty water, we throw away the baby. Obviously this is not accepted, is not profitable for many hospitals. But I think it was another way to give another lever to the Ministry of Health and Controls to monitor compliance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u255	Thank you, dear Mr. Kuchukov. Do you have any lines, Members of the House? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 92 MPs: 20, against 53, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's text for § 56. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. Paragraph 56 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u256	According to § 51, the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u257	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 57 by the Commission report. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. Paragraph 57 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u258	Under § 52, there is a proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova, which has been withdrawn. The proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs is supported by the Commission. The proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova made under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 is also supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 52, which shall become § 58: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 90 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2 words in health care, as well as students of all types of medical colleges are replaced by students in specialties from the professional field of health care. (b) c. 3 words are deleted. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Health, shall determine which of the medical institutions or their clinics or wards receiving a very good assessment for the activities under para. 1 acquire the rights of university hospitals/clinics or wards for the duration of the accreditation assessment. The proposal of the Minister of Health shall be made on the basis of a reasoned request from the relevant Rector of the Higher School, agreed with the head of the medical institution. 3. A new para is being created. 3: In the order of para. 2 The Council of Ministers may revoke the rights of a university hospital/clinic or ward before the expiry of the accreditation assessment period of the medical institution/clinic or ward. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it after the word "hospitals" is added........................................ and added............. and added.................................................... is 5. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words "Medical school" shall be replaced by "School school"; 6. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6................................................ According to § 53, the proposals of Desislava Atanasova, Dimitar Bayraktarov, Christian Mitev, Emil Raynov and a group of MPs have been withdrawn. The proposal of the MP Georgi Kyuchukov and a group of MPs has been withdrawn under this item. 1 and 2 and supported by the Commission in general. 3. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kuchukov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 53, which becomes § 59: ............... 59................................................................... Article 93 is amended as follows: Art. 93. The conditions, procedure and method of financing the training and the criteria to be met by the medical institutions under art. 91 and 92 shall be determined by regulations under Art. 92 respectively. 181 of the Health Act and under art. 87, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u259	We are voting in favour of § 58 and 59, according to the Commission report. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. Paragraphs 58 and 59 under the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u260	Under § 54, there is a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 54 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u261	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission proposal to reject the text of the importer under § 54. 99 MPs voted: 96, against 1, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal to reject § 54 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u262	According to § 55, the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova has been withdrawn. Proposal by Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Petrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 55, which becomes § 60: ........................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." basic repair or repair related to the reconstruction of the medical establishment; 2. In para. 4th sentence first the words..The words provided by the budget....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. In para. 7 the words "The budgetary provisions" shall be replaced by "the public or municipal budgets" and, in a sentence second, the words "the state" and "the municipalities" shall be added and the word "recorded" shall be replaced by "the record."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u263	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 60 in accordance with the Commission's report. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 60 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u264	Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 61: ......... 61..................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 101 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "higher medical schools" shall be replaced by "service schools." 2. In para. 3 words.............................................................................. 49, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official 3. In para. 4 the words "higher medical schools" shall be replaced by "service schools." Here I am making an editorial correction of our editorial proposal, namely in the version of the Commission, in point. 1 et c. 3 the words "supreme schools" to be replaced by the words "supreme schools."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u265	To go to the service and to become the higher schools. Okay. Statements, coworkers? I won't. I put to the vote Mrs Daritkova's editorial proposal, which has just been made. 1 et c. 3 texts "High Schools of Medicine" to read "High Schools." They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the full version of § 61 of the Commission report, in line with the decision we have just adopted. 90 MPs voted: 89 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u266	Proposal of the National Representative Ruslan Toshev: To create a new § 55a with the following text: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106 words outside the scope of compulsory health insurance shall be deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u267	Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u268	Madam President, honourable Members! This is about the ability of the state and municipalities to finance the medical institutions for the implementation of the programmes.......................................... For example, some screening programs and certain curative activities. In the current text, there is a requirement that this be beyond the scope of compulsory health insurance in order not to receive double funding. What is the idea that I have to suggest that this text be removed? Firstly, we know that currently the financing of healthcare is such that very often there are not enough directions. In addition, there are already whole groups who have dropped out of the health insurance system, and they also suffer from diseases that can have irreversible effects on their health. Furthermore, with the introduction of the basic and additional package, it is not clear when funding will be available for an illness that has come into the supplementary package. Nothing prevents municipalities, by their own decision, of their own responsibility and with money that are municipal, from providing programmes for patients for whom they have felt that they should be initiated or treated. During the Commission, I am sorry that he is not there, said he could not generally take on behalf of the state to finance something that was once financed by health insurance. But the text here is, in the first place, operative, they can finance, that is, by not wanting to finance the state, it will not. If the city wants to finance it, it's allowed to finance it. This is the idea of my proposal and I ask you to support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u269	- What's the line? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Toshev's proposal, the Commission does not support it. They voted 99 MPs: 26, Against 11, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u270	Paragraph 56. Proposals of: MP Desislava Atanasova; Dimitar Bajraktarov and Christian Mitev; Dimitar Shishkov and a group of MPs; Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs; Krasimira Kovachka and a group of MPs; Emil Raynov and a group of MPs who are supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 56 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u271	You have the floor, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u272	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! This text is actually one of several texts that blew up the Minister of Health's proposal, namely the thesis he set out to privatize medical institutions. Thank God, this text under the influence of various factors was, if not withdrawn, then at least the importer himself abdicates from it. If you notice, we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have no proposal to repeal § 56 by importer. This is because the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is not against privatisation, but it should not be done in the way it is proposed. We believe that privatization, proposed in such a dilettante way, is against the rules which enjoin the Privatization Act and post-privatization control. I mean, it's a bad offer. These are primos that are generally applied by populist politicians. Maybe there was a charge in the importer's motives when he did it. To propose a convincing text in a law, even more convinced to defend it before the Council of Ministers, even at the cost of verbal conflict with the Minister of Finance, to protect and support you, and after the introduction to the National Assembly to say, quote: "There is a time for war, there must be peace now, we believe it is a difficult political gaffe. Just for that, in order to point out that circumstance, I'm going out on this stand. After that, a gaffe squared is to say that you will withdraw this text or the Law and the Law again to enter this form at first reading and then the second. In general, there was no publicity! There was no publicity in the discussion of this case, there were no estimates, there was no adequate purpose. The assessment in the opinion of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control was devastating, I dare say, namely they said that the systematic place of these texts is in the Privatization Act and not here; that the new order of privatisation is questionable and the new order of privatisation is inappropriate, namely the decision of the Council of Ministers; that there is no mandatory collateral by the buyer and that it is in complete contradiction with the Privatization Act and post-privatization control. And notice, a state institution has proposed to the importer that this Law be withdrawn. This further aggravates our finding that the privatisation proposal is a political blunder. I have had the opportunity to state in committee, and I do so here, that sooner or later every factor in the Ministry of Health realizes that a reform in an area such as healthcare, namely a conservative area, cannot and is not within the power of a single entity. This requires consistency, consultation, a summary opinion of at least such an institution, such a forum as the Committee on Health. In this Commission, we have actually proved that when there is benevolence, kindness and search for effective purpose and therefore effective solutions, this can be done. Sooner or later, but better sooner, every factor in the Ministry of Health and, in principle, people who deal with health legislation are aware of this fact. I am pleased with the result that followed after the debates, and I fully agree with the opinion of the Committee on Health that this text is not supported. I also state it best on behalf of my political group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u273	First line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u274	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Kardzhaliev, in your speech you said several inaccuracies and tried to make political suggestions. The Minister has not withdrawn this text and it has not yet been withdrawn. There has been a proposal made by Members of the National Assembly that this paragraph be dismissed. The plenary room will decide whether or not to drop the first lie you've told. Especially was your suggestion under the mask that if you see a well-meaning need to take into account the DPS and decide when the reform should take place. You'll have a lot of health, but a lot of health! We have asked for this text to be dropped for the reason that while managing the triple coalition, it did not create a health card to analyse where there should be medical institutions and which of them would possibly go to privatisation. When the regional and national health cards are drawn up, they will polish the abandoned hospitals and then we will wonder what to do with them. They're still standing around in broken buildings that run hospitals. I can list as many in Strandja as you want, as in Yambol and Elhovo regions. Not to say that in your time you threw a few million dollars into a hospital for an old people's home in the village of Stefan Karadjovo and it stood like that and the millions disappeared. That's what this is about. However, we have spoken about this with the team of the Ministry to make a serious assessment and then the MPs to have an informed right of choice, to know why one thing will be voted on. Most importantly: to comply with the law: the money from privatization to go where it is written by law, namely in the Silver Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u275	Second line, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u276	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary! Dr. Kardzhaliev, yes, when he ran the triple coalition, he really didn't create the national health card, but instead he left a billion. 600 million. Reserve. After the three coalition, four years ruled GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u277	What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u278	They took the reserve and also didn't accept a national health card. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u279	Third line? A hole, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u280	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, I'm having trouble in my ass, because you're essentially not contradicting me. You didn't say anything to disprove my thesis. You're talking about inaccuracies. What's really inaccurate?! Is it a fact that at 18.30 on the day before the meeting of the Council of Ministers these amendments were tabled as a second version?! Is it a fact that the Minister of Finance reacted in a very sharp way? Even this is a euphemism, so the Prime Minister had to...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u281	He can't bring them in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u282	Read the transcript! To put all the pressure out. Is it a fact that the very next day the Prime Minister said: "We withdraw the text, Minister Moskov will withdraw the text for privatisation. " Where do you contradict me? As for the three coalitions and what were then intentions, actions and what decisions were made, so you will speak to me when Dr. Hassan Ademov becomes Minister of Health and it is in the hands of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[Noise and lines from PF.]] You know very well what the coalition format is. You know very well that your decisions, especially when they are extremely unsuccessful, not to say incompetent and undemocratic, are also not accepted by this coalition. This is the fate of the coalition format. Not everything you want can be realized. With regard to Dr. Raynov, thank you, you supported my thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u283	Any other speeches? Mr. Gokov. Colleagues, I call on us to follow the axis of what forms the majority, not to remind ourselves of the consistency of certain decisions. The important thing is that we unite and we come to these decisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u284	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! § 56 and a little further, § 64 raises a difficult problem, creating an opportunity to privatize medical institutions such as hospitals drop out of the ban list of the Privatization Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u285	It is not created, Mr. Gokov, because the proposal on the Commission report is for dropping this text by importer, so your speech may sound like a first reading, but for a second reading on the report it does not correspond to the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u286	It is not in line with the Commission's proposal, but as a text of the importer, I will therefore speak on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u287	However, it is not supported by the Commission. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Go ahead, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u288	In addition, Mr. Bayraktarov said that the House will be voted on and I agree with him. I would like to say that this proposal has been made without a single word to motivate the need for such a radical change. There is no clarity about the minister's motives to propose such an action. There is no clarity on the effects and criteria which hospitals will be able to privatize and how the nature of the medical activity will remain. I cannot understand how some who call themselves the reformers, under the reform, understand privatisation in the first place. We from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria and from all parliamentary groups who at first, who at second reading, definitely did not support the idea of dropping the moratorium on privatization of medical institutions. We now have to reject this untenable proposal in this House and in the second vote. I very much hope that all Members of the National Assembly will listen to the common sense of the members of the Committee on Health, not succumb to pressure and suggestion. There is nothing good about this proposal except that someone will benefit again from privatisation at the expense of the entire Bulgarian people. I cannot help but express my doubts that, behind our proposed health policy this time, through the bill under consideration, the intention of total privatization, which lies behind the well-meaning excuse for those working in the medical institutions not to become owners. I remember a long time ago about such privatization and its impact on the economy. Here are a few more motives and arguments for rejecting this proposal. It is proposed that the cash proceeds from the privatisation of the state participation in the capital of the medical institutions should enter the central budget and be allocated entirely to health policies and the proceeds from the privatisation of municipal participation in the capital of the medical institutions to enter the municipal budgets. However, privatisation revenues, according to the Privatization Act, go to the Silver Fund and cannot be used for health care. Another motive is that these proposals have led to serious concern among public and municipal hospital workers because they are aware that this is in no way in their favour. They are aware that a large part of hospitals will not be exaggerated if I say that there are profitable jobs in all of them, it is about private, higher financial results, and this leads them to avoid activities that burden the medical establishment, that is, severe cases, and public and municipal hospitals, take heavy cases that cannot be attributed to the profitable activity of the current health system. [[M Minister Peter Moskov's comments.]] Minister, no matter how much you replicate me, that's the fact. And I'm moving on. We are all aware that state and municipal medical institutions own serious land estates and a building fund, which in many cases is a serious condition, but at the expense of this it is in delicious places and in most cases in central urban areas. It is these properties that represent the privatization interest, and there is no doubt that their privatization is being artificially maintained in anticipation of future privatisation. It is difficult, Minister, that you will convince me that a state hospital cannot profit from an activity from which it earns the private at equal costs and the same price on a clinical path. Moreover, public and municipal hospitals have greater and more comprehensive capacity to carry out medical activities than most of private hospitals. And another very important thing is that the privatization of medical institutions will inevitably result in the dropping of the social functions of privatized hospitals. At the very first vote, we at BSP warned you that this proposal for privatization of medical institutions will lead to a future refusal of the state from its constitutional obligations to the health of Bulgarian citizens, to the inaccessibility of the poorer, to the strengthening of inequalities and to violation of the principles of equal access to health services. Because only the state can guarantee this equal access without seeking at all costs profit from treatment and care. So far, ideas for a smaller country and more market in healthcare have led to the ultimate commercialization of the system. Instead of developing the health system in the interest of the sick, we have only achieved a defeat of public health. [[Applause from GERB, lines: "Bravo, read it! "]] Members of Parliament, let us now categorically and unanimously reject the possibility of privatizing state and municipal hospitals. Thank you. [[Applause and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u289	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u290	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues, Mr. Gokov, do you think that since we reject the reformist of this law, the minister has reason to celebrate and rejoice, as he is currently demonstrating? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u291	Second line? Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u292	Is the back gonna be there to read it? It'll be interesting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u293	We'll see about that, folks. Wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u294	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! It's interesting to me that I'm causing you some joy. [[crowd cheering]] But the things we're talking about are absolutely serious. And Mr. Raynov, and Mr. Minister, I say these things because Mr. Kardzhaliev said that the Minister has not given up his intention. He's planning to move on later in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u295	Bad guy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u296	I'm not saying he's a bad man, Mr. Secretary. [[Happy tidings.]] I'd even say I like him and that he's proactive. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u297	Colleagues, please return to the Bill, not to personal sympathies between Mr. Gokov and Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u298	But all his good initiatives only go somewhere. I think with his good initiatives he's doing more damage to health care than making some reform in the right direction. We must clearly say everything here on the issue of privatization of medical institutions so that there are no future intentions to put on the table, as I said just now, at six to fifteen, not to pass through the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation and to try to put even coalition partners in this governance to a done fact, because I remember that at first reading, for example, the GERB Group in the Committee on Health supported these texts. I don't know what reason they had between first and second readings, so they went over the option of not supporting the text. There's nothing funny about what I'm saying. There is no laughing matter, because in Bulgarian healthcare things are not funny, but tragic.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u299	Thank you. Any other MPs? Procedure Mr. Iankov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u300	Madam President, Mr Minister, colleagues! I'm using the ability to conduct a procedure. All of you in this Chamber know that the Rules of Procedure are being violated by the harsh intervention of the speaker's speech by the President of the sitting. Madam President, on your own, I assume you have understood that you have broken the Rules, and if you are still in a relaxed mood, then you can give in to Mr. Glauchev, who has shown that he has not forgotten the Rules, but let the speakers make their views known and let only the minister's manual articulation remain, so that we can conclude for a short time the Law under consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u301	Mr. Iankov, if you check with the Rules of Procedure and the facts, you will see that the President of the National Assembly has ceased his vacation on August 15th. So it is extremely incorrect of you to make similar moves from the parliamentary tribune. That the mood in the hall is lifted is due entirely and solely to the well prepared speech of Mr. Gokov. Are there any other MPs who would like to take a stand? Here you go, Mrs. Kovachka.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u302	Was that a mockery of Mr. Hafuzov's vacation?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u303	To whom?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u304	To Hafuzov. It's his patent.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u305	This concept has already gained civility and I think there should be praise to me for mentioning it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u306	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! I, as a Commissioner and as a Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Centre, would like to state our position as well. We have seen from the speeches of colleagues before me that the problem of privatisation unites everyone to drop out at this stage, but, of course, this is a topic to come. We tabled a bill and a proposal to drop for the following reasons: firstly, because there was no broad discussion; secondly, because there was no detailed analysis of the risks that were hidden and the final result; thirdly, because there was no national health card designed to show whether the needs of the population were covered. So at this point, we believe that this should be dismissed, as did colleagues from the Commission, but the problem remains. When the national health card is ready and satisfying the needs of the population is guaranteed, perhaps the issue will stand again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u307	Thank you, Mrs. Kovachka. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the Commission, which supports the proposals of the Members of the National Assembly for the removal of § 56 by importer and proposes that § 56 be rejected. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 102 MPs: 99, against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u308	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 57, which shall become § 62. The proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs under § 58 has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 58, which shall become § 63.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u309	Anblok, we vote on paragraphs 57 and 58 by importer, which become paragraphs 62 and 63 respectively. They voted 101 MPs: 97, none, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u310	Under § 59, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 59, which shall become § 64: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / /
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u311	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 64 on the report in the version of the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u312	Under § 60, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 60 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u313	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 60 by importer. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u314	Under § 61, there is a proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova. The proposal has been withdrawn under points 1 and 3. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 In § 61, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 to be absorbed. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 2. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 61, which shall become § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 after the word "help" the words "his capacity" shall be replaced by the "psychiatric health centre," the centre for skin-venerical diseases and the complex oncological centre and their capacity. 2. Point 10 is amended as follows: ..10. High-tech diagnostic and treatment methods are the methods defined as high-tech in the methodology under art. 29, para. 6................................................ 3. A t is created. 11: "11." New medical activities are medical activities in specialities in which the medical institution has not been active, as well as medical activities in specialities in which the medical institution is active, but is changing its volume (a new structure is created in the same speciality or an increase in the level of competence of the existing establishment), including high-tech methods of diagnosis and treatment and the associated with their application of high-tech medical equipment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u315	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova in its unsupported part. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Desislava Atanasova under the heading. 2. Please vote. They voted 98 MPs: 11 against 6, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the wording of § 65, as amended by the Commission in its report. Vote 98 MPs: 92, none, abstention 6. Paragraph 65 of the Commission's report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u316	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u317	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the division supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The name of the division shall be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u318	Paragraph 62 - Mr. Dimitar Bajraktarov signaled that he was withdrawing the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 62, which shall become § 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u319	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 62, which in the Commission's report is § 66. We are voting § 66 on the Commission report. 110 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 66 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u320	According to § 63 there is a proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1, t. 2 et c. 3 (b). The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 4. In Paragraph 63 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 4 to be Proposal of the National Representative Krasimira Kovachka and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Christian Mitev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MPs Lachezar Ivanov, Krasimira Kovachka and Dimitar Shishkov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 1 et c. 2 letter "in". The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 letters......................................................................................................................... Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 63, which shall become § 67: ................. In the Health Insurance Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58, para. 1 the words "hospital institutions' shall be replaced by "hospital establishments or their associations'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 59th para is (a) Contracts under para. 1 may not be concluded with new hospital care establishments or for new medical activities carried out by hospital care establishments under art. 37a, respectively under art. 37b of the Law on Medical Institutions, for which the Committee on Art. 32, para. 1 of the Law on Medical Institutions has expressed a negative opinion. Dear Mr. President, I am also making a new editorial proposal for § 63, which becomes § 67. I've given it up. I will now introduce the MPs to the proposal: ............................................... 2: 1. The previous text of t. 2 becomes a letter. 2. The following point (b) is inserted: (b) the creation of para. 14: For the diseases for which in the basic package under art. 45, para. 2 is provided for the provision of complex treatment (insuring each individual part of the overall treatment process), the Director of the RHIF concluded contracts only with medical institutions or their associations that provided the complex treatment of these diseases. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 of § 67 the words "al." 1s are to be dropped out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u321	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov, which is not supported by the Commission in its section on this. 4. They voted 118 MPs: 15 against 27, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Daniela Daritkova, as presented to you by the parliamentary platform. They voted 106 MPs: 95, against 5, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the final text of § 67, together with the proposal we have just made and adopted, presented by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Daniela Daritkova. Vote 110 MPs: 102, against 3, abstention 5. Paragraph 67 has been accepted. We must now return to § 23, which becomes § 24 in the Commission report. 2, which we postponed until the adoption of § 67.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u322	Dear Mr President, in relation to the already adopted text of § 67, I am making an editorial proposal under § 23, which becomes § 24, namely: Point 2 is amended as follows: "2." the so far al. 2 becomes para. 4 and in the end it is added.......................................................................................... It's 34a. 2. A t is created. 3: "3." The creation of para. 5. supérieure d'état d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agretret d'Agret d'Agretret d'Agret d'Agret d'Agret d'Atret'Acret'At'Agret'Agret'. 4 shall be financed by funds from the state budget or the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and subject to the conditions of art. 59, para. 1 and para. 14 of the Insurance Act. "3." A t is created. 4. "4." the so far al. 3 becomes para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u323	Statements? I won't. I'm voting on it. Paragraph 24 of the Commission report. We are voting on the editorial proposal that has now been presented to you from the stand by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. They voted 111 MPs: for 101, against 7, abstention 3. Paragraph 2 of Paragraph 24 is adopted as presented to you by the tribune by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. I put to the vote the entire text of § 24 together with the newly voted editorial proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova. We are voting § 24 in its final version after the newly adopted editorial proposal for a point. 2. They voted 102 MPs: for 94, against 7, abstention 1. Paragraph 24 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u324	The proposals of the MPs Desislava Atanasova; Dimitar Bajraktarov and Hristian Mitev; Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov; Emil Raynov and a group of MPs are supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 64 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u325	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 64 by importer to be rejected. Vote 108 MPs: for 107 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraph 64 by importer is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u326	The proposal of the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Hristian Mitev has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of Members of the National Assembly in Transitional and Final Provisions § 65 shall be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kyuchukov and a group of MPs: In § 65: 1. in para. 1 words within a period of six months shall be replaced by a period of one year; 2. para. 5 to be dropped; 3. para. 7 is amended as follows: The decisions of the Committee on Art. 7 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 33, para. 1 of the LPD may be The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 65, which shall become § 68: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, the Committee on Art. 32, para. 1 based on the analysis carried out under art. 30, para. 2 evaluates and expresses an opinion on the possibilities for providing complex treatment (at the same time providing each part of the overall treatment process) of the patient in the existing mental health centres, centers for skin-veneric diseases and complex oncology centres. (2) The Commission under para. 1 shall notify its opinion to the Minister of Health, as well as to the relevant manager of the mental health centre, the centre for skin-venceral diseases or the complex oncological centre, or to the respective owner of the centre, who may take appropriate action under this law to carry out complex treatment of patients. Dear Mr President, in connection with the already adopted text of § 67, I am proposing an editorial correction of the text which I have just read, namely: the word "at the same time" to fall out of the text of para. 1: ..complex treatment (suspecting each individual part of the overall treatment process) of the patient....................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u327	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u328	Because in the previous texts, I explain to the MPs, we have adopted such a definition of complex treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u329	Do you have any comments? Here you go, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u330	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! This text was one that caused tension especially in these three types of mental health care facilities, complex oncology centres and centers for skin-venerical diseases. As a final result, I support the modified text by the Committee on Health. We did not adopt at the beginning and in many places we said our considerations about the imperative approach in which such functional associations, consortiums, or infusions should exist. We felt that these centres, which I said, have a role to play in Bulgarian healthcare, an effective role, and that the eradication of all or some of them would not benefit the entire process in terms of the services of the patients in them. We also considered, and we also convinced the Commission that, in the proposal from the importing text, it was the imperative approach that would lead to many problems of accounting, financial and even legal order, problems of the type of responsibility of the individual components in the joint establishments, and ultimately the most important criterion, the most important factor, a negative impact on the treatment of the patients covered. We support the Commission's opinion, which was expressed a little while ago, and as far as I understand it, the Minister of Health accepts this idea that the relevant committees should give advice and, in the opinion of the management, there is an opportunity as a hypothesis for the United States where there are relevant factors why such association would lead to an even better service of the covered contingent by patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u331	Thank you, dear Dr. Kardzhaliev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Assoc. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u332	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will supplement Dr. Kardzhaliev's statement that the new text, which does not provide imperatives for unity, satisfied everyone in the Commission and I think we should accept it. In this sense, my proposals under paragraphs 5 and 7 are included. Since the deadline for drawing up the National Health Card has been shortened, the logic for the changes in § 2 that I have proposed is hereby suspended, and I withdraw them from the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u333	Thank you, dear Mr. Kuchukov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, we from BSP left Bulgaria are also satisfied with the received consensus text, which was another member who rewritten the members of the importer. We withdraw our proposal and support the proposed text, supported by the Commission, after the imperative obligation of unification of the structures is dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u335	Thank you, dear Dr. Raynov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Thank you for saving me the effort to put two unsupported proposals to the vote by the Commission. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova, made by the parliamentary tribune, for dropping the word at once, after the clamp is opened in para. 1 of § 68. In the clamp remains the provision of each separate part of the overall treatment process. I think it's impossible to treat them at the same time. Please vote on the proposal made by Dr Daritkova from the parliamentary platform. Vote 98 MPs: 96 against 1, abstention 1. Dr. Daritkova's proposal, made from the stands, has been accepted. I put to the vote § 68 in its final version on the Commission, together with the newly adopted editorial amendment proposed by Dr Daritkova from the stands. Please vote. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 68 has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u336	According to § 66 there are proposals of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and Hristian Mitev, Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov, Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs, Emil Raynov and a group of MPs who are supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 66 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u337	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 66 by importer. Voted 103 MPs: 99, against 3, abstention 1. Paragraph 66 by importer is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u338	According to § 67 there are proposals of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and Hristian Mitev, as well as Emil Raynov and a group of MPs. They're withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 67, which shall become § 69.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u339	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 69 on the Commission report, which is indeed the adopted text of the importer for § 67. We are voting § 69 on the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 69 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u340	According to § 68 there are proposals of the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Hristian Mitev, of Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov, of Emil Raynov and a group of MPs. They're withdrawn. The proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 68, which shall become § 70: ...... 70......................................................................... (1) The Minister of Health shall establish appropriate medical standards under art. 6, para. 1 in accordance with the requirements for levels of competence under art. 26c within one month of the entry into force of this law. (2) The centers of mental health, the centers of skin-venerical diseases and complex oncology centres shall bring their activities into line with the requirements of art. 26c and submit documents to amend the authorisations issued for medical activities to the Minister of Health within one month from the entry into force of the relevant medical standard under para. 1. (3) State fees for the registration of changes under para. 2 is not due. Under § 69, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The proposal is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 69, which shall become § 71: seventy-seventy-seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six. (1) The methodology under art. 29, para. 6 shall be validated within one month of the entry (2) The regional health cards shall be drawn up and the National Health Card shall be adopted in accordance with this law within two months of the validation of the methodology under para. 1. (3) In the event that representatives of municipalities are not designated when appointing the committees for the preparation of the regional health cards under the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration within 15 days of receipt of a request for their designation, the respective mayors or persons authorised by them shall be deemed to be representatives of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u341	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote Articles 68 and 69 by importer, which, after the amendment of the Commission, shall become its report as Articles 70 and 71. Please vote. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 70 and 71 of the Commission report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u342	Paragraph 70 "A proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 70 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u343	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal § 70 to be rejected. Vote 100 MPs: 98 against 1, abstention 1. Paragraph 70 by importer is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u344	Paragraph 71? a proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Desislava Atanasova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 71 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u345	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 71 by importer. They voted 105 MPs: for 104, against 1, no abstentions. Paragraph 71 by importer is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u346	Paragraph 72 "A proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 72 be rejected. Paragraph 73 "A proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 73 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u347	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject paragraphs 72 and 73. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraphs 72 and 73 by importer have been rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u348	Paragraph 74.. a proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 74, which shall become § 72: ................. Paragraph 67, t. 2 shall enter into force from 1 January 2016 Dear Mr President, in relation to the already adopted texts and amendments to § 67, I am editing this proposal, namely the final version of § 72 to sound like this: 3 and § 67, t. 2 shall enter into force from 1 January 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u349	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Dr. Daniela Daritkova, with her proposed editing. Please vote on the version: "Paragraph 72, § 24, t. 3 and § 67, t. 7 shall enter into force from 1 January 2016 Please vote. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The amendment to § 72 has been adopted, and thus the Law of the Second Voting. [[Applause.]] The word is made by the Minister of Health Petar Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u350	First, without saying what Mr. Tsvetanov's question was, my answer is not, Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Radio.]] I would like to thank the Members of the National Assembly for adopting this Law. A majority united around a management programme has indeed acted this way and has shown it today. I also thank the MPs from the opposition who had their constructive remarks. The only moment that I was worried today during the debates under the Law was during Mr. Gokov's speech that MPs who do not want to celebrate September 9th will vote on what we have agreed that we will see at a further stage about privatisation. Thanks again! Good work and excuse me if with mode of action, I have done so that at certain stages of the adoption of this Law we have had differences and differences. All's well that ends well. I would like to say two more words: thank you to the entire team of the Ministry who is working. Let me say that I especially thank the Director of the Directorate of Medical Activities. It is good for the MPs to know that the laws they vote implement them a good, honest and working administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-09.u351	Thank you, dear Minister. I also thank all my colleagues who participated in the adoption of the Bill. Tomorrow we continue with the first vote on the Tobacco and Tobacco Bill. Importers shutvi Mestan and a group of MPs on 28 January 2015, and a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act. Importers on 30 January 2015, Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourning today's meeting. We'll start tomorrow at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
