ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u1	There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. We are continuing with the scheduled items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u2	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u3	Before the procedure, the multimedia you see, configured in plenary, is at the request of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for the Annual Report on the Academy's activities, which is included for discussion in our weekly program. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when defining the weekly programme for the work of the National Assembly, the Chamber adopted the proposal made by the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria for inclusion in the programme the interpreted Law on Tax on Individuals' Income. In order to fulfil the will of the House, I am making a procedural proposal that it be the first point of today's sitting so that it can be examined essentially and adopted before the end of the tax campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u5	Such a proposal was made in determining the weekly programme and the order of the items on the agenda and was rejected by a deliberate decision of the plenary. Mr. Boychev, make a reference, we have had such a decision in plenary since Wednesday. Let's continue with: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT AND COOPERATION BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND HIS MEMBER STATES, OF THE ONE COUNTRY, AND MONGOLIA, OF THE OTHER COUNTRY. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The reports from the committees to which the ratification law is assigned have been received. First we will hear the report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, No 502-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. At its regular meeting held on 18 March 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, tabled by the Council of Ministers. Mr. Borislav Kostov, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Bilateral Relations, took part in the Commission meeting at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this Draft is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the abovementioned Framework Agreement, signed on 30 April 2013 in the city of Ulan Bator, Mongolia, by the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Mongolia. The main objectives of the Framework Agreement include partnership and cooperation between the European Union and Mongolia in a number of areas including: countering the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, combating terrorism and organised crime, justice, financial and economic issues, trade and tourism, scientific and technical development, agriculture, transport, culture and media, health, etc. It should be borne in mind that with the ratification of this Framework Agreement, our country will be able to participate fully and actively in the implementation of the European Union's policy towards third countries. Last but not least, the long-standing friendly relations between Bulgaria and Mongolia, established at the beginning of 1950, will be updated and adapted to the requirements of the European Union in the 21st century. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds unanimously proposed by 15 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for the ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Mongolia, on the other hand, No 502-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u7	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. We will now hear the report from the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you go, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, was tabled by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. The Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, became, signed on 30 April 2013, provides for cooperation in the field of countering the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery, the pursuit of serious crimes which give rise to international concern, the fight against terrorism, sustainable development, trade and investment, justice, freedom and security, human rights, financial services, economic policy, good governance of taxation, industrial policy and small and medium-sized enterprises, tourism, information society, media, science and technology, energy, transport, education and culture, the environment, agriculture, livestock, fisheries and rural development, health, employment and social affairs, statistics, civil society, state modernisation and public administration, disaster risk management, etc. The Agreement is expected to raise relations between the European Union and Mongolia to a new level and to facilitate the activation of bilateral exchanges in the above areas. The ratification of the Framework Agreement would contribute to the full participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the formation and realization of the European Union's policy towards third countries, as well as the setting up of our relations with Mongolia on the basis of the requirements of modern Europe. At a regular meeting held on 11 March 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Ms. Katya Todorova. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which 15 votes are proposed by the National Assembly, on the grounds of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt the Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u9	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, No 502-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. At its meeting held on 11 March 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Tsveti Romanska With this Bill, the National Assembly is proposed to ratify the Framework Agreement above by law. The Parties to the Agreement reaffirm their attachment to democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as to the rule of law. The Framework Agreement does not have a direct and/or indirect impact on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. It aims to strengthen political dialogue and strengthen economic relations between the Parties on all issues of common interest. The Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, will contribute to the rise of relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and Mongolia to a level of enhanced partnership, including in the political, economic, social and cultural sphere. In view of the above and as a result of the vote being taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 15 votes for the European Union and its Member States, without the opposition, and the abstentions, proposes to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, No 502-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We also need to hear the report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u12	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, No 502-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. At its regular meeting on 25 March 2015, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part. The meeting was attended by Borislav Kostov, Director General of the Directorate-General for Bilateral Relations and Natalia Misheva, Head of the Eastern Asia, Australia and Oceania Department at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The bill presented by Mr. Borislav Kostov provides for cooperation in countering the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery, the pursuit of serious crimes, the fight against terrorism, sustainable development, economic policy, investment, trade, statistics, tourism, financial services and taxation, transport and information society, energy, justice, freedom and security, human rights, media, education and culture, health, agriculture and agriculture, environment, labour and social policy, foreign policy, civil society, public administration. Ratification of the Framework Agreement would contribute to our country's full participation in the implementation of EU policies towards third countries and would also facilitate the exchange between the two countries in these areas. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, No 502-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. The debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? I won't. I put to the first vote a bill ratifying the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. They voted 141 MPs: 141, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Tanchev, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u14	Thank you, Madam President. On the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the bill be reviewed today and by a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u15	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put the proposal to the vote. 130 MPs voted: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u16	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part A single member. It ratifies the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, signed in Ulan Bathor on 30 April 2013.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u17	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law with its article, the only one proposed by the rapporteur Mr. Tanchev. They voted 132 MPs: 132, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Once we have adopted this important point of cooperation between the European Union and Mongolia, I ask you as a second item on the agenda to include the interpretive law under the Law on the taxation of personal incomes, which concerns 272 thousand. Bulgarian citizens. Syndicates also raise the question because after the scandalous statement of the spokesperson of the National Revenue Agency not to submit declarations, people cannot benefit from their rights, that is, the state administration is doing everything possible to save some money. Please include this item as the second item of today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u19	Is there a reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u20	Dear colleagues, the problem is the people who are importers of this change, that they have so proposed it and such texts have made that they themselves are doubting them at the moment. The fact is that a few hundred people have taken advantage of these texts by our information from the National Revenue Agency. For us it is clear the following: the texts are poorly written by BSP during the Oresharski office. You have to admit that, fellow Members. So now are people's problems because of illiterately written texts. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] My procedure, Madam President, is that we will not support this BSP proposal and we call on this House not to support it. [[Comments from GERB and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u21	I put to the vote Mr. Mikov's proposal as point two of today's plenary session to discuss the first vote of the Bill for interpretation of art. 22b of the Law on personal income taxes with importers Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. They voted 146 MPs: 56 against 66, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, once again I draw your attention to the fact that we are talking about 272 thousand Bulgarian citizens working on a minimum wage...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u23	How many have they taken advantage of so far?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u24	...and tens of thousands of seasonal workers. It's about BGN 408. in each of these families. Four hundred and eight breads from the table of these poor Bulgarians! [[(SIGHS FROM GERB: Eee!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u25	Populists!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u26	You may call, but in your families you do not have to think about BGN 408. Annually. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u27	Why didn't you do it right?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u28	Leave the arguments what has been done and what has not been done. Put the Law into consideration because it turns out that today's majority together with the NRA wants to harm these people. It was no accident that the scandalous statement of the spokesperson of the NRA should not submit declarations, because the Law was bad in Martin Dimitrov style, instead of the law to be applied.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u29	Fact, fact!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u30	When the NRA says it's bad, let's do it so it can be applied. Or obviously this majority, which rejects the viewing of the Law, wants to take these BGN 408. from 272 thousand Bulgarian families. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u31	It's a re-vote. Vote 154 MPs: 62, against 71, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to: Reporting on the implementation of the Privatization Process and the follow-up of the Privatization Process 1 JANUARY 2014 The Agency for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control is the importer. A report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism has been submitted together with the Draft Decision. Mr. Kanev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u32	On the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that we vote for admission to the Chamber of Mr. Emil Karanikov.. Executive Director of the Privatization Agency and Post-Privatization Control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u33	There's no opposite opinion. I'm voting on the motion for admission to court. Vote 78 MPs: 63, none, abstention 15. There is no quorum, the proposal is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u34	{\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} on the report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in the period 1 January 2014 - 30 June 2014, No 404-00-6, submitted by the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control on 4 December 2014. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee at its meeting held on 21 January 2015 examined and discussed the Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in the period 1 January 30 June 2014, No 404-00-6, submitted by the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control on 4 December 2014. The meeting was attended by: Emil Karanikolov, Executive Director of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency, Rusi Statkov and Sevjan Sudkev, members of the Supervisory Board of the Agency, Lachezar Borisov, Head of Department of State Participation Management and Restructuring. The report was presented by Mr. Emil Karanikolov. In the first six months of 2014, the activities of the Privatisation and Post-Privatization Control Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) were aimed at setting up an organisation and implementing the decisions of the Council of Ministers, as well as all the resulting activities for changing the structure of the Agency. The reduction in the number of staff by 40 people, as well as the activities of moving the property and organising the Agency's work at a new address, have led to delays in the implementation of planned privatisation and post-privatization control activities. All preparatory activities related to the sale of 56 privatisation projects were carried out during the period. 20 procedures for the award of legal analyses, information memorandums and privatization assessments for sites of the privatization resource have been carried out. Privatization assessments and information memorandums for 11 sites were accepted. 6 sites are prepared and offered for privatisation sale through public auctions. The 32nd centralised public tender was held on which stock packages of 16 companies were offered for sale. In parallel, the Agency has carried out marketing events in relation to the privatisation procedures of 27 other sites. The Agency reports three privatisation sales with agreed payments of BGN 1 333 700, including compensatory instruments of BGN 1700. at nominal value. The main reasons for the small number of privatization sales remain: the trend of reduced investment activity in the country; delay or delay in privatisation procedures at the request of the competent authorities; the characteristic characteristics and deterioration of the financial and economic situation of the proposed sites. The list of commercial companies with State participation in capital is updated in the privatisation of which payment with non-cash payment is allowed. With the amendments to the list 80 companies have been deleted due to already concluded privatisation transactions, satisfied restitution claims, or infusion or deletion. In other 19 companies, the amount of State participation has been adjusted. For shares in the capital of new three companies, payment with non-cash payment is allowed. The resources of sites to be privatized on 30 June 2014 are composed of: 19 companies with over 50 percent State participation, 6 units and 70 minority shares/shares owned by the State in the capital of commercial companies. The resource also includes 63 properties of private state property offered for sale by different district managers and 4 sites representing shares/shares owned by commercial companies with more than 50 percent State participation in capital in other commercial companies. The activity of monitoring the implementation of the parameters of the concluded privatisation contracts shall be specified by analysing 26 accounts of 20 privatisation contracts and by drawing up 102 notifications to buyers of the privatisation contracts for the submission of all the reporting documents necessary to demonstrate the fulfilment of the commitments entered into by the contracts for 2013. During the reporting period, actions have been carried out in the formation of 15 executive cases before private judicial contractors. On the Agency's account, payments have been made on effective judgment decisions on 11 executive cases. As a result of post-privatization control, payments were received to the Agency on deferred contributions from the price and penalties, as well as payments in court and enforcement cases for penalties and interest, totaling BGN 1 039 413. As of 30 June 2014 subject to control regarding the payment of the price are 198 privatisation contracts. The total number of contracts subject to control in respect of various social commitments and other obligations, including the implementation of investment programmes, is 116. During the period 1 January 2014 30 June 2014 the Agency received and accounted for cash proceeds from the activities of privatisation and post-privatization control at a total value of BGN 2 352 454, including payments in compensatory instruments at a nominal value of BGN 1700. To cover the costs of privatisation and post-privatization control are spent funds of BGN 1 784 212, representing 44.09 per cent of the established cost ceiling for 2014. After the discussion is concluded and the vote with results:....... 17 The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to accept the Reporter for the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in the period 1 January, 30 June 2014, No 404-00-6, submitted by the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control on 4 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u35	Report the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u36	I also propose a decision that we are going to vote on: Project! DECISION on the post-privatization and post-privatization control process in the period 1 January 2014 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 22d, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control and Art. 87, para. 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts the report for the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in the period 1 January 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u37	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. In the report you read para. Ten, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u38	Ten, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u39	There's been a technical error in the written project. Debates are open. Are there any MPs who wish to take account of the Privatisation and Post-Privatization Control Agency's report or the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee's report? I don't see any enthusiasm for debate. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the draft decision on the Review on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in the period 1 January. 30 June 2014. 90 MPs voted: 88, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Next item: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION TO PROTECT PERSONAL DATA FOR 2014 Importer: Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. A report came in from the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not make a procedural proposal for admission into this Chamber. Today, as I see it, you don't have that kind of desire. ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Activity Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2014, No 520-00-13, submitted by the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data on 29 January 2015. At its regular meeting on 11 March 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Annual Activity Report of the Personal Data Protection Commission for 2014, No 520-00-13, submitted by the Personal Data Protection Commission on 29 January 2015. The report was presented by Maria Mateva, Member of the Commission for Personal Data Protection, describing the overall activity of the Commission for the reporting period. The President of the Commission Atanas Atanasov expressed his positive opinion on the work of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data during the reporting period and gave the floor to the members of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order for Opinions and Questions. People's representative Mustafa Karadaiy took part in the report presented and asked questions related to the registration of personal data controllers and the administrative practice of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data in the face of sanctions. Ms. Mateva pointed out that the Commission's administrative practice complies only with the Rules for the Implementation of the Personal Data Act, with the objective and impartial approach at the heart of any infringement found by a personal data controller. As a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order unanimously supported the submitted Report on the activities of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2014, No 520-00-13, submitted by the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data on 29 January 2015, and proposed to the National Assembly the following draft decision: DECISION adopting the Review of the Activity of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2014 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the activities of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the Annual Activity Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2014, No 520-00-13, submitted by the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data on 29 January 2015. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The annual activity report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data has been adopted unanimously. The next item is: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION FOR PREVENTATION AND CONFLICATION OF INTERESTS FOR 2014 Importer: Commission for the Prevention and Detection of Conflict of Interest on 27 February 2015. The opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce us to Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll introduce you to: "COMMODITY" on an annual report on the Commission's activity on the prevention and detection of a conflict of interest for 2014, No 520-00-17 submitted by the Commission on 27 February 2015 to prevent and establish a conflict of interest. At its meeting held on 11 March 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined the Commission's Annual Activity Report on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest for 2014. The meeting was attended by the members of the Commission s Katya Staneva, Mr. Nikolay Nikolov and Mr. Pascal Boyadzhiyski. The Commission's annual activity report was presented by Mr. Nikolay Nikolov. He noted that the report follows the structure of the three previous Commission annual reports submitted to Parliament and tracks the main aspects of its activity: the activity of establishing conflict of interest; administrative criminal activity; preventive activity and international activity. The number of proceedings closed in 2014 was close to the number of cases closed in 2013. In 2014 the number of files solved within the two-month period increased to 35%, compared to 2013, when it was 11%. In 2014, the Commission adopted 366 decisions, of which 99 were essentially to establish or not to resolve a conflict of interest and 267 were to cease production. 84 meetings were held and 44 opinions on the application of the Law were discussed. In comparison, 380 proceedings were completed in 2013 and 167 decisions were adopted on the substance and 213 decisions for termination of proceedings, 96 meetings were held and 53 opinions on the application of the Law were discussed. The number of cases and termination resolutions with which the administrative and criminal proceedings have been completed is 140. The number of cases is almost twice as high as the one for 2013. In 2014, a practice was established to require information on the declarations submitted under the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest by persons holding senior positions in the executive and legislative powers. Active activity has been carried out to prevent conflict of interest, with numerous trainings carried out, including the media and NGOs. The Commission's internal rules have been improved: the occasional distribution of files between employees has been introduced; requirements have been introduced aimed at ensuring the interim ruling of the committee; additional guarantees have been put in place for the rights of the persons examined. Three agreements have been concluded with state institutions. In the discussion of the report took part the MPs Kazak, Delchev, Popov, Manolova and Kirilov. The difficulties related to the possibility of the members of the committee in their incomplete composition to form the majority required by the Law for adoption of decisions and the need to fill the composition of the Commission have been discussed. Mr. Nikolov made it clear that almost 17 months the Commission has been operating in three members. During this period 540 decisions were adopted unanimously and 25 decisions were not adopted due to lack of the necessary majority. There are currently 79 pending proceedings, 25 of which are those on which the Commission cannot form a majority. The decisions adopted in 2014 establishing a conflict of interest are 8 and complaints have been lodged against them and one of them has been confirmed by a judicial act and the rest are pending. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 15 votes for the European Parliament, without abstention and abstention, supported the submitted Annual Report on the Commission's activities to prevent and establish conflict of interest for 2014, No 520/17, submitted by the Commission to prevent and establish conflict of interest on 27 February 2015 and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on it with the following wording: Project! DECISION on the annual report on the Commission's activity on preventing and establishing a conflict of interest for 2014. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 22a, para. 7 of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest, relating to art. 87, para. 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt the Commission's Annual Activity Report to prevent and establish a conflict of interest for the year 2014-2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u43	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. With the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics will introduce you to Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll introduce you to: "COMMODITY" The Commission's Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Report on the Commission's Annual Activity Report on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest for 2014, p. No 520-00-17, submitted by the Commission to prevent and establish a conflict of interest on 27 February 2015. At its meeting held on 19 March 2015, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Commission examined the Commission's Annual Report on the Activity of the Commission on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest for 2014, No 520 00-17, of 27 February 2015. The meeting was attended by the members of the Commission to prevent and establish conflict of interest: Ms. Katya Staneva, Mr. Nikolay Nikolov and Mr. Pascal Boyadzhiyski. The annual activity report of the Commission for 2014 was presented by Mr. Nikolay Nikolov, acting President, who noted that the report was submitted to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 22a, para. 7 of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest according to the principle of accountability and tracks the main aspects of the Commission's activity. The Commission has worked for almost 17 months in a composition of three members, 366 decisions have been adopted, of which 99 are essentially to establish or not to settle conflicts of interest and 267 numbers have been terminated. Guarantees for the rights of the persons examined are in place. A principle of accidental distribution of files between employees in the specialized administration has been introduced. Sustainable new systems have been established in the Commission's activities in relation to overdue declarations and in order to obtain information in due time with regard to the persons referred to in art. 3 of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest in relation to the Deadlines for the Submission of Declarations. The second sustainable system is the system for preventing conflict of interest. It is important to note that in 2014, the Commission opened itself to non-governmental organisations, civil society structures, the media, and the aim is to provide specific information on what a conflict of interest is, in order to ensure that these two very serious factors for the exercise of civil control have the most up-to-date information. Two out of 21 organized trainings are initiated by NGOs: Center of NGOs in Razgrad and the Association of Bulgarian Cities and Regions. Three agreements have been concluded with state institutions. In the discussion of the report took part the MPs Atanas Zafirov, Radan Kanev, Ivan Kirilov Ivanov, Mustafa Karadayi, Kiril Dobrev, Methodie Andreev and Georgi Kovachev. The issues of the difficulties of the staff and budget were discussed; the occasional distribution of files, internal rules for the operation of the software; the Commission's prevention; statistics on whether the cases of conflict of interest have been significantly reduced or the conclusion that the resistance to the disclosure of these cases has been significantly increased and expressed in the termination and rejection of the decisions. Opportunities for legislative change were also discussed. Mr. Metodi Andreev made a recommendation for the transfer of use of the Law on Conflict of Interest in relation to other laws, which differ in terms of the definition of conflict of interest. Vized was the Act on Independent Financial Audit, where the definition of conflict of interest differs from that in the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests. This hinders the demand for responsibility. Following the discussion, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission, with 9 votes in favour and 2 votes in abstention, proposed that the National Assembly adopt the Commission's Annual Report on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests for 2014, No 520/17, submitted on 27 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u45	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. I'm opening the debate. Dear Members of Parliament, you have the floor to speak. People's representative Petar Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking the floor because we've already had one or two reports, and it seems to me that this one needs to be paid more attention, fellow Members. At the moment, the Commission and its current composition are in practice placed in conditions to function at the border of the law. By law it is required to consist of five members, currently there are three left. We all remember the scandalous way that her chairman was suspended and everything that followed. That is to say, in order for it to meet legally and give legal acts at the moment, it means that practically all three must always be available and take a decision unanimously. However, this is not the biggest problem. For me, the biggest problem is that the Law explicitly provides powers which are by law only for the President. He convenes the Commission, he directs its activities and other things only the President can do or is appointed by the Vice-President himself. At the moment, we do not have such a hypothesis and, in practice, the Commission is forced, in its current composition, by a legislative act, such as its Rules, to supplement the Law, which at least raises a lot of disputes, raises disputes also with regard to the acts which the Commission rules. In a very urgent order, measures must be taken, not only to select a guide, but also to bring the Law into line with what it must be to remove all the wicked practices of the past. My colleague Martin Dimitrov and I from the Reformation Block have also tabled a bill, so I call on us to look at all this quickly in the Commission and reach the Chamber so that the problem can be resolved permanently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement the people representative Atanas Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr President, first of all, I am perplexed that there is no Commission representative in this House to prevent and establish a conflict of interest against the backdrop of the fact that it was one of the most discussed committees in society, as well as its work in recent years. I'm gonna take a look at this subject, and I've commented on it more than once. There is hardly anyone in this House who can accuse me of any bias or of sympathy with the Commission for preventing and establishing a conflict of interest, so I would like to say at the outset that I will support the Commission's report on its work in 2014, as I did at the meeting of the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. The argument for that is, if not much, at least enough. Even the fastest reading of the report shows that there is a significant optimization of the Commission's work, there is a relatively high efficiency, especially against the background of what was mentioned and the previous one about its mutilated composition, as well as an extension of the conflict of interest prevention system. There is a serious acceleration of the process of completion of production and its maximum closeness to the two-month period. Most importantly, however, there is a desire for work and a vision for the necessary legal changes in order to optimize its work and better results. The system for accidental distribution of case files, the timely publication on the website of the decisions taken, as well as the good financial discipline that led to savings are also commendable. They represent more than 20% of the Commission's budget. For a reason, colleagues, it is this Commission that is the anti-corruption body that received at least the criticism of the discussion on the first reading of the Monitoring Report on the Prevention of Corruption in Bulgaria, which was held three days ago in Strasbourg. Today, by the way, I open the clamp, this report must be finally adopted at second reading. I must tell you first that, unfortunately, it is not at all flattering at all, which added to the destructive report of the Committee on the Prevention of Torture to the Council of Europe, shows a very different reality for the sector of the widely proclaimed reforms of the government. However, this is another topic, another conversation with a sequel. Colleagues, to a certain extent, the National Assembly is indeed indebted to the Commission for preventing and establishing conflict of interest because we have allowed almost two years for it to work with a reduced composition, without a legitimate President and without shouting out the necessary legislative changes, which concern the way it works after the scandal in mid-2013, when it became clear how former President Zlatanov had turned the Commission into an instrument for trade with influence, political racketeering. It was transformed into an instrument for ruining political careers, human destinies in the name of solving certain tasks of the ruling then party GERB. Against this background, I think it is unacceptable that we do not yet have a changed law today that will never allow so much concentration of power in commissioners with impure thoughts again. I say it not because I am the importer of such a bill. He probably will not pass by seeing what was the reaction in the committees. I say it because there really is a need for such changes. This need is screaming. The least we can do today is to accept this report as a sign of an assessment of the Commission's efforts and a signal to society about the new style and method of work. To conclude, I would like to add that in 2014, the number of trainings carried out by the Commission to clarify the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests, which is the main instrument in its work, is twice the number of trainings carried out by the Commission for the previous three years since its establishment. Let us not forget that the letter "p" is, in particular, prevention in the name of the Commission and the results of its work, we must judge, above all, from the prevention and not established violations. In view of all this, I will vote for the proposed report and I will take the liberty of congratulating the Members of the Commission that they have found the strength to continue after everything that has happened. I will wish them a new law, developing the Commission's administrative capacity and expanding the scope of prevention among the obliged persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Zafirov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the draft decision submitted by the Vice-President of the Committee on Legal Affairs which adopts the Commission's Annual Activity Report on preventing and establishing a conflict of interest for 2014. Please vote. Vote 82 MPs: 75, none, abstention 7. The decision adopting the Commission report on the prevention and establishment of conflicts of interest for 2014 has been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE BULGARIAN ACADEMY OF THE LEARNINGS FOR 2013. The Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is the importer on 25 November 2014. With the report of the Committee on Education and Science, we will be introduced by its President, the People's Representative Milena Damyanova. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u50	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of Parliament, I have previously made a procedural proposal for admission to the House of Academies. Stefan Vodenicharov Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, please vote on the proposal made by the President of the Committee on Education and Science by the National Representative Milena Damyanova. Cancel the vote! Name check: Ianko Alexandrov Iankov - absent Yanaki Stoilov - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - absent Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Chetin Hussein Kazak - here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Hüseyin Hassan Hafuzov - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - absent Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Slavi Penchev Binev - here Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Saliha Hakif Emin - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - absent Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - absent Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Method Borisov Andreev - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - here Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Andonov Kotev - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - here Kalina Petrova Balabanova - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - absent Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - absent Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gesheva - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Additional list: Shabanali Durmush, Christian Vigenin, Yavor Haytov, Stanislav Anastasov, Rumen Yonchev, Hasan Ademov, Petar Chobanov, Nikola Hadzhiyski, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Petar Kanev, Hristo Todorov, Kostadin Markov, Krasimir Velchev. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Milena Damyanova for admission in the Chamber of the President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences Akad. Stefan Vodenicharov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u52	Abort the vote to see the results. Vote 99 MPs: for 98, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Quaestors, invite an acad. Vodenicharov. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u53	♪ I can't believe on the Annual Activity Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2013 No 405-00-2, submitted by the President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on 25 November 2014. At its regular meeting on 4 February 2015, the Education and Science Committee discussed the Annual Activity Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2013, No 405-00-2, submitted by the President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on 25 November 2014. The meetings were attended by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences: Akad. Stefan Vodenicharov, Akad. Damian Damyanov, prof. Evdokiya Pasheva, art. Cor. Svetlana Kuyumdjieva, art. Cor. Stefan Hadjitodorov, Art. Cor. Dimitar Dimitrov, prof. Ivan Dimov, Dr. Kiril Kartalov; from the Ministry of Education and Science: Prof. Prof. Kostadin Kostadinov, Deputy Minister, Marieta Popova, Senior Expert in the Department of Science and Science, Boyan Zhekov, Senior Expert in the Department of Science and Science. Dr. Eng. Lilyana Valcheva, Assoc. Vladimir Bosukov and Assoc. Nasko Atanasov. Written opinions came from the Minister of Education and Science, from the Minister of Economy, from the Minister of Defence, from the Minister of Culture, from the Minister of Environment and Water, from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, from the Union of Scientists in Bulgaria and from the Federation of Scientific and Technical Unions in Bulgaria. Everyone is in favour of this report. The report was presented by academia. Stefan Vodenicharov. In 2013, there were 2,900 scientists working on 2769 projects at the Academy. The publication activity includes 9899 titles. Of these, 4104 are in international reference magazines. The highest share are scientific publications in the field of nanosciences, new materials and technologies. For the accounting year BAS has 63.4 per cent of all the references of Bulgarian authors. The increase in the number of quotes - from 24 thousand in 2011 to over 44 thousand quoted in 2013. At the beginning of 2013 BAS has 576 PhD students; at the end - 623. The budget subsidy in 2013 reached 70 million. $750,000. leva. Almost the entire subsidy is spent on salaries, insurance contributions, benefits and scholarships. The own revenues and transfers are 41.4 million. lv. The largest share of them is formed by scientific projects and contracts with abroad. Another significant source is the operational programmes and the Seventh Framework Programme of the EU. In 2013 a network of regional academic centers was established to establish cooperation with educational institutions, companies and municipal structures. Leaded by its mission to be a national spiritual center in 2013, BAS organised a series of meetings, discussions and celebrations. The project was developed "Views for the main national values for sustainable development of Bulgaria." It is concluded that the scientists at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences have the experience, expertise and administrative potential and knowledge to conduct research at global level, but without state support and working national funding instruments could not retain a sustainable level of development of science and innovation. The discussion on the report included MPs Mariana Todorova, Borislav Velikov, Milen Mihov, Valeri Zablyanov and Mariana Georgieva. The MPs stressed that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences should not only be viewed as a scientific institution that serves the needs of the state, but as a leading strategic centre for the country, which sets the main prospects for the development of the nation. The efforts of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences were supported to be a spiritual center, to promote tolerance, grip and understanding in society. Regional academic centers have been assessed as very useful because they are found even in settlements where there is neither a scientific institute nor a university and become an engine for regional development. It has been noted that the quality of scientific developments has not fallen despite adverse circumstances. A proposal was made in the following budgets to provide targeted funds for the declaration and maintenance of the patents created at the academy. After the discussion was concluded and a vote with results was held for the Council - 16 votes, without abstention, the Committee on Education and Science unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the following draft decision: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 3, para. 3 of the Law on the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences 2013
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. On behalf of the importer, the report will present it with an acad. Vodenicharov. We're listening and watching.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me to present to you the 2013 Review of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has three main tasks: to be a national research centre, to be a national and spiritual centre, and to be the expert center of the state. These are the things that have been considered in the review, plus the financial situation and conclusions. According to the Statute of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, e.g. 2, The Academy participates in the development of world science and helps to multiply the spiritual and material values of the nation. This is the command we must obey. Initially, I will look at the publications we have made over the past year. It is evident that a large percentage are publications that are published in magazines with an impact factor, with the quotes and this is a good indicator of the work carried out at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The next slide gives distribution of scientific works in the reference editions in different directions. You can see that most are magazines and publications related to nanotechnology and materials. These are modern areas of applications, then related to cultural and historical heritage and information technology. This slide shows the distribution of all the publications over the past five years. It is evident that there is a sustainable distribution of publications, this pace has been held, despite, as Mrs Damyanova pointed out, poor funding of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences continues to maintain a good level. Publications in Reference Journals, compared with Sofia University and Medical University, show that in 2012 the large share of these publications were made by scientists at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which is another proof of the potential of the scientists working at the Bulgarian Academy. The next slide is very revealing. This is the distribution of publications and quotations of academics from the Academy. It is evident that in 2013 the number of quotes has increased, which shows that Bulgarian scientists are visible in the world scientific space. Their works are at such a level that they cause the relevant interest and increase the number of people who follow them and use them as a basis for developing their research work. According to Operational Programme "Competitiveness" 10 projects worth more than 21 million were approved for funding. BGN, which represents one third of all approved projects submitted in Bulgaria. Three major projects, funded under the Seventh Framework Programme, totaling over 10 million, have been launched. EUR for the Institute of Information and Communication Technologies, the Institute of polymers and the Institute of Solid Body Physics. In the next slide is the number of scientific projects developed by BAS. The total number is 2700. You see the distribution of different kinds of sciences. The number of further funded scientific projects and scientific development contracts of BAS in the period 2009-2013 is then shown. I would also like to note a stable maintenance of the level of these projects. The additional funding under contracts in 2013 compared to 2012 has decreased because then the Fund was blocked and the entire activity related to it has thus affected the additional funding of the Academy. Additional funding from scientific projects and contracts. I think it is very important to see that, with commercial enterprises and companies, we have 44% of all contracts - one more proof that the scientists at the Academy are sought by the Bulgarian business organizations and provide the necessary assistance and consultations for this activity. The next slide is the contracts for scientific development from abroad at a total of 23 million. BGN, the main revenue comes from the programmes of the European Union. The other, which is very important to note, is more than 36% of commercial companies in the world. Again, a good indicator of the quality of the work done at the Academy is the demand from foreign companies. The next slide says that within the framework of the Seventh Programme we have signed 217 projects with total funding over 30 million. lv. One thing I would like to point out with pleasure is that we reach a success rate of 34% in the European Community's competitions at an average of 21% in Europe. This again confirms the high level of scientific potential at the Academy. It was mentioned just now about the established network of regional academic centers. The Academy in Sofia is no longer closed, it contacts all universities in the country and all innovative companies. When I report you last year, you'll see the results. Right now. [[shows slide]] , this is the distribution map of the academic centers they have become 14 in number. Besides, we already have contacts with some neighbouring countries. As a National Spiritual Center [[shows slide]] I would like to tell you that two national roundtables have been held: the centre of tolerance. That was in the old days where there was some tension. I believe that we, with this Declaration of Tolerance between the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the National Council of Religious Communities, have assisted in a better understanding by society of tolerance. Events were held in connection with 70 years of the rescue of the Bulgarian Jews, the anniversary of Academician Mikhail Arnaudov, the Assumption of St. Sophronius, Lyubomir Miletic, there was also a wonderful evening with the Opera for Giuseppe Verdi and Richard Wagner. And something else that is very important, as an expert potential for the development of the country. Many of you are already familiar with this material when we created a year and a half ago Views about the main national goals and sustainable development of Bulgaria. I hope that you will find time to discuss this material, because we are the only country that does not think what to be in 25 years. I hope that you will do something very important for the future of Bulgaria in order to know which direction is and to follow it from here on. A material analysis of the relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia was developed, knowing that between the two academies there are already very good contacts and I hope that this year we will celebrate St. George's Day together. Valentine's Day. Cyril and Methodius here in Sofia. The number of patents [[shows slide]] You can see that BAS is the main leader of patents in the Bulgarian Research Area. According to the number of scientists, the slide shows that we now have a total of 2,900. If you look at the number of professors and doscs, you will see that the Academy does not walk down the path for a reproduction of people. We also have strict criteria inside the Academy, which we continue to adhere to strictly. A slide that's not very good at the Academy's education structure. The average age is 49 years, then is the average age of scientists in the directions, with the youngest in the medical field. The subsidies and the transfer. The 2013 subsidy is seen as increasing compared to 2012, but I would say that it is not enough to carry out the research process calmly and with greater results. You can see the additional funding from the lower curve is from the Science Research Fund, which I mentioned was not working at the time, and then very important are the income received from abroad that have grown. The next slide shows how the subsidy on individual transfers is distributed. On the next slide are the total proceeds, seeing that the main part still remains the subsidy and distribution of the various capital costs. Then there is the subsidy, the own income and transfers. It appears that we are seriously starting to catch up with the subsidy with our own revenues in 2013. The total cost for 2013 was 113 million. lv. It is evident that the main part is related to the salaries, to the activities of the entire Academy. The subsidy costs are then again mainly for salaries and not a single lev for research. At a distance of many years it has become somehow a very sad finding to say that we do not have money from the subsidy for scientific research. We have to provide it through contracts, which is not the best thing for science to develop. The structure of capital expenditure is seen to be mainly going for fixed assets. It is apparent from the following sources that the capital costs are mainly incurred by money earned by contracts and not on the basis of the subsidy. The conclusions have already been mentioned by Mrs. Damyanova. I don't want to read them again. I would like to draw attention to one thing: Mrs Glover, who was Barroso's scientific advisor, was here half a year ago and said: "The person who tells you that research is done with European money, does not speak the truth. It's just the icing on the cake. The cake must come from the state budget. " It is reasonable to consider this issue in the future, because high quality research without financial insurance is difficult. The other very important problem is attracting young people. Currently with a salary of 440 leva. For a young scientist, we are not a very attractive place. I want to tell you that we continue to work and insist on being the three things: a national research centre, a national and spiritual centre and an expert centre of the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u56	Thank you, too. Debates are open. I ask Members of the National Assembly who wish to be treated with respect to this matter to give a sign. Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u57	Thank you, Madam President. The time is relatively short, but as we are looking at the Academy's 2013 Annual Report, I will say very briefly that our parliamentary group will support the adoption of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences Annual Report for 2013. I believe those claims that accad. The President has for the Academy as a spiritual, research, expert center are justified. Several years ago there were speeches by the then Minister Djankov, which may not have been quite successful in shape, but the Academy carried out the relevant structural reforms and what is reported today. Vodenicharov shows that there was a benefit, if not by the way of speaking, at least by the subsequent action. What you mentioned today, Akad. Vodenicharov, that the budget subsidy for the Academy is too slow to increase, we should take it much more seriously and perhaps, when we look at the 2014 report, we should spend a little more time in plenary, take care of this matter. If a regular PhD student gets 450 BGN and after defending gets a little less... in strange financial logic, which is probably not related only to the management of the Academy, or is not even connected at all, then obviously such a young doctorate scientist will find an easy job outside the country which we wouldn't want. I have another number, I hope I'm not wrong, but the salary of a professor at the Academy is BGN 700. Is that true, Akad? Vaudenicharov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u58	The average salary for professor is BGN 757.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u59	Seven hundred fifty-seven leva average salary for professor. That seems insultingly low to me. After all, this is the elite of scientific and scientific thought in Bulgaria. There's a lot to think about. In the report of President Damyanova, the main things were highlighted, including for regional academic centers, which is an achievement of this leadership. The current management of the Academy has many good achievements and contributions. We must support him in those parts that are useful to the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u60	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u61	Dear Madame Chairman, dearest Acad. Vodenicharov! I want in every one of my speeches, they are not very common here, to try to activate the MPs when it comes to the fundamental issues that our National Assembly is debating. Now I would like to make a criticism of our representation that it does not respect such an institution as the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and its Report with its presence in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u62	The criticism should also be in a spirit of self-criticism, looking at the representatives of the different parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u63	I expected this remark from you, Mrs. Tsacheva. It also applies to our group, unfortunately, but that seems to be the mood. I would like to stress in this statement that our country Bulgaria has revived or the revival has begun from science. I mean, there is no European and world state that has come out of a crisis without its science, without its scientists. In this respect there is no exit from the bataka for Bulgaria if we Bulgarians do not support well and listen to what scientists people tell us. In this regard, I would like to stress that, despite the weak presentation of the MPs of the Patriotic Front of this hearing, we treat the problems of Bulgarian science with great attention. I must tell you that we were one of the first groups to cross the distance between the National Assembly and the Presidium of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to get acquainted with the problems and how we can help. I have been working with some of the Institutes of BAS for many years, especially in international training projects and I am familiar with the problems there. I must tell you that these people are our contemporary heroes because they maintain a very high level of Bulgarian science. I believe that as a legislative body, the National Assembly is a debtor of Bulgarian science. For example, it has been admitted throughout the programming period, perhaps you do not know that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has been crossed out, it has simply been gone, among the organizations that could use the European funds and, in particular, that part of the Competitiveness Programme, which gave the opportunity to work and carry out research. In this regard, I would like to stress that in the current National Assembly, my impressions are that the Science and Education Commission is quite solidly represented by smart, intelligent people who, if activated, of course, academies. Vodenicharov, and with your participation, can really do a lot. For example, the Commission also examined a mine project that will enable the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, perhaps the honourable MPs do not know, but when it comes to the use of European funds and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has the right to use 500 thousand, for example. lv. for realization of scientific research and there are 15% that they have to pay, BAS does not have 45 thousand. lv. And that's how he misses to use 455 grand. lv. We want in the new draft law that has passed through the Commission, this thing to be removed and to have the possibility of national co-financing in such cases when it comes to small amounts of money behind which huge resources, which, anyway, remain unused. As time progresses, we have a lot of interesting ministers' hearings ahead of us, so I want people to ask their questions, I want an acad. Vodenicharov, to assure you that what depends on the Patriotic Front and I think that the reformers, GERB and the other political forces, what we need to do, will do it, but I want you to be more active in this regard from BAS. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u64	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u65	Dear Madam President, colleagues, dear Academies. Vodenicharov! Mr. Petrov, however, the 2013 report impressed us and I think we should recognise the wealth with the existence of BAS and the activity that Bulgarian scientists have, but this is a stormy period with regard to governments and executive power. I am grateful to everyone that, after all, in this discussion we are not talking about feudalism or age. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u66	We need to vote on your line, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u67	I could have said "feudy old men."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u68	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Petrov, would you like to use it? Colleagues, so far there have been two further requests for speeches - Ms. Mariana Todorova and Prof. Marianna Todorova. Stanilov. Time is on the move, which is why we will interrupt the discussion of the Annual Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Mrs. Mariana Georgieva also gives a sign that she wishes to take an attitude. Fifteen-minute break. At 11.00 we continue with parliamentary control and next plenary week we will continue with the debates on the Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u69	Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. [[Incoming Minister Vladislav Goranov.]] Welcome to Minister Goranov. The sitting continues with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL New questions for the period from 20 March to 26 March This Decision shall A question came in from: - National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov to Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy, on priorities in government policy in the Southeast Development Region, in particular Sliven Region, for positive changes in the employment sectors, standard of living, demographic development with orientation to the most affected strata in society. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 3 April 2015; - MPs Chavdar Georgiev and Filip Popov to Hristo Ivanov The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 3 April 2015. Written answers for service by: - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Petar Petrov; - supplement to a written answer from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Ralitsa Angelova; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Hristian Mitev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Christian Mitev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Christian Mitev; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov to a question from the National Representative Valentin Vassilev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions from the MPs Maya Manolova and Chavdar Georgiev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the MPs Krasimira Anastasova and Nelly Petrova; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the MPs Plamen Manushev, Krasimir Petrov and Pavel Hristov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Teodora Georgieva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Zdravko Dimitrov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Ilian Todorov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question by the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Krasimir Karakachanov. We're moving on to questions for the Minister of Finance. First will ask his question Mr. Velizar Enchev about the state's relations with First Investment Bank. Mr. Enchev, we're listening to your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u70	Madam President, Mr Minister, colleagues! On 23 February this year, Minister, you announced that the state has deposited 800 million in First Investment Bank. BGN, as part of the Programme for stabilization of the institution after the banking panic last year. On this occasion, you said, I quote: I do not think that it is appropriate at the moment to put pressure on the Bank to return them. First of all, this is not the contract between the Ministry of Finance and the Bank. Secondly, the frequent attempts to make a legal effort on the banking system make me think that it is better to ban it and I have prohibited First Investment Bank from returning funds at the moment of the Bulgarian government. After a little time has passed, you continue to calm things down, we will enter our recovery schedule. They don't want to pay back, I don't want to take it right now. End of quote. Given Mr. Minister, the extreme importance of the problem, I ask you to answer the following questions. The restructuring plan of the First Investment Bank referred to in the European Commission's authorisation to use State aid was published on 2 March 2015 with significant deletions. Will you provide the public with the full version of the Plan and the anex to it? Second question: Has an independent audit and assessment of the Bank's loan portfolio been carried out before the Bank's State aid plan was approved? If it was done, when did this happen and which audit firms were it made of? On the basis of what indicators has the Bank's assessment carried out that it is a viable undertaking such as the European Commission's requirements for State aid? I also want to ask you the following questions: Do you know who are the persons holding bonds of a total amount of 97 million? lv. And do they have a connection to the Bank? In whose interest is this exception to State aid rules, which will ultimately lead to the payment of this significant amount with taxpayers' money? Finally, are you familiar with data and documents exported in media and publications according to which the First Investment Bank has granted to connected persons over 1 billion. And 200 million. lv. The Commission notes that the Bank's restructuring plan is in line with the restructuring plan of the Bank. BGN, which is a violation of the Credit Institutions Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u71	For an answer, Minister Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u72	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Enchev! The majority of the questions you have raised are the competences of the Bulgarian National Bank and the Financial Supervision Commission. In view of this, I will respond to this part of them, which relates to the functions and competences of the Minister of Finance, namely the rules in the field of State aid. The answer to the first question you asked on 2 March 2015 on the website of the European Commission was published the public version of the European Commission Decision No SI-2014/8959 of 25 November 2014 concerning State aid No SA-39854 of 2014. Bulgaria, Restructuring Plan of First Investment Bank in Bulgaria. Only the Commission's decision to approve the granting of State aid to First Investment Bank in the form of liquid support was published as part of the Bank's restructuring plan and not the restructuring plan itself. The authority which has adopted and published the decision, including the final assessment of which information is confidential and should be deleted in the public version, is the European Commission and not the Minister of Finance. In removing sensitive information from the Decision, the European Commission took into account the reasons expressed by the Bulgarian National Bank and the criteria for a Commission communication of 1 December 2003 on professional secrecy in State aid decisions. I'll combine the answers to the second and third questions. In assessing the compatibility of the State aid with the internal market, the European Commission has carried out an assessment of the condition of the First Investment Bank and the forecasts for its development in the medium term, as set out in the Restructuring Plan and agreed with the Bulgarian National Bank. The Commission has assessed the compatibility of the aid and the Restructuring Plan on the basis of a Communication from the Commission on the return to viability and the assessment of restructuring measures in the financial sector under the State aid rules in the current crisis and of a Communication from the Commission on the application of the State aid rules to bank support measures from 1 August 2013 in the context of the financial crisis. According to those communications from the Commission and the text of the Commission. 79 of the Decision, first of all, a restructuring plan must demonstrate that the restructuring process through which the beneficiary of State aid is undergoing is appropriate to restore its long-term viability. Second, the amount of aid must be limited to the minimum necessary and both shareholders and subordinated creditors must contribute proportionately to restructuring where there is a capital shortage. Thirdly, it is necessary to apply measures to limit distortions of competition created in the artificial support of the beneficiary's market power and to ensure a competitive banking sector. It is also necessary to address monitoring issues and relevant procedures. The Commission notes in this regard that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 80 of its Decision that the First Investment Bank had no capital shortage but, on the contrary, I quote: "Its capital position remains stable, according to the forecasts under the Restructuring Plan. The first investment bank experienced an acute liquidity outflow as a result of external factors. The additional liquidity support for the First Investment Bank (the 18-month extension) is linked to the ongoing market consequences of the liquid crisis. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u73	Thank you, Mr. Goranov. I understand that in three minutes you can't answer five questions with five subquests. The line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u74	Mr. Goranov, I really hope that what you say is true and there is no reason for any concern or concern. On this occasion, I will only tell you the following. At the end of February 2015, the European Commission published in expert reports the following assessments of the Bulgarian financial system. I quote only one of the passages: The financial sector crisis in 2014 raised concerns about the existence of banking practices in the part of the banking sector which is owned by local individuals with potentially significant consequences for the financial sector and general macroeconomic stability. On this occasion, I will only add by referring to the First Investment Bank, that in the international banking practice of bankers it is forbidden to engage in business and to draw loans from their bank. I am referring specifically to the ownership of some persons from the Board of Directors of resort settlements, ski trips and so on. That's my line, and I think I've said enough in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u75	A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u76	Mr. Enchev, I will use the right of the duplicate to continue with the answer so that there is complete clarity and there is no reason to speculate about the stability of the Bulgarian banking system. The additional liquidity support of the First Investment Bank is related to the ongoing market consequences of the liquid crisis in Bulgaria from June-July 2014 and not to structural problems of the Bank of Greece. The Commission considers that a lighter form of restructuring is necessary to ensure compatibility of aid such as that granted to the First Investment Bank, compared to what would be required of a bank receiving State aid to cover capital shortfall. In other words, liquid support as State aid is a much easier and lighter instrument than support related to the completion of capital shortages. But in this case, we do not have such a hypothesis with regard to the Bank that you are asking about. Regarding your fourth question. As I have already said, the decision on the deletion or not of a text of the Decision on the approval and granting of State aid, respectively, is taken by the European Commission. The First Investment Bank is also a public company, respectively its shares are traded on the Bulgarian Stock Exchange in Sofia. In this regard, the definition of inside information enshrined in the Law on Market Abuse of Financial Instruments and the protection provided by the Law should be taken into account. A competent authority in this area shall be the Financial Supervision Commission. On the last question, I can answer only that questions relating to possible violations of the Credit Institutions Act should be addressed to the competent supervisory institutions. With regard to public companies, this is the Financial Supervision Commission, with regard to banking activity this is the Bulgarian National Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u77	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next is a question of the MP Slavi Binev regarding the racket by the NRA to small traders.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is dictated by my concern for the pressure, I will not say the racketeering, which turns out to be the authorities of the Return Agency on small businesses in the country. It is more than 20 cases in Haskovo region, from which I have been elected, but I am sure that such practice exists in other cities. All of this can be united in an example that I will now give you. Wholesaler most often of cigarettes, bread and confectionery, invoiced to their counterparties goods that they have never bought. This is done in order to discharge a commodity that is sold within the year without invoices. Invoicing is done at the end of the year, usually in December, with companies issued invoices for 60 thousand. BGN, and these are companies on which all their turnover can be included in 300 or 500 BGN. monthly on the specified goods written for this year. As a result, verification by the NRA authorities of their traders is announced to them that they hide their turnover and charge them fines and taxes of hundreds of thousands of levs. There was a man I saw who had had a stroke after he had received the appropriate fines. There's a group alert at the D.A.'s office on the case, but the D.A.'s office has ruled there's no crime. That should also be considered. They are also advised not to appeal the acts because they will be charged higher amounts of payment. The Council was clearly correct because those who appeal raise their acts. My question to you, Minister, is this: what measures do you intend to take to avoid tax racketeering, and why have the examiners not reported the obvious crime? Should these verifiers not also be investigated for negligence, incompetence, or for any other reason they did so? Let's not forget that the NRA's goal is to control and not to racketeer the business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u79	For an answer, Mr. Goranov, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u80	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Binev! The main objective of the National Revenue Agency is tax collection and insurance contributions. The principles for managing the risks of non-compliance with tax and insurance legislation shall apply to its effective achievement in the Agency. Analyses show that one of the main risks is the concealment of revenue from food retailers. Unlawful actions aim at failing or reducing contributions to tax obligations under the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Income Tax Act of natural persons, the Value Added Tax Act and avoiding registration under the Value Added Tax Act. The budgetary damage of this risk has been found to be around 20.3 million per year and is highly likely to occur. In order to reduce the negative impact of risk, revenue authorities carry out different activities: send notification letters to potential risk persons; carry out operational checks on companies, including observations and inventories; carry out inspections at offices and commercial premises of persons in the industry; revisions are carried out to persons identified as risky after the operational checks and checks carried out to establish facts and circumstances, or in applying the risk assessment criterion. In the course of the audit proceedings, the revenue authorities collect all the evidence and evidence to prove the supplies made, invoices, payment documents, requests, orders, transport documents proving the movement of the goods and others. All evidence collected shall be subject to objective assessment and analysis to confirm or challenge a supply. Analyzing the different relevant evidence to the relevant proceedings, the revenue authorities shall establish from the relevant legal amount of the tax on the basis of which they determine some of the circumstances provided for in art. 122, para. 1 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, one of which is evidence of hidden income or income. The assessment of the actions taken and their impact on risk persons indicates a reduction in the damage caused by the occurrence of risk, with the effect of their application achieved in recent years showing a 73% decrease compared to the damage to the budget that would have been caused if no action to treat that risk had been initiated. As a result of the assessment, it is concluded that the measures are successful and lead to a change in the behaviour of risk persons. I inform you that where the establishment of an obligation is based on a document which is recognised in due order as false, false or falsified, the obligation to tax determined by an effective revision act which has not been appealed in accordance with the relevant procedure may be amended on the basis of art. 133 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. In this regard, the NRA shall develop an additional electronic service by which any debtor can verify the invoices issued to him by persons registered under the Value Added Tax Act. These are actually the measures we are taking. As regards the overall assessment of the work of the Administration of Revenue, I can inform you that for the first months of the year the National Revenue Agency has collected 720 million more revenue, compared to the same period of 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u81	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, I am trying in every way to help your work, not to criticize it. In this case, the following irregularity is involved. Invoicings have been issued by a wholesaler and no one is currently checking it, but are checking the people to whom these invoices have been issued and are being asked to be paid. They probably didn't respect all the legal opportunities they had to come in time. Maybe that was also because of the late information they received. We have a precedent that is not really a precedent, because it is something that may simply not have been announced to people so far. I believe that something must be done to save companies that are wrongly invoiced, they are criminally invoiced. We need to do everything possible for those who are doing checks to inform the authorities who need to do some checking to see where the crime comes from after all. These are the people our country is built on. These are extremely small traders and such fines destroy them, we condemn them to be fortified peasants, not citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u83	A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u84	Mr. Binev, I take the back not to contradict what you said, but just to comment that your analysis is correct. It is for this reason that, once again, I draw attention to the fact that an additional NRA service will be launched at any moment in an electronic format in which any trader, a taxable person, can carry out a verification of the invoices issued to him and thus prevent it from taking action to the extent that the revenue authorities have claims against him of any non-fulfiled and invalid transactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u85	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to a question by the MP Rumen Gechev concerning a signed non-reciprocal bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States to improve compliance with international tax legislation and implementation of FACTA. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Goranov, for what reasons did you sign this non-reciprocal, i.e. a unilateral bill for ratification of the above-mentioned Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America? From now on, the 121 contracts signed, according to data from the US Treasury Ministry, only 4 are non-reciprocal "Bulgaria," Cayman Islands, British Virgin Islands and Bermuda. How does Bulgaria find itself in this exotic exception and why are the interests of the Bulgarian state not protected? Is our country not interested in the illegal export of capital from Bulgaria to the United States, and is it not your duty in this regard to ensure the collection of taxes due to Bulgarian natural and legal persons? Mr. Minister, honourable colleague, half an hour ago I removed from the website of the Ministry of Finance of the United States of America minor changes, where it appears that there are seven countries in this model, including Austria, Moldova, Switzerland and Chile, but there are also several new countries that have signed a bilateral treaty, such as Algeria, Azerbaijan, China, pay attention, Colombia and Georgia. After all, the Republic of Bulgaria is one of the oldest countries in Europe, we are members of the European Union. I would like to stress, dear Minister, none of the former countries have signed such a one-sided treaty. In this regard, I would like to hear your explanation........................... what has imposed the negotiations that began as negotiations for the signing of a bilateral, normal international treaty to move on to a unilateral treaty, to the detriment of the interests of Bulgaria? Because in my question, I explicitly stress "Where-where will only the Bulgarian state provide information to the United States of America, and we will not receive information about Bulgarian natural and legal persons? Ladies and gentlemen, in the last decades of Bulgaria, there have been completely legitimate investments in the United States, but do you doubt that there is probably also a lot of illegal investments in exporting money?! Aren't we taking them back? Just as the United States wants to collect their due taxes, so that we can collect these taxes, make more transparency. Therefore, an honourable colleague and Mr. Minister, your consent to a unilateral treaty is contrary to the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is insulting for the Republic of Bulgaria to be the only former Eastern European country under this status and agree that the South African Republic, Colombia, Dominicana, Georgia, Armenia have bilateral treaties. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u87	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, I am tempted to answer not as I have been told, but as I think it, but I will actually present the information in the way it is structured by the administration of the Ministry of Finance. By a Protocol of the Council of Ministers of 9 January, A draft reciprocal Agreement on the implementation of FACTA has been approved in 2013 and a mandate has been given for negotiations to conclude the Agreement. In the period January-September 2013, negotiations were held and all issues with the US party to the draft reciprocal agreement were clarified, including the preparation of a draft agreement in Bulgarian. The draft agreement is agreed with the Bulgarian financial institutions. In the period October 2013, the Council adopted Decision 2013/233/CFSP [1] which extended the mandate of the European Union Special Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy (EUSR). "February 2014, despite the letters of reminder sent to resume the negotiations, there was no reply from the US side. In the first months of 2014, the Bulgarian side was informed that a decision was made with Bulgaria not to conclude a reciprocal agreement and had proposed an option for a non-reciprocal agreement. The reasons for the refusal to conclude a reciprocal Agreement are set out in April 2014 in a secret note received in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by Ambassador Elena Poptodorova. A copy of the secret note was also received at the Ministry of Finance. That is, you could know this secret note because you were then a member of the government, supporting the government with Prime Minister Oresharski. The information contained in the classified note can only be disclosed in compliance with the requirements of the Classified Information Protection Act. In consultation with the Bulgarian financial institutions, they have stated that the conclusion of the international agreement, whether reciprocal or not, there are no alternatives. A draft non-reciprocal Agreement was approved by the Council of Ministers on 16 April. On 23 April 2014 an agreement was reached on the texts of the Agreement and Bulgaria was included in the list of participating jurisdictions, which guarantees the security of the Bulgarian financial institutions. The Intergovernmental Agreement was signed on 5 December 2014. For your information, you also quoted some of these data, so far a total of 114 FACTA agreements have been concluded, of which non-reciprocally concluded with 21 countries, including Austria, Switzerland, Japan, Hong Kong. Reciprocal agreements have been concluded with 41 countries, including 21 Member States of the European Union, 52 States have not completed the procedures for the entry into force of the Agreement. The non-application of the signed Agreement will have an extremely negative impact on Bulgaria's reputation. Thus, our country will show an inconsistent policy and position in terms of countering tax evasion and tax evasion. Non-compliance will also have a negative effect on participation in other international initiatives to combat tax evasion or automatic exchange of information for tax purposes. The bigger problem besides the reputation is that the non-application of the Agreement will have a negative impact on the Bulgarian financial institutions because they will be treated as non-existent under the FACTA Act and will be sanctioned with 30% tax on their incomes, which they or their clients receive. According to the provisions of the FACTA Act of 2017, a 30% tax will be levied on the gross amount of payments and not just income. This will make them uncompetitive and will lose a significant part of their customers due to the imposition of a sanction in the form of a source tax of that amount. The reputation of the Bulgarian financial institutions will be threatened to a large extent and their access to international financial markets will be significantly limited as they will be an undesirable partner and client of each financial institution participating in FACTA. Negative effects will also be for the Bulgarian pension funds, which will not be able to benefit from the special privileges provided for in the Agreement. Foreign financial institutions participating in FACTA, which have subsidiaries or branches in Bulgaria, will be treated as non-participants, which creates a risk for the entire international financial group. There is a very high probability that these foreign institutions will cease their activities in Bulgaria or redirect some of their activities to third countries.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u89	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Two supplementary questions, according to the Rules. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister Goranov! My first supplementary question. There is one very important detail that there are only a few non-reciprocal contracts in the others, an honourable colleague, one Article 7, because we have reviewed several hundred pages and contracts. Article 7 instead of Article 7 6 where this reciprocity is explicitly mentioned in art. 6 in all reciprocal contracts Bulgaria is the only exception where there is no art. 7 where the United States commits to reciprocity in a subsequent period and continuing the work to sign an additional Agreement. In the project you signed, there is no art. 7. The United States of America does not make any commitments in the foreseeable future that we should be treated at least as Honduras, like Jamaica, like Georgia, like Armenia. This is contrary to common sense to treat a member of the European Union and NATO in this way! My second supplementary question. Colleague Goranov, the other day I read the text. I can't comment on it now, but we're going to want to de-secret, as this text is extremely amusing. I've read a lot of secret letters as Deputy Prime Minister, as a minister and as an MP. There's nothing classified about this gram! It's quite insulting in content written by our people in Washington. We demand from the stands, unscramble it, there's nothing classified about it. Why is it classified? Just so we don't get embarrassed in front of the world, there's supposed to be something secret. There's nothing classified! The secret is that they treat us worse than Georgia and Armenia. That's the secret! There's nothing else. Please answer these two questions, including why there is no art. 7, as in other retarded countries, that the United States is making such a commitment? Besides, aren't we gonna get those funds back? And a second question, why do we give up transparency? Dear colleagues, it is a wonderful idea, we support it, but for the exchange of information and not for our country to serve any other country.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u91	For a response Minister Goranov
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, I understand your enthusiasm to grope imperialism, but it was correct in April 2014, when you ruled the government supported by your party, and when you drew up the draft agreement as I signed, authorized, then pay attention to this topic. The note is in the Business Ministry of the Bulgarian National Assembly. If you consider as MPs that you want to secure this meeting, we can come here and discuss it without the advantage of exposing ourselves to the cameras of the Bulgarian National Television. But we'll be like Honduras until then, until they don't trust us. And then, in April 2014, they said, "We don't trust you." [[Strong noise in BSP LB, applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u93	It's about attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u94	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleague, there is no way you can return to April 2014 as we have not discussed such a project. We didn't know who was negotiating what. This was a negotiation period. The important thing is, colleague, that in December you signed, not the Oresharski government or Khan Asparuh. You're importing it now. This one first. Secondly, don't you ask yourself the strange question that some institutions in this great country are likely to have the list of these Bulgarian natural and legal persons who illegally transferred money to the United States. And possibly such a country, having this secret list, does it have opportunities for impact on the domestic political life of the Republic of Bulgaria? I'm sure there is. We don't want anything different about whether it's the United States or whether it's Britain. We want to be treated as a Member State of the European Union. [[Comments in GERB.]] And the fact that they don't trust you right now, and they're asking you to sign this contract, what does that mean? A Member State of the European Union has no confidence! China has confidence, a colleague ruled by the Chinese Communist Party! Azerbaijan trusts, Armenia trusts! You just said that the ruling coalition led by GERB did not trust the United States! Bravo! [[Comments in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u95	Question of MP Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov about the amount of funds in KTB of state and municipal companies.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u96	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable Members. We all know all the opaqueness that was around the case of KTB during the cabinet, and now it's time to change that. Following the withdrawal of KTB's license and the taking of actions to declare the Bank bankrupt, a number of media reported that not a few state and municipal companies had deposits on bank account funds in the Bank, far beyond those guaranteed by law. As a result, and if this is confirmed, these companies, some of them in difficulty in financial terms, will lose the vast majority of these funds. We believe that in the case of you, Mr. Minister, in view of the changes to the Bankruptcy Act, which entered into force and part of which we and my colleague Slavov initiated, you have new powers to request information from the temporary trade union on the condition and exposures of the Bank. You should have information about the companies and municipal ones, and respectively, if you do not have one, you can already request one. The latter is of overwhelming public interest, meaning it should not be any kind of business or business secret. Mr. Minister, our question to you is as follows: which companies, except by name, state or municipal with 50 or over 50% state participation, including holding companies and their subsidiaries, have had bank deposits in CCB, in what size and in which body and which body of the company has decided their money to go to that bank? By what criteria and by which authority has this decision taken? Once again, it is high time for all opaqueness, deliberately created by the Oresharski cabinet around the bank KTB, to now be overcome and for these questions to get direct and concrete answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u97	For an answer, Minister Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov and Mr. Slavov, with Decree No 127 of 27 May 2013. The Council of Ministers has adopted an addition to the rules on the procedure for exercising the rights of the state in commercial companies with state participation in capital, which introduced rules for the selection of a contractor for providing financial services by credit or financial institutions. These rules require that the net exposure of all state-owned enterprises and commercial companies with more than 50 per cent State participation in the capital and companies they control, with a book value of more than 3 million cash to one credit or financial institution, does not exceed 25 per cent of the total cash of the company concerned. In the event of a breach of the restriction, the company should carry out the necessary actions within one month to fulfil the conditions of concentration. According to the information provided by the Ministry as at 31 December 2014, more than 90 percent of companies and undertakings are indicated that they have accepted or are in the process of adopting internal rules in accordance with the rules for the selection of a contractor for the provision of financial services by credit or financial institutions, and procedures for the selection of a financial service provider are, respectively, to be carried out or are to be carried out. However, the Minister of Finance regularly requires additional information on the amount of the net exposure of individual state companies and undertakings or sectors to credit institutions. On the basis of this information, I will inform you of the following. According to the rules, the first reporting date is after the placing of CCB under special supervision by BNB on 30 June 2014. By that date, state-owned companies and enterprises with funds in the bank are 65 in number and the total amount of funds held by the credit institution amounted to 247,6 million. lv. The question as to which authority of the company concerned had accounts in CCB, please refer to the ministers representing the principals of these companies. In this regard, the decisions on the allocation of funds to CCB by companies falling within the portfolio of the Ministry of Finance were taken by the respective management bodies of the companies in application of the rules described in the Decree. In the Ministry, we do not have any information on which municipal companies had funds in the Corporate Commercial Bank. In conclusion, I provide you with written reference to the state-owned companies and businesses with cash in CCB on 30 June 2014. As regards their size, I inform you that, within the meaning of the Credit Institutions Act, it constitutes a banking secret in so far as it contains data on the holdings of companies and businesses in the bank. I have not been under the impression that the amendments to the Law give the Minister of Finance the power to have or to disclose banking secrets, and in this sense I cannot, without breaking the law, comment in full on the meaningful question you have asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u99	A line? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, I'm going to try to make it easier for you to release information about the amount of funds, because there's a bank secret about the banks. KTB isn't really a bank anymore, because it doesn't have a license, does it?! In order to be even more convincing for people who are not lawyers, what the Credit Institutions Act says is that, in order to carry out banking activity, there must be a licence. No license, no bank. The license of KTB has been revoked and the decision to withdraw the licence is subject to immediate execution, as the Law states, regardless of its appeal. At present, this company does not have a license and is therefore clearly not a bank and obviously there is no banking secret with regard to it. So I think that you can safely specify these data and this will be absolutely in the implementation of the Law. Moreover, if the companies in question want to hide behind some secret, they could possibly be thinking of hiding behind the trade secret, but as well as my colleague Dimitrov paid attention to you, within the meaning of the Public Information Access Act and this is not applicable because we have the so-called hypothesis of art. 17 "Supposed public interest, that is to say, society has the right to know which state-owned companies have literally buried a huge amount of money there. I will allow myself to draw your attention to something else in this regard. We ask you in practice about all the companies of state, municipal and municipalities, because within the meaning of the amendments adopted to the Bankruptcy Act you can now request this information from the interim trade union. This was one of the proposals which we discussed quite well in the working group and came exactly as a means of increased control of the transparency of the process, through parliamentary control. That is, the Minister of Finance may require this information from the Syndicates.. They are obliged to provide it to him and, accordingly, the National Assembly may ask the Minister of Finance. In this sense, it is our question, and I think you have every reason to present to the MPs and the Bulgarian society this information to know whose money went down there and which is even more important by decision of which authority, and is this not in violation of exactly the decree you quoted, because then there will be a composite act and you will have reason to refer the prosecution to an official crime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u101	It's a hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u102	Dear Mr. Slavov, I have no reason to hide information from the MPs, especially one I have the right to have. Today, I personally participated in the entry of temporary Syndicates into the Corporate Commercial Bank. I hope that today they will complete the process of adoption and surrender and begin effectively implementing their powers under the Law which we have amended and which has been in force since last Tuesday. In this sense, if the analysis of the lawyers with whom the Minister of Finance works gives confidence that we will not break bank secrecy and if your interpretation that this is not a bank secret is correct, I will provide you with absolutely all the information that comes to me from the Syndicates. My only concern is that there is no unambiguous legal interpretation of whether, in the absence of a bank and banking license, the information remains a bank secret as far as it contains information about the stocks and accounts of Bulgarian citizens, legal and natural persons. If it turns out that this is not a bank secret, there is no obstacle, and I will stand ready for parliamentary control to debate this topic. On the basis of the information I have provided you, you can address similar questions to the ministers, of course, the current ones are not at all to blame for what happened then, but they could extract the information as principals of relevant commercial companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u103	We are moving on to Mr. Ivan Ivanov's question about timely treatment with agents against harmful insects in the settlements along the Danube River.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u104	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Members of the National Assembly! Minister, I would like to raise an extremely important issue concerning both my constituency Vidin and the regions along the Danube River. As the spring season begins and the temperature rises, the snow melts. This usually causes serious quantities of water volumes and spills around the rivers in our country and leads to blighting of not small territories. The moisture creates conditions for increasing the population of mosquitoes and other insects all over the Danube River, surrounding channels, and smaller rivers. In recent years in spring-summer season, an increased population of unpleasant insects has been observed as a result of untimely treatment with the relevant preparations. This creates many inconveniences for residents and visitors of the settlements along the Danube River. If this year no preventive measures are taken to combat the insect population in early spring in the territories along the Danube River and, naturally, along the sea coast, there is a real threat to the health of the population. My question to you is: what budget funds are foreseen for this activity this year? What deadlines are they expected to be allocated to municipalities so that they can carry out the appropriate procedures for the award of these activities before the population of these harmful insects increases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u105	For an answer, Minister Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, in relation to the question you asked about the targeted state support of the Danube municipalities for overcoming the spread of mosquitoes and other harmful insects in 2015, I inform you that in the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 there are no targeted similar means for disinsecting and overcoming the spread of mosquitoes, ticks and other harmful insects. Adopted by the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015. A common matching subsidy for municipalities has increased by more than 3% compared to 2014, I think that about 7 million by memory, which allows to finance costs and overcome the spread of mosquitoes, ticks and other harmful insects. Outside of what my colleagues have written, I can continue the comment in the following way: there is no obstacle if it is considered that this is a problem that municipalities cannot deal with on their own, regardless of the transfers that the State implements to municipalities in the form of a matching subsidy, further funds should be directed in this direction. However, without running away from responsibility as an executive, we believe that local authorities should prioritize their costs, which are largely provided at the expense of transfers from the central budget, in order to solve their problems that have arisen in the territory of the local community concerned. This answer does not mean that we do not observe closely and will not try to help municipalities. It means that the resources we have allocated in 2015 compared to 2014 for the financing of the Bulgarian municipalities enable the municipalities to consider that this is a priority for them to deal with these costs. We will continue active communication with all Danube municipalities to see if they are in an objective inability to deal with this problem and if necessary and this is the most important priority, we will meet expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u107	Thank you, Mr. Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your answer, Minister. Once again, I would like to emphasise the importance of this issue, because this concerns many people, the population in these regions, and they are not small at all along the Danube River. I really assure you that at the moment this problem is gone, but exactly in a month, maximum two, the problem will be really very serious. The financial situation of a large part of the municipalities is bad, if I may say so, so it may be necessary to consider in this regard, as you said, the Ministry of Finance's support for those municipalities that are not ready and financial resources to allow procedures to combat the insect population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u109	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Would you like to use the back? [[Calls Minister Vladislav Goranov.]] No. The next question is from the MPs Katya Popova and Metodi Andreev about the detected violations in the activities of the mayor of the municipality of Parvomay Mr. Angel Papazov. Mrs. Popova will develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members, in connection with our letter to the State Financial Inspection Agency (AFFI) for carrying out financial inspections of the municipality of Parvomay, we were responsible for the fact that for the period 2009 - 2014 there were six such inspections, and for the period 2009 - 2012 alone 13 acts were drawn up to establish administrative violations of the mayor of the municipality Mr. Papazov. 7 penal decrees, 5 letters of warning and one resolution on termination of administrative criminal proceedings have been issued on the decisions drawn up due to an expired limitation period. All the violations found are related to the implementation of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act (IPO), the Implementing Rules of the Public Procurement Act, the Small Public Procurement Ordinance, which was repealed, the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and Decree No 1 of 2007. The Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency and the Public Prosecutor's Office, to which a copy of Report No FI 4-52-00-22 of 7 December 2010, is sent, shall be informed as a follow-up to the detected infringements. Unfortunately, however, so far the public in the municipality of Parvomay and we as MPs from the 17th Mir have not yet been informed by any institution, including the President of the Municipal Council on the size of the seven penal decrees.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u111	Ask the questions, you won't have enough time for your motives. The Minister has them. That's the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u112	I'm coming, Madam President. And so far, it is not known whether the prosecution has detected a crime or whether it has ever responded in any way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u113	Time's up, you haven't asked the questions. Please, Mrs. Popova, ask the questions. Motives are there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u114	My questions to Mr. Minister are: exactly what is the expression of the seven penal decrees issued during the period 2009 - 2012 to the Mayor of the Municipality of Parvomay and what happened to Report No 00-22 of 7 December 2010 on crimes committed by him, which was sent by jurisdiction to the Prosecutor's Office? My second question is...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u115	Cut the questions. You're eating one minute of your line time. There are written questions. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u116	Okay. Is there a ruling from the D.A.'s office? Last: in relation to the quoted report or the then leadership of ADFI has reacted in some way and when will the planned inspection of the municipality of Parvomay start for the first quarter of this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u117	Thank you. The last one is a matter of control, the first two not. Motives, too. We're listening, Mr. Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Popova, two of the penal decrees are for violations of the Ordinance on the award of small public contracts related to non-collection in 2010 and 2011 of three price proposals for determining the contractor of the service for the execution of prescriptions for the provision of medicinal products to veterans of wars in the municipality of Parvomay. The cost paid for these services for 2010 is 26 thousand. BGN 575 for 2011 is BGN 25,000. BGN 608. Criminal decrees were annulled by the court as unlawful, as the acts establishing the administrative infringements were drawn up after the annulment of the Ordinance on the award of small public contracts and there was a more favourable legal provision for the violator, as required by art. 3, para. 2 of the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Two penal orders are for violations of art. 7, para. 2 of Decree No 17 of 26 September 2000 on the terms and conditions for the prescription and granting of medicinal products to war veterans related to the absence of contracts concluded in 2010 and 2011 with the company implementing the supply of medicines on the recipes of entitled persons. Criminal rulings were annulled by the court as unlawful since they were issued after the repeal of Decree No 17 of 26 September 2000 and there was a more favourable provision for the violator. Other criminal decree of infringement of the Financial Management and Control Act in the public sector relating to the failure to implement an effective internal control system. The penalty order has been revoked by the court as unfounded. There is a criminal order for infringement of art. 18, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on State Financial Inspection, related to unadvised actions on a given instruction by the Director of ADFI for reimbursement in the state budget of unused funds of 62 thousand 619 BGN, paid without grounds for medicines for veterans of the warriors, military invalids and military victims. The criminal order was annulled as unlawful because of an incorrect indication of the next administrative penal provision for the act. A criminal order has been issued for violation of art. 57, para. 2 of the Public Procurement Act in 2010 for the award of a public procurement contract for the reconstruction of the internal plumbing network of the village of Byala Reka, the municipality of Parvomay. The criminal decree imposed a fine of 300 BGN, which was paid on 24 August 2011. The report was sent to the Prosecutor's Office on 18 January 2011. Until now, no information from the District Prosecutor's Office has been received in ADFI. Pazardzhik, for action taken on the report. In conclusion, I inform you that the financial inspection planned for the first quarter of 2015 in the municipality of Parvomay has already been awarded as of 25 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u119	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u120	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be extremely brief. I'm pleased with your answer, Mr. Minister. I hope for further cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u121	A hole, Mr. Goranov? On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka "a statement from Mr. Volen Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u122	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making this statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka in relation to the alarming military situation in which we live and which is not addressed consistently in the plenary and in general by the political elite of Bulgaria. Just a few days ago, the U.S. Congress adopted a resolution to instruct President Obama to supply Ukraine with weapons. This is a new moment of escalation of military tensions in the region. A whole new moment, because so far, direct US military intervention in Ukraine has not been declared externally. Now the American state is starting to supply the junta with weapons in Kiev. This means that there will be a response from the Russian Federation. This means that Bulgaria will be even more closely involved in military action. To confirm this, I will tell you what should happen this year in our territory, not in Ukrainian, on ours. But before that, I would like to tell you what happened yesterday in the Defence Committee of the National Assembly. The proposal by "Attacka" - which I have submitted personally - to terminate the agreements with the United States, the bilateral agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United States on the four military bases available to the United States on our territory - was rejected by all parliamentary groups except "Attacka." All of them, I stress, including the BSP group, two voted against. This means that the coalition, which manages Bulgaria, is indeed seven years old, is no longer six years old. We have to make an illusion about this, because the facts say so. There are currently six American ships in the Black Sea waters and military exercises are being conducted. There are teachings that we don't know anything about, because they're kept secret. The runway in Bezmer is being extended to allow American heavy-duty military planes to take off from there. Against Crimea, which is 420 km from Bulgaria, NATO missiles will be positioned from a base that is planned to be next to Shabla. A NATO command center is opening in Gorna Malina. I want to tell you what will be coming on the Bulgarian territory: 22 pieces of exercises: joint pilot workout "Trakian Eagle", joint pilot training "Trakian Star", joint preparation "Trakian Summer 2015 ", joint preparation "Rock Ispolin, joint preparation "Rock Ispolin 2", joint training "Maniver Unites Trading Livex", joint preparation "Jonet Training", joint training "Black Sea Rotary Force Platinium Lyon", some figures there, joint preparation "Black Rotary Force" and so on. Another such training is all in different months: January, April, August. Another such training, which is planned in August, checking and evaluating the six battalion battle groups in July, joint tactical training October And another joint preparation, and another participation of a US Navy vessel within the Breeze 15 exercise. These are all 22 military exercises in Bulgaria. There have never been so many military exercises, tactical preparations, and any other preparations for military action on our territory. This means that Bulgaria is really on the front line. Yesterday, some participants in the Defence Committee have been distracted by the fact that they have not heard these statements by the US military minister, Secretary of State and, as we see, Congress has voted on a resolution which obliges the President to supply Ukraine with weapons. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we are at war, preparing an escalation of war. So for the last time, perhaps for the last time, because I do not know when we will begin to feel it, and we to our heads, once again say to the rulers: take hold of yourselves, be reasonable, listen to the voice of reason! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Cease participation in joint exercises until the Ukrainian issue is resolved. Until then of Bulgaria, on the Bulgarian territory in the Black Sea on our part there will be no exercises, no participation in military actions. This is Bulgaria's only correct approach. Everything else means increasing escalation, increasing the danger for all of us and involving Bulgaria in possibly World War III. Be reasonable once again, I must tell you! The rest is in your hands, but the consequences will be yours. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc.. co-chairman Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u124	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! It's not easy to talk after the voice of reason. I'll try. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation bloc, I am deeply concerned about the deal announced in recent days, with which a company based in Luxembourg and no one else is acquiring for a euro key sites of strategic importance for the Bulgarian economy and Bulgarian national security. First of all, this deal raises unanswered questions regarding Bulgaria's national security. The acquisition of the former National Telecommunications Company, which currently controls the main frequencies and the entire channel network of the state, the acquisition of NURTS, the acquisition of military plants by an unidentified company whose publicly announced owner is not known for anything other than its visible close friendly relations with the leaders of separatists in Eastern Ukraine, most likely with the voice of reason. Secondly, there is a direct threat to national financial stability, especially in the context of the possibility of restoring CCB loans. What we have heard so far, except that the deal will be for one euro, is that the unidentified buyer in question promised to take on debts to the CCB, not that taking these debts or paying them off is an element of the actual composition of the transaction. I think that promises of debt recovery at the bankruptcy table of KTB is not something that will warm both the people with deposits above the guaranteed minimum and the Bulgarian state budget, which guarantees the amounts under the guarantees at present. Thirdly, there is evidence of continuing and stabilizing monopoly of the media frequency market through the acquisition in one package of the Telecommunications company, which is also a major cable operator in Bulgaria, NURTS, media and pyplemetric companies. At the present time, we stress that, for us, it is particularly important, through this deal, the fact that all this concentration has been in the same hands in the past. This means that the warnings of the protesters Bulgarian citizens in 2013 and 2014 were fully justified because they were persistently denied that all these companies were in one hand under illegal financing with unsecured loans from CCB. For a long time one person had not bought them, but now it turns out that one person is selling them, i.e. all these accusations about this concentration and in the past were justified and the question arises: who was idle then and who allowed it at this time?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u125	When did you learn that?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u126	There is a vertical concentration of companies with complementary activities that are directly related to national security and therefore provide strong power and opportunities for hidden influence and attempts to destabilize the state during a period of acute international crisis, which the voice of reason is already warning us about. There is a risk that military industry, telecommunication operators, media and other key national security enterprises will find themselves in the hands of a foreign country with, to say the least, enhanced relations with NATO and the European Union at the moment. The Reformation Block Parliamentary Group therefore categorically states that there are doubts about a serious risk to the state. We are certain that the unclear ownership of this package of enterprises poses a direct threat to our national security and we insist that the National Intelligence Service, the Commission for Protection of Competition and the Financial Unit of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office launch an immediate investigation into the origin of the capital of the natural and legal persons who are behind the previously non-existent company LIC33 from Luxembourg, as well as to establish what links they have with individuals close to the management in Moscow and dependent on the Kremlin oligarchs. Secondly, to identify the way and the reasons that stand for this attempt to acquire, and is there any doubt of potential enemy action in the face of an acute and critically risky external situation? Thirdly, to find in the past whether there was a deliberate inaction of Bulgarian institutions that led to this unacceptable and dangerous concentration of property for national security. Fourth, does this deal violate European directives and international obligations of Bulgaria? Furthermore, we believe that this transaction for a euro without clear guarantees that certain debts of value will be taken and defined at least close to the value of these companies, constitutes an example of money laundering and tax pricing, which must immediately alert not only DANS, but also the National Revenue Agency, as well as the temporary syndics of the Corporate Commercial Bank, calling on the National Revenue and Temporary Syndicate Agency to take immediate action to secure the shares and shares of these enterprises in order to ensure both the mass of insolvency of the CCB and the financial interest of the budget to collect the necessary taxes from such a transaction. We hope that the Bulgarian institutions will really work in this area with concern and responsibility. We're picking up positive signals. After the first days of this crisis, there are signs that the state is in its place, especially with regard to the State Agency of National Security, which is also proof of how necessary personal changes were, because it is undoubtedly the responsibility of the National Security Agency that this deal has been slept away. Would we believe that Pisanchev would be actively investigating her right now? I don't think so. Thank God the DANS has changed management, thank God financial intelligence has also changed, albeit temporarily, management. I fear that the NRA will also have to be with temporary guidance to closely monitor what tax frauds have been taking place in the previous transfers of these companies, but as at present the executive power and the DANS seem to be doing their job, we hope that all other responsible Bulgarian institutions will also do theirs. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. We continue with the questions from parliamentary control. The next question is from the National Representative Manol Genov regarding the provision of financial resources for the implementation of the National Sanitation Program for 2015. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is about the provided financial resource for the realization of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. This idea is widely promoted by the executive power of the possibility of Bulgarian citizens living in multifamily residential buildings with over 36 apartments in one building. My question to you is this: what funds are provided by the Republican budget for 2015 to implement this programme?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Minister Goranov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, if I have to be literal as a finance minister, the answer must be structured like this: the Republican budget for 2015 does not provide any means to implement this programme, because with changes in the Law of 1 January 2014 we have a Public Finance Act and a Republican budget as a concept does not exist. However, let's assume that by preparing the question, you didn't take that into account and follow the answer. The provision of resources for the realization of the program for energy efficiency of multi-family residential buildings is intended to be initially through the Bulgarian Development Bank. In this regard, the provision of art. 100 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 is given the opportunity of the Council of Ministers to propose to the National Assembly the issuance of state guarantees under new external lending agreements of the Bulgarian Development Bank under the Bulgarian Development Bank Act up to the currency equivalent of 1 billion. lv. subject to State aid law. You are aware of this, but I will remind you that the funding scheme under the Programme provides for the negotiation and payment to be carried out through the mayor of the municipality, as he absorbs the targeted funding from the Bulgarian Development Bank, on behalf of and at the expense of the respective Association of Owners. To repay the target funding provided by the Bulgarian Development Bank will be used grants from the state budget, the terms and conditions of which are laid down by Decree of the Council of Ministers No 18 of 2015. In particular, with the provision of art. 2, para. 5 of the Decree provides for the aid to be granted after completion of the renovation and to be granted by direct repayment from the state budget of the obligations of the owners' associations to the Bulgarian Development Bank for the funding used. In order to evenly allocate the costs of the payment of the grant from the state budget, the amounts of the grant become due and are transferred to the Bulgarian Development Bank when the principals and interest on the funding granted by the bank are subject to repayment. In this respect, the financing costs will be foreseen for the following years under the State budget and will be transferred to the Bank through the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the relevant year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u131	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Genov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u132	Mr. Minister, from your response, I have literally learned that this money, which will be used this year, will be paid from the budget next year, along with all interest rates, fees, expenses on this widely proclaimed event. Apparently, this government is working with some play money. It seems to me that the way he distributes them is less reliable and less credible than what TV games and lottery tickets offer for millions. It's clear that some of them will get it, and we'll all pay the bill. In addition: will there be funding of these contracts concluded by the end of this year, as you said, between the mayors of municipalities, between the Bank, between the Owners' Associations and have you considered how much by the end of this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Minister Goranov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u134	The methods of financial engineering, which are increasingly used in the modern super-liquid world, are an achievement of the financial thought, apparently lacking to you yet. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] The scheme is relatively easy and implies the possibility of engaging a significant resource in additional investments in the Bulgarian economy in the absence of fiscal space for their direct funding from the budget. There is not enough argumentation for your concerns, but I can assure you that all contracts that have been concluded will be financed and implemented as the scheme provides, without in any way affecting the commitment made to maintain financial stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u135	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MP Slavi Binev on investments of pension funds. Here you are, Mr. Binev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u136	Mr. Chairman, ministers, ladies and gentlemen! It is a global practice for pension funds to invest funds for future pensioners. Of course, this is happening in a very conservative and secure way for future pensioners not to lose money. On the other hand, we all have an interest in the high yield of their money. In our country, this yield, as a matter of fact, is different in different reports. From the Financial Supervision Commission, we have a negative yield, from the Temporary Commission, which had to establish the state of pension funds, is highly positive. In itself, it's non sens, because it can't be obtained for the same sort of mixed information. In Germany, for example, the regulatory base is so designed that the investments of these companies are in a number of different sectors, and in none of them the percentage does not exceed 10% of the pension company's money to have a portfolio differentiation. The pensioners in Germany have very high pensions because of the excellent pension system. Serious shocks have not occurred due to the particularly precisely formulated regulatory base, which is applied extremely strictly. I believe that Bulgarian pensioners can derive many pluses and, above all, higher pensions than the introduction of such a system. My question to you is: do you intend to implement such a conservative investment system for pension insurance companies to increase their profitability, which will be in line with the latest changes in the Solvency 2 Directive? On what good practice do you intend to base your proposal, if any? I believe that I may be asking you banal questions against the backdrop of the world conspiracy that has been played out in previous questions and declarations, but I think this is extremely important for our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u137	Thank you, dear Mr. Binev. Minister Goranov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Binev! I would love to discuss all of the government's intentions for future legislative initiatives at the moment they become complete. On the subject of the investment of pension insurance companies, the only comment I would allow myself, not as a reproach, but as a clarification, is that the problem is not in pension insurance companies, because they are some traders who manage the money of Bulgarian citizens in pension funds, and my concerns are mainly related to how and whether the money of Bulgarian citizens in pension funds is properly managed, at least for the reason that we have seen that there have been a lot of reserves to reduce the fees collected by Bulgarian citizens for the management of their funds in pension funds by pension insurance companies, which have turned this into a bad business, which is not reproachable, the issue is to be proportionate to the service that comes from companies managing funds. Otherwise, what strategy to choose for investment is a complex issue of balance between the security of the investment and its yield, as the textbook thesis is that with the increase in risk generally increases the yield. However, the problem is that in a weak market and a small country with an open economy, investment regulation over a period of about 40 years should be even more precise than that found in countries like Germany or the United Kingdom, where capital markets are developed extremely well and there regulations are at the height of world standards. By 31 March, as we have already commented at the end of last year, we will make efforts to build a common government position on the necessary parametric changes of the pension system in its individual elements, both in terms of short-term social risks and in terms of the risk of old age, which is managed through state social security and voluntary pension funds. In any case, we must very carefully rebalance the risk component to which the market draws us, as it is always balanced with greater concerns that can be expressed in terms of preservation, and for a very long period of time the net value of the assets that should subsequently serve to replace the income of Bulgarian citizens when they lose their employability due to increasing their age. In general, next week you will understand our intentions, Mr. Binev, and then I am ready to comment on them according to the order in which the laws are adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u139	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Binev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, there are two problems that I would like to repeat again right now. The first one should not allow there to be any variation in the figures in any way. An account must be taken either by the Financial Supervision Commission or by the Temporary subcommittee, which should investigate these problems, to see who is wrong and once and for all to be called into account why there are different figures and announcements. The second thing is that the regulations that we should adopt together as Parliament and you as the Council of Ministers must be such as to eliminate the possibility of losing money. Especially when it comes to pension funds, they cannot play as hatch funds, i.e. risk funds to juggle and play for large profits, because in the case of the yield of pension funds can be good, even low, but it is dangerous to be high, it means that they have played on extremely risky markets or speculation, something that is unacceptable when it comes to the money of the citizens of Bulgaria. In this case, the huge yield, as well as the loss for me, are at the same level, so regulations must force pension funds under very strict rules to invest these funds in order to in no way get a temporary big profit or then lose absolutely everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u141	Thank you, dear Mr. Binev. Minister Goranov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u142	Dear Mr. Binev, I am pleased that the understanding of the problems in this system is shared by your parliamentary group. In this sense, it is likely that the legislative decisions proposed by the Council of Ministers would meet with support. What I would like to comment on on the first part of your reply is related to the profitability and its assessment by the Financial Supervision Commission. In my opinion, this is a technical issue, and if someone has a claim to methodology and methodology, this case can be closed once and for all. It should not be personalized and personalized, as we are talking about statistical methods which, unlike our conjunctural political ones, are applicable in mathematics unconditionally and without the possibility of being questioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u143	Thank you, dear Minister, for both the backdrop and your overall participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to a question to Krasen Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sports. The question is asked by the National Representative Aleksandar Metodiev about the creation of better and accessible conditions for Roma children and young people for sport in the country. Here you are, Mr. Methodiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my question to you is about creating better, accessible to Roma children and young people, conditions for sport in the country. Dear Minister, in the last few years in Bulgaria there has been a lot of talk about the efforts of the Bulgarian authorities to create conditions for real integration and full participation of Roma ethnicities in public life. These efforts should have ensured the full socialization and inclusion of this group of Bulgarian citizens in our society. I believe that one of the mechanisms for the fuller integration of the Roma population is the inclusion of Roma children and young people and their inclusion in the processes related to and contributing to the creation, upbringing and preservation of high personal health and sports culture, which undoubtedly influence the development of each citizen. In addition, in recent years different programs and plans for educational integration of children and students from ethnic minorities were developed and adopted in Bulgaria, in particular from Roma origin, the implementation of which seemed to lead to unclear results. The process of integration of Roma children and young people by stimulating their participation in the processes of education and sport, in my opinion, enables children and students from different ethnic groups to receive the necessary training, ensuring their full participation and realization in all areas of life. Furthermore, providing quality and widely available education as well as the possibility of practicing sports by all children in the Republic of Bulgaria is a state task for the implementation of which, at least on paper, the efforts of all institutions are united. I stress that the programmes existing in Bulgaria are justified and based on the commitments, values and principles arising from the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as on the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria and the government's obligations regarding the integration of citizens into the European Union. In view of the above, the logical conclusion is that sport is one of the ways to develop and strengthen the personality and to create certain social habits, which is why the possibility of participating in mass sports through the various sports disciplines of children and young people of the Roma ethnicity...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u145	Mr. Metodiev, I'm going to ask you to focus on the completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u146	...must be guaranteed by state policy. I regret to note that my research shows that there is no lack of.. because the relevant sports facilities are not built on the ground and in the larger Roma districts in the settlements in Bulgaria. In the absence of such facilities, there is no way for children and young people of Roma origin to practice sports, respectively, to work to build their personal discipline and development and thus to be cut off, on the one hand, from the tensions and their ill-gotten problems, and on the other, from the risks to which harsh life on the street exposes them. In this regard, I am led by my belief that conditions should be created for sport where Roma children and young people need to be given the opportunity to exercise, and because of the lack of such sports facilities, these children and young people should be tempted by the risky activities that the street is completely mercilessly giving them. In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is: what policy to overcome this group of problems and what priorities are envisaged for implementation by the Ministry of Youth and Sports to create adequate conditions for sport for Roma children and young people, and in this regard do you foresee the construction of sports facilities and/or playgrounds in the larger Roma neighborhoods where there is an opportunity for their construction?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u147	Thank you. Mr. Metodiev, you're almost two minutes late. Consider this thing when you make a reply to the minister's response. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u148	Dear Lord President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Methodiev! The support of young people and the creation of conditions for their personal and social development is one of the leading priorities in the policy of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The main goal is the promotion of motor activity and the systematic practice of sport and tourism as a means of healthy lifestyle, physical and spiritual development, social integration and prevention of negative phenomena in society and the aggression of children from kindergartens, students of all degrees of education, children and young people with disabilities, children at risk, including those from homes for children deprived of parental care. The policy of the Ministry of Youth and Sports in this area is aimed at increasing the resources of the state and municipalities to support sports organizations engaged in sports activities with children, students and young people from all over the country, regardless of their ethnic and religious affiliation, including children, students and young people of Roma origin. One of the measures to achieve this commitment is the construction of a new and modernisation of existing sports infrastructure. In implementation of this measure, the Ministry of Youth and Sport provides opportunities for financing the Bulgarian municipalities and clubs for construction, repair and reconstruction of sports facilities and facilities under Regulation No 2. In 2014, a total of 13 sports organisations were funded, with the total value of the resources being divided of nearly 3 million. lv. For the period 2015 - 2017 it is planned to build new sites and carry out major renovations of existing sports sites at regional level, carrying out energy-efficient events, as well as repair and investment in four state sports schools. It should be noted here that 90% of the base is municipal property. There are opportunities available under European programmes and municipalities must make the most of them. Such an opportunity, for example, provides the new Operational Programme "Regions in growth" which has a good financial resource during the new programming period, which amounts to 93 million. lv. In the Ministry of Youth and Sports programs are implemented annually: "Sport for children in leisure time" "Learn to swim", "Programme for the Development of Children's Football" and "Learn to ski" where more than 33 thousand children participate, without restriction including children of Roma origin. Supported and funded by the Ministry are the programs "Sport for children in kindergartens", "Sport for children with disabilities and children at risk" and "Sport for children with disabilities and children at risk," "Sport for sport development for students," as well as the most massive student competition that takes place in four stages in eight types of sport, the school games for general education schools where students are trained and can participate, and there are no restrictions and restrictive measures for children of Roma origin in extracurricular and extracurricular activities. The funding of these programmes is over 4 million. lv. Annually. An example of joint activities of children of Bulgarian and Roma origin in 2014 are in the sports clubs of handball.Beta sport and sports acrobatics..Olympics from the city of Lom, Club of Sports Aerobics. Samokov, Football Club.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Ministry of Youth and Sport supports the activities of the Bulgarian Sports Federation for children deprived of parental care. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In 2014 there were 2,400 children from homes for children deprived of parental care, where children of Roma origin were also included. The State Sports Schools were granted 170 scholarships in 2014. We do not keep statistics on which of them are Roma and which are socially weak. The opportunities to support young people in the country, including...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u149	Mr. Minister, in the form of a doppelganger, you could further develop your answer, as you delayed the time by almost a minute. Let's do it in the shape of the back. Do you have a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I am somewhat satisfied with the answer you gave me, but mostly to my question, which I asked you, I did not hear an answer about the priorities you foresee in the Roma neighborhoods themselves, in the larger Roma neighborhoods. There are no sports playgrounds and sports facilities where Roma children and young people can practice. That was my main question, and I want to hear from you: what perspectives and what priorities do you have on these sports sites that should be built for 2015?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u151	Thank you. Hole in two minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u152	Again, the Ministry of Youth and Sports does not share the care for children depending on ethnic and religious affiliation, that is, all the sports sites we build are for use by all Bulgarian children. Opportunities for support of young people in the country, including young people of Roma origin, provides the National Youth Program. The programmes are designed to involve children and young people in sport, without distinction of religion and ethnicity, the discovery of young sports talents and the promotion of tolerant interethnic relations. They allow children and young people to exercise in sports facilities under the direction of qualified sports professionals during their leisure activities. At the heart of the policy of the Ministry of Youth and Sports for the development of sport for all stands the socialization of minority groups by including them in common activities in the different social groups. Finally, I would like to introduce you to a new initiative of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which is aimed at young minority people and the opportunity to obtain a profession and acquire the status of a teacher. I have already had a conversation with the Bulgarian Football Union and they will participate in our project free of charge with four courses. In the district centers Vidin, Montana, Shumen and Sliven will be trained about 100 young coaches who will be mediators and scouts for talent detection. The program started in July. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u153	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u154	Mr. Chairman, Members of Parliament, I take the floor on behalf of the Patriotic Front to say the following. I will address the Presidency of the National Assembly not to allow questions that divide into ethnic, religious and religious principles the Bulgarian population and Bulgarian citizens, especially the Bulgarian children. There are no Roma, no Jewish, no Armenian, no Bulgarian children - they are all children of Mother Bulgaria. I very much hope that in the next events there will be no such division as the colleague did just now, with an official request from the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from PF and BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u155	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Dear Minister, thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We're moving on to the next answers. They belong to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Daniel Mitov. The first question he will answer is the MP Stanislav Stanilov on the vote by the UN General Assembly on the resolution submitted by Russia to condemn the heroisation of fascism. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u156	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, my question has, in a sense, lost some of its actuality, but in fact it cannot be overlooked because the problem that is being treated in it is eternal, and as long as there is the phenomenon, there will be questions. At the end of 2014, the General Assembly of the United Nations with 115 voted for......................... and 55 voted against.............................................................................................. was adopted by by Russia adopted by Russia by the resolution resolution resolution resolution resolution resolution resolution resolution resolution resolution resolution resolution of Fasciists of fascis................................................................................................................ The Republic of Bulgaria was among the countries voted abstention. In this regard, I ask you to answer the question: what were the reasons why Bulgaria did not condemn the manifestations of fascism, xenophobia, as well as the heroisation of fascism that has been observed around the world lately? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u157	Thank you. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u158	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Stanilov, it is true, you are right that these questions are eternal and will continue to be asked constantly. In your letter you inform about the adoption of the resolution in the context of Bulgaria's abstention, while raising a question about the reasons of the Bulgarian country not to condemn the manifestations of fascism, xenophobia and the heroisation of fascism. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the two issues should not be mixed. In no way does Bulgaria condemn the manifestations of fascism, xenophobia and associated intolerance, on the contrary, our commitment to countering such events is and will continue to be unwavering. We strongly condemn all extremist ideologies, including neo-Nazism, and consistently advocate the position that fighting them should be a priority for the international community. We believe that the full implementation of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, as well as the adoption of appropriate measures such as education, awareness raising and dialogue promotion, would contribute to finding solutions to counter the manifestations of these ideologies. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the following aspects regarding the resolution submitted to the UN General Assembly by the Russian Federation and other States. Regardless of the title, the resolution focuses on issues that are not related to the fight against racism and intolerance and does not concern all modern forms of racism in a comprehensive way. Putting the focus of the fight against racism on the teaching of history, landmarks, monuments, as well as on political problems, the resolution does not take into account current issues in the field of human rights and gives an impression of monopolising the fight against Nazism and a one-sided interpretation of history. The Bulgarian side has always paid deep tribute to the historic role of the Allied troops, including Russia, and to the fallen victims in the defeat of Nazism during World War II. However, we must remember that World War II has led to painful divisions in Europe and for many European countries the end has not brought freedom, but new crimes against humanity, the victims of which must also be honored. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Similarly, the issue of education must be addressed, not in a selective way, but in its entirety, so as to cover both racist and totalitarian ideologies, which also deserve to be explored more deeply. Another main element is the very restrictive reference in the Resolution of Fundamental Rights, such as freedom of expression and freedom of peaceful assembly and association under art. 19, 21 and 22 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Responsibility to the memory of the victims of these ideologies obliges us not to allow the creation of new dividing lines, or to minimize the importance of fighting them. The initiatives aimed at eliminating racism in modern society should unite us, not create further tension and division. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. For the above reasons, as part of the common European position reached by consensus, the member states of the European Union, including Bulgaria, voted abstention on the resolution in question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u159	Thank you. For the line.. prof. Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u160	Dear Minister, your answer to my question has become a Filipica against totalitarian regimes, which is not the subject of this resolution. The resolution is clear. It condemns the manifestations of fascism, xenophobia, Nazism and so on. If you respect the notion of "honor" and the honour of Bulgaria is one, you should have voted for the resolution and not seek consensus with the European countries, because Europe has never consolidated itself into an ideology, even at the most united moments. And today, neoliberal ideology still does not dominate Europe. As you know, there are other parties, there are other views, there are other thoughts. One more thing, your answer to my question is clearly related to the crisis in Russia, no doubt. I didn't put it in that relationship. Otherwise we will remember the 40 years when Bulgaria joined the Axis when Bulgaria declared war on England and the United States, which we suffered so much. Then there were dozens of MPs in the National Assembly who were opposed to the National Assembly, we are now 11 - there has been some progress. These people weren't given the floor, their mouths were shut, meetings were closed and so on. That's why I want to tell you at the end that there are principled things that you shouldn't give in to, whatever ideology you confess to, otherwise we become some obedient cannons of foreign interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u161	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Stanilov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The fact is, no one's plugged anyone's voice today. You have the right to say what you think, what you want to say. I have already stressed that Bulgaria has consistently condemned the manifestations of fascism, xenophobia and related intolerance and will continue to condemn them, but in the resolution in question I said this and we want to see a little more reference to other fundamental rights related to the fight against such events as freedom of expression, freedom of peaceful assembly and association. There are many deficits in this resolution and we have therefore taken the position and coordinated it by making a common position together with the other Member States of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u163	Thank you. We are moving on to a question from MP Desislav Chukolov about your meeting on 2 February 2014 with US Secretary of State John Kerry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u164	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, I just took the trouble of checking the website of the National Democratic Institute. When I checked, I wrote your name. And what came out there? The happy news has come out that the representative of this Institute in Brussels, that is, you, Mr. Minister, have become a member of the government of Boyko Borisov. What does that mean? It means that during the office you were a representative of this organization something that is incompatible and unacceptable! So this question I address to you with the clear awareness that you are the smallest agent of the United States of America in Bulgaria. And if you please, this mentoring tone with which you just responded to Mr. Stanilov, do not use it again in this room. This is the Bulgarian Parliament! When you are in Brussels, when you are in America, use it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u165	Mr. Chukolov, the question!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u166	My question is: at the beginning of December, Minister, you meet in Brussels with the Secretary of State of the United States of America, John Carey. Then a brief communiqué came out, saying the usual things that are said in these short communiqués. All we understand is that the meeting was at NATO headquarters. My question, which I then asked you, had to wait for these months and possibly now get an up-to-date answer. My request to you, Minister, is, if you please not in this standard way, in which a foreign minister is expressed and in which the Foreign Ministry releases its introductions to the media, but really say: what were you discussing then with John Carey? What were you talking about? Did you have a mandate from the Bulgarian government, from the Bulgarian National Assembly to discuss and negotiate anything? Then why didn't you come and inform us? I think that at the time we had placed such requests in the Bulgarian Parliament to hold a hearing and inform the MPs, respectively the Bulgarian citizens who are looking at what you were talking about at the moment. That's why I asked you this question, Mr. Minister, and now I'm interested in waiting for that answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Your question was asked exactly within two minutes of the Rules of Procedure, for which I thank you. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u168	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chukolov, you have started with some things that are not relevant at all and I feel compelled to answer. I've answered you many times because you're on the National Democratic Institute page. I'm a guy with a clear biography and I didn't hide anything. You know who I worked for, you know I quit before I became a minister of the service. If you can read again, read this text that is there. He doesn't say I'm an employee of the National Democratic Institute at the time I'm a minister. There's no such thing as that. But I don't know if the language barrier is a problem in this case or something. That I don't know. But just so we're clear, this matter is clear. I never allowed myself to get into a conflict of interest. I've quit. I've become a minister. There are rules. I can't be a minister without leaving. It's absurd what you're saying. But let's put aside that question. Regarding my meeting with the Secretary of State of the United States, John Kerry during the meeting of NATO foreign ministers, it was a meeting within less than five minutes. Within less than five minutes, it is difficult to say many things. [[Noise in BSP LB.]] What we have released publicly is what we have spoken within this very short period of time. Bulgaria and the United States consistently maintain and deepen their bilateral dialogue, whose further development is determined by the exchange of visits and the holding of meetings at all possible levels. This enables the exchange of ideas and discussion of diverse issues of mutual interest. If you understand what I am saying to you right now, Mr. Chukolov, I am telling you that at this meeting I invited the Secretary of State of the United States to visit us in Bulgaria. That's what we've been through. He came, as you know. He had a visit. In this spirit and in the framework of the discussion of the meeting of the foreign ministers, as well as in the performance of my duties as Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria, the discussion was held regarding the implementation of the NATO Action Plan, which was adopted three months earlier at the Wales Summit. The priorities of the new government of Ukraine and the Alliance's support for this country were discussed. A discussion was held on NATO's new mission in Afghanistan, called "Rescruitment Support." I use this case to remind you that the NATO preparedness action plan envisages the implementation of measures to ensure the security of the allies, including Bulgaria, and to adapt the Alliance to the new strategic security environment. As allied countries, Bulgaria and the United States cooperate to achieve NATO's main objectives. In my conversation with the Secretary of State, questions of a bilateral nature were also discussed and the excellent state of our bilateral relations was mutually established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u169	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Chukolov, will you take advantage of the right to reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u170	Mr. Minister, five minutes have just reached you three times to say "wes." That's what we figured out. What do we actually see after this meeting? What's going on? Yes, here comes Secretary of State John Carey. They welcome him with unseen security measures. To recall, there were then requirements that even the terraces, the doors of the terraces and the windows be closed, because this important person is coming. How did this help Bulgaria, the Bulgarians? The U.S. power plants are starting to give cheaper electricity? Or did the U.S. visa go down? Of course, they see us as a country that's subscribing their huge order, namely the fire line they're talking about in Washington. Yes, in Bulgaria only Siderov talks about this and exposes these things. I just told you the outcome of this meeting. Twenty-three, if I am not mistaken, exercises will be conducted with NATO troops here in Bulgaria. Twenty-three teachings! What are we doing this for?! Do you remember the summons that were sent? We wanted that information from the military minister, and we compared it to how the call process is going for years. In just a few months' time since the beginning of the year, the number of these calls has exceeded by times past years. Here, this is the result of this meeting. Mr. Minister, I know you like to use diplomatic language on how Bulgaria conducts a balanced foreign policy. How many meetings have you held since you were a minister with representatives of the Russian Federation, for example with Minister Lavrov, who, by the way, is forbidden to enter here in Bulgaria? The previous President of the National Assembly Mr. Mikov refused this to happen when he had an official meeting with Nariskkin, with their parliament, with representatives from the Russian Federation. How many times have you met? That's my final question. And another question as a summary: does Bulgaria lead a balanced foreign policy?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u171	Mr. Minister, will you take advantage of the right to the backrest? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u172	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chukolov, in this short meeting you should know that John Kerry also said that he accepted to visit Bulgaria. After all, that's what happened. That's one. On the other hand, the exercises we are conducting are a response to a complicated geopolitical environment. You know, it's not just the crisis in Ukraine that you're focusing on. There is a very serious crisis in the Middle East regarding the so-called Islamic State, which is also two borders away from Bulgaria. Bulgaria is a country of NATO's eastern flank with or without a complicated geopolitical situation, Bulgaria is such a country. Such exercises increase the capacity of the Bulgarian Army. Is that what you're up against? Do you refuse the Bulgarian Army to have greater compatibility with its allies, to have better training?! The threats are around us, we need to be prepared. So in this sense, we follow national interest. It is important for me and the Bulgarian government that Bulgarian citizens feel secure that the army is prepared for them to deal with circumstances that could arise due to the complex geopolitical circumstances in question. That's all I'm saying. I'll answer the other questions further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u173	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov concerning the conditions of learning mother tongue from the Bulgarian minority in Ukraine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u174	Mr. Chairman, ministers, ladies and gentlemen! On 23 February 2014, the Ukrainian Rada repealed the Law on the Fundamentals of State Language Policy, thus effectively limiting the possibilities for learning the mother tongue of all minorities in the territory of Ukraine, recognised in accordance with the requirements of this Law. The annulment of the Law was the result of the wave of nationalism, which led to the new rule in Kiev. The annulment of the Law allowing minorities in Ukraine to study their own language was the result of the anti-democratic path on which the government's change in Kiev was made. Following the subsequent international pressure on the Ukrainian authorities, the Law, which was passed on the language policy, was repealed by Radata. Currently there is a regulation adopted during the time of former President Yanukovic. According to her, the 200-thousandth minority in Ukraine of Bulgarian ethnic origin has the right to study its own language and this is done in more than 10 schools in the territory, mainly in the Volgrad region, and in Volgrad there is a Gyorghi Rakovski High School, where Bulgarian language is studied. My question is this: in the current undetermined situation in Ukraine, in which obviously there are also constitutional changes in relation to signed Minsk agreements, is the Bulgarian government able, of course, not only as the Foreign Ministry, but what is within your competence, to ensure for the future the study of the Bulgarian language, the material status of Bulgarian schools, the provision of textbooks and, of course, the introduction of training programmes in Bulgarian language? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u175	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Minister Mitov for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u176	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zablyanov, the study of mother tongue is provided as an opportunity in the state educational programs of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. The study and use of minority languages, including the Bulgarian community, is legally regulated in the Law on the Fundamentals of State Language Policy of Ukraine. 7, regional languages or minority languages in Ukraine, adopted in 2012, as you mentioned. Following the overthrow of the regime of former President Viktor Yanuković, Ukraine's Supreme Rada in an urgent order proposed the adoption of a new Law on State Language Policy proposed by MPs from the parliamentary factions of the State and of the faction of Freedom, and developed by the Parliamentary Assembly to the Supreme Rada under the leadership of Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk in 1992. Bulgaria, along with most of the countries that have ethnic minorities in Ukraine, expressed its concern to the new Ukrainian authorities that the Law substantially restricts the rights of minorities to study the mother tongue, which is why the Law was returned for a new examination and revision. Currently in force is the Law on the Fundamentals of the State Language Policy of Ukraine adopted in 2012. According to the current legal basis of Ukraine, the Bulgarian language as a mother tongue of the Bulgarian minority is taught as a school subject in the Ukrainian universities and secondary schools of general education. The conditions of learning mother tongue from the Bulgarian minority in Ukraine are laid down in the Agreement between the Ministry of Education of Ukraine and Bulgaria of 9 December 1994 and in the Protocol for Cooperation and Exchange between the two ministries of study 2012, 2013 The Bulgarian language, literature and culture are also studied in Sunday schools and cultural and enlightened centers funded by the National Program "Born language and culture abroad" of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Bulgaria and by Decree 334 of the Council of Ministers of 8 December 2011 mainly in areas inhabited by compact Bulgarian communities in Odessa and Zaporozhka districts. The Republic of Bulgaria supports the study of Bulgarian language and literature through the secondment of lecturers in secondary schools, lecturers in higher education institutions under the Order of the Council of Ministers No 103 of 1993 for exchange in the field of education, as well as training of students in Bulgarian language, literature and culture in a number of settlements in Odessa and Zaporozhka districts. For the academic year 2014 - 2015, according to art. 3 of the Cooperation Protocol between the two educational ministries The Ministry of Education and Science has posted four lecturers in Bulgarian language and literature at Odessa State University. I. Mechnikov, at Zaporozhi National University, at Kiev National University "Taras Shevchenko" and Melitopol National Pedagogical University. Under a state order for the training in the specialty of the Bulgarian language and literature, Ukraine offers 10 seats each year. Three lecturers were posted to Volgrad and Odessa District, eight lecturers in Bulgarian language and literature, Bulgarian history, Bulgarian folk music and dances in Volgrad, Odessa District, Berdyansk and Primorsk, Byala Church. In areas compactly populated with ethnic Bulgarians, the Bulgarian language is studied as a study subject one hour a week in the tenth and eleventh grade and two hours a week from first to ninth grade. Bulgarian literature and history of Bulgaria, and a special course in traditions and customs are taught two hours a week in tenth and eleventh grade. According to information from the Association of Bulgarians in Ukraine, the estimated number of students is nearly 11 thousand. people in a total of 39 schools. The study process in Bulgarian language and literature is carried out mainly by textbooks provided by the Ministry of Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u177	Thank you. For a line? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u178	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'd like to put in the line the following clarification. The educational process in the schools of Odessa region is organized on the basis of the following regional curricula established by the Ministry of Education of Ukraine. First, with Ukrainian language of learning, second, with Russian language of learning, third "with Romanian, Moldovan or Bulgarian language of learning. The difference in the study of Bulgarian language in Moldova and other languages of minorities is that the Bulgarian language is mainly studied in Sunday schools in limited hours. The remaining ethnic minorities in Ukraine have the right to study their own language on the basis of curricula, where all subjects with extended language learning are studied. The Bulgarian language is studied as an additional, optional, selective language or as should be the exact concept. I would like to draw your attention to the following question. Most likely, in the coming months or a year, there is a legal settlement of this issue from the Ukrainian Parliament and the adoption of a new law. I rule out the possibility for Ukrainian authorities to return to the negative practice of February last year to take the path of nationalism and the persecution of national minorities. I believe that it is an obligation of the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry and of our government to raise the issue of the inclusion of an independent Bulgarian language training programme in Ukrainian schools, like the other minorities in Ukraine, because we actually fall into the same legal framework. Thank you for your comprehensive response. I hope for an active position of the Foreign Ministry on the issue, as there are indications that Ukrainian authorities will once again try to return to well-known practices from a few months ago. Only the pressure of the European countries, of the European Union, of the democratic institutions will help the Bulgarian minority to ensure the prospects for the development of its ethnic self-consciousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u179	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. It's a hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, thank you for the constructive approach in shaping and developing the issue. I agree, that question must be raised. The Bulgarian language and the Bulgarian national minority must have an absolutely equal status with all other minorities in Ukraine, all the more so that we have a very large national minority there, compared to other Member States of the European Union. This issue is already being raised both in the visit of Minister Klimkin here and in the preparation of my possible visit to the Bulgarian communities in Ukraine. We're preparing such a visit. Of course, we'll let you know about him and his consequences. Of course, this approach is the right one. Practically by signing an Association Agreement with the European Union, Ukraine has already taken on obligations from which it cannot escape. The pressure of the European countries on the Ukrainian Government to clearly respect the rights of national minorities and their equality will be one of the main conditions in the implementation of reforms in Ukraine. This is one of the main themes for which each country "member of the European Union" must take into account. Those are the rules. Ukraine, of course, by virtue of its commitments following the signing and ratification of the Agreement, must also begin to implement them. We will ensure that the process goes in favour of protection of the rights and equality of the Bulgarian language and the Bulgarian ethnic community there as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u181	Thank you, Minister Mitov. There is a question from the MP Volen Siderov concerning a position expressed by Minister Mitov on behalf of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please, Mr. Siderov, develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u182	Mr. Minister, before I begin my question, I would like to give you a clear warning. You are an executive that is lower than the legislature. You are here to answer questions, not to lecture and be mentored, as you have done so far in the questions of my colleagues. I therefore warn you clearly: in my question, do not allow yourself to lecture me or mentor me on the subject that I am about to ask you now. It's about your meeting. Firstly, you answer with a delay from 2-3 to 5 months of questions, which is a complete disrespect to the National Assembly. Secondly, you answer not as a minister should answer with responsibility to society, because we represent society here. Unlike you, we have been elected, and you have been appointed and appointed as an employee of foreign people, it has already been mentioned here by my colleague Chukolov that you have been an employee of an American state institution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u183	Come on, cut the crap!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u184	Don't call, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u185	Please don't engage in dialogue! I'm making a remark to Mr. Dimitrov, to you, Mr. Siderov, please don't enter into a dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u186	Yeah, I'm going under duress. This is about your meeting with Ukraine's Foreign Minister Pavlo Klimkin on 16 February. As you can see, today is almost two months after this meeting. In this meeting you state the following: I reaffirmed our position in support of the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Once again, I voiced support for Ukraine's European Euro-Atlantic orientation. My question is: what gives you the right to express on behalf of Bulgaria a position against a representative of a military fascist junta who made a coup and with a violation of the Ukrainian Constitution, with a violation of international legal norms took power in Kiev? This Minister of Foreign Affairs is currently a representative of this junta. He is the representative of a bloody coup, with which the power was taken in Kiev. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] What gives you the right to speak with an illegitimate representative of a coup d'état government and give him support?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u187	Minister Mitov for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u188	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Siderov, first on the subject of mentoring tone. I don't think I used mentor tone. I have very clear subjects.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u189	That's out of the question-and-answer procedure, Mr. Mitov. Please concentrate on the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u190	I speak with respect to the MPs and I can speak with due respect to people who respect me and not lie about my past. NDI is not a state institution, it is not a state institute, it is a non-governmental organisation. Learn this once and for all! As part of the executive authority, I have respect for each and every member of the National Assembly because the Bulgarian voter is behind each of you. I know and admire the control functions that the legislature exercises on the executive. Moreover, as a minister, I strive to cooperate fully in the performance of these functions of the National Assembly. In view of this, I firmly believe that the MPs, as delegates of the sovereign, are able to meet the needs of our fellow citizens, guided by the Bulgarian national interest and not by a narrow party or any other. All this means that we, despite our deep value differences that we have, still share a common responsibility to be responsible for the powers delegated to us by our compatriots. My question thus put by you requires me to remind you of the legal backbone of Bulgaria and the contracts that it has concluded. On 7 November 2014, the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 6 and art. 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted proposals from the Prime Minister of the country Mr. Borisov from the Council of Ministers. This decision of the highest institution in the country gave me the honour of defending the national interest of the Republic of Bulgaria through the prerogatives and functions of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. In accordance with art. 105, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Council of Ministers is the body that governs and implements the foreign policy of the country in accordance with the Constitution and the laws. As a member of the collective body, the Council of Ministers and I, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, are implementing the political decisions of the government governing the content of our foreign policy. Additional to this according to art. 6, para. 1 of the Diplomatic Service Act the Minister of Foreign Affairs directs, coordinates and controls the implementation of the state policy in the field of foreign policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. Regarding my stated support for the territorial integrity, sovereignty and European future of Ukraine, I would like to remind you that on 24 July 2014 the National Assembly of Bulgaria ratified an Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, on the one hand, and Ukraine on the other. With regard to the Agreement, the Republic of Bulgaria is also a country. In Title II, art. 7 of the Agreement is said to be "Ukraina and the European Union and the Member States confirm their commitment to the principles of respect for independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-violentness of the borders laid down in the UN Charter and in the 1975 Helsinki Final Act of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, as well as the promotion of these principles within the framework of bilateral and multilateral relations. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Madam President, give me one more minute, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u191	There's no way I can give you one. In the back...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u192	Okay, I'll keep going in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u193	Line, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u194	You, in your efforts to show how many documents you refer to, have walked into a trap, Mr. Minister. After referring to the Helsinki Agreements of 1975, you should know that the creation of the so-called "Ukrainian' was in violation of international norms and the Helsinki Agreements when it was separated from the Soviet Union. So to protect now the territorial integrity of a state that is initially controversial as a state is simply nonsense. That's absurd, absurd. You are entering an international legal absurdism and you believe that you are very accurate with the documentary that you are reading, but you are not. In fact, in addition to the fact that Ukraine's territorial integrity has been disputed since its separation with Kravchuk, it is controversial today at all, its government and its president and the prime minister, and therefore the foreign minister, because, as I have already said at the time of the question, this government came as a result of a bloody coup and as a result of a violation of the Ukrainian constitution at the time. You know very well that the person Turkinov, whom they placed as prime minister and president at the same time, only the patriarch did not do so was the result of a broken Constitution. There wasn't enough votes in the Ukrainian Rada to make him president. You know that well, don't you? So you legitimize an illegal government, and I asked it precisely from this: who gives you the right to legitimize an illegal government? With regard to your continuing claims that you are leading a balanced policy, this is not a balanced policy, it is an absolute imbalance in our foreign policy, which shows that Bulgaria only takes one side in today's complex really geopolitical environment. If you balance politics, then you should wait for the Ukrainian crisis to end in any way so that it is satisfactory for the whole world and then you can have an attitude and acknowledge or stand in the position of today's rulers in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u195	A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u196	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Siderov! Firstly, you are urging me that Bulgaria should not lead an active foreign policy, but that it should be lowered in Todorzhivkovski. That's not gonna happen. That's one. Secondly, our position is balanced enough. However, we are a member of the European Union, of NATO, and we are defending a certain value choice. This valuable choice is protected by Bulgarian citizens who voted for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u197	They didn't vote for him!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u198	...and we must meet those expectations. Secondly, regarding the legitimacy of the government in Ukraine. You know that Mr. Turchinov is neither Prime Minister at the moment... There were elections in Ukraine, Ukrainian citizens elected their president, elected their government. You refer to old times. The current government of Ukraine is absolutely legitimate. Bulgaria has wrapped its support for the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Ukraine not only in documents under the European Union and in a number of bilateral treaties, including in the Agreement on Friendly Relations and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and Ukraine signed in Sofia on 5 October 1992. In addition, there is a Memorandum of Cooperation in the field of European integration and within the framework of the Commission, NATO, Ukraine, where our country is committed to supporting Ukraine in its desire for political association and economic integration with the European Union. All this shows that when I expressed the support of the Republic of Bulgaria regarding the independence and territorial integrity of Ukraine, as well as its European and Euro-Atlantic orientation, I stated such a position, which is not based on subjective attitudes, but is based on rational decisions adopted by the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. And I have done so, not in my personal capacity, but in view of my status as Minister of Foreign Affairs and obligations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u199	Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control, Minister Mitov. We move on to the questions to Mr. Hristo Ivanov, Minister of Justice. Dear Members of Parliament, let me inform you that Mrs. Ivelina Vasileva, Minister of Environment and Water, has an urgent commitment that does not allow her during the time of parliamentary control to answer your questions. Ms. Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food, will answer after Minister Hristo Ivanov. First to ask the Minister of Justice a question, National Representative Borislav Iglev, concerning a delay in judicial reform. We're listening to your question, Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u200	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! At the beginning of this cabinet's mandate, you constantly talked about the need for a quick judicial reform to ensure the recovery of the judiciary and hence of our state. You have received partial support in principle from our parliamentary group BDZ. We have agreed to support you despite the vague deadlines and the lack of specifics. You owe an answer not only to us, but also to the thousands of Bulgarians who are excited about the topic, as well as all our European partners. At what stage is the judicial reform promised by you? What are the concrete results and objectives achieved since the beginning of the mandate? What are the specific measures and priorities that will improve the state of the judiciary, and what deadlines will be made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u201	For an answer Minister Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u202	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Iglev! Thank you for your question. You are absolutely right that judicial reform is delayed, only not by three or four months as long as it has passed since the adoption of the Strategy that you are talking about, but by many years. Let's not get ahead of ourselves. Judicial reform is not a one-time thing that will happen over time in some limited months. And I never said anything different. I've always stressed that this strategy is seven years old. It coincides with the period of funding under the operational programme for the next programming period, with which another supporting point, which has been used many times for our plans in this regard, is being refuted, namely that there was no financial resource for the Strategy and for the reform. There is one. Judicial reform is a complex of legislative measures, but also probably even more important, organizational ones, research, numerous projects and so on. We work in all these planes. A group works at the Ministry of Justice, which prepares a large group of amendments to the Law on the Judiciary. We are talking about an extremely broad front of amendments involving issues related to system management, the processes of attestations, the career process, the disciplinary process and electronic justice. The working group, as we are trying to involve all stakeholders in it, consists of almost 50 people and a little difficult work. But my goal is not to succeed from today to tomorrow to bring something in, but to really put in a quality product. Furthermore, speaking of deadlines, I must tell you that the Council of Ministers has adopted a timetable for measures under the Cooperation and Monitoring Mechanism. There are specific deadlines. For each of the strategy priorities there are developed road maps that are available on the Ministry's website. With them, the document totals about 80 pages. We, even with this more general document that we have submitted to Parliament, have witnessed all kinds of improvisations, as it was not read by many people. If we had imported 80 pages, the debate would have become unstoppable. There are deadlines, but we shouldn't fetish them. It's not a question in any time frame, because I'm telling you, in seven years, who knows what specific deadlines can't be set. But you've asked me to tell you other things we do. We expect the Good Governance Programme to begin on which, within this year, we will be launching several very important projects related to the overall efficiency of the management and administration of the judiciary in matters of budgetary efficiency, issues of the distribution of courts across the country or the so-called Court Card. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We will also launch a project related to legal education related to the development of a new criminal policy. I mean, this is an extremely broad front. These are things that will not soon reach you in Parliament, but will be a very important basis for really upgrading the judiciary in the coming years. There's a road map to introduce e-Justice. This will also be a long-term project, so work quite intensively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u203	Thank you, Minister Ivanov. The line, Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. However, it is not as important as time, as you said, quality. It's obvious that judicial reform takes a long time. Bulgarian citizens have been talked about reforms and strategies that do not happen for years. Condemned people are not just short of jail time, but they are allowed a smooth pass in our country. Our compatriots have lost faith in the Law, in the institutions that should guarantee justice. It is right to dictate the changes by the people who are in the justice system itself, judges, prosecutors and lawyers. We are legislators, but the proposals they would present will be at expert level and will be useful. I believe that you yourself should take the initiative for more requirements than those working in the system, consensus in the guild, in order to focus attention on limiting the corruption scandals known to this sector. A good example in this direction could be neighbouring Romania, which in recent years has been quite advanced in curbing corruption, especially with the creation of a specialized anti-corruption prosecutor's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u205	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u206	Mr. Iglev, you are absolutely right that specific proposals should be discussed with the magistrates and with those working in the various other legal professions. It is no accident that I told you that the working group is 50 people, which includes a lot of points of view and slows down the process, and it makes me nervous, of course, but for a full consensus, let us not exaggerate this possibility. The process won't be easy, I've never hidden this thing. When the strategy was adopted, I said two things: firstly, that the strategy is not reform, and in this sense, of course, we cannot exaggerate the importance of a document and, secondly, that there will be no full consensus, there will be no dispute, but as much as we can hear all points of view, we will do so. I hope, since in the first week of April we are ready with the Bill, it will be subjected to the maximum public discussion so that the different views can be heard in society as well. We hope so, but this is already a matter here of Parliament and the parliamentary groups that we will get to the issue and possible constitutional changes. The European Commission has given us a very clear recommendation to the Supreme Judicial Council so that the next can be trusted. But you know that the ball is already in your field.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u207	Next are questions about changing the status of prison in the city. Belene, the conversion and closure of the Belene prison. [[Reply from MP Slavcho Atanasov.]] The procedure will be in a common question, with a common answer. First of all, Mr. Willy Lilkov has the opportunity to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u208	We agreed that I would develop it and he would respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u209	But each of you has the right two minutes to develop the issue and separate two minutes of lines. You cut them off?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u211	Okay. Then I take it as a general one by the two MPs. Mr. Slavcho Atanasov will develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u212	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Members of the National Assembly! The council of the team of prisoners of Belene prison are concerned about the fact that the prison is transformed into an indoor-type prison hostel to Pleven prison in order to maximize the administration's optimization. What requires the intended conversion of the prison in Belene? There are no poor hygiene conditions in Belene prison, as there is no danger of harming the physical and mental health of prisoners, there are no factors and conditions to interfere with correctional actions. One of the main priorities of prison management and the Council of the College of Prisoners is about improving lifestyles and living conditions. Another priority is the creation of jobs, as well as those imprisoned who are involved in creative work. The location of the prison in Belene helps to ensure quick and adequate medical care and is the best guarded prison in Bulgaria. In recent years, no escapes from prison have been known or committed. Dear Minister, from all the above, the following question is required: what is the view of the Ministry of Justice regarding the fate of the prison in Belene and do you intend to close it when the other prisons in Bulgaria are being overcrowded?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u213	Mr. Atanasov, thank you. For an answer Minister Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov and Mr. Atanasov, this matter is important. In a private response, Mr. Lilkov and I have discussed it. The immediate cause of this reorganisation is financial. The funds under the Fund of Staff and Staff of the General Directorate of Staff of the General Directorate of the Staff of the European Union, compared with the costs of 31 December 2014, have decreased by almost 11 million. The Ministry currently has a monthly cost of nearly a million dollars per salary. If we do not undertake restructuring, we will ultimately not just have to restructure, but perhaps the salaries for everyone will run out at some point. We are currently doing a comprehensive analysis of the effectiveness of the work of the administrative structures and units of DGIN in order to seek optimization opportunities under one clear requirement, and that is that we neither plan to close the prison in Belene nor plan to cut the security staff. But there is a very visible opportunity and necessity, I would say, from the optimization of administrative staff and the administrative structure of the prison system. Here I come to the second part of the reasons and the motives behind this thing. Yesterday, as you may have noticed, there was another escalation of the warnings coming to us from the Anti-Torture Committee. For only seven countries since 1990, the Committee has issued a public declaration criticising the way in which their prisons are managed. Bulgaria has an extremely unpleasant fate to be among them. In an attempt to prevent this, I was in Strasbourg, I had talks in the Council of Europe. What they told me there is not so much that the conditions in the Bulgarian prisons are so blatantly bad. They are bad and problematic, and the crazy approach of the Bulgarian authorities over the years in which the problems are absolutely denied, the same mantras are repeated and from mission to mission of the Committee against torture there is absolutely no change. I have to tell you, since I've been a minister, I've been observing the same way the magistrates acted. In other words, this optimization has a second goal and it must send messages to administrators and bureaucracy in the closed system that responsibility must be taken and that really solve the problems, and not just repeat that we will build a new prison somewhere in the bright future. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In this sense, we are preparing a comprehensive reorganization plan, which we are currently commenting with the Ministry of Finance. When it is ready, we will provide it, including I have made a commitment to go to Belene's place and talk to people. But what happened is that we're not going to close the prison, we're going to change its administrative status, which will in no way affect the conditions in the prison itself. Unfortunately, it'll probably affect the numbers in the administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u215	The line, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u216	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, thank you for the answer in this part, in which it comforts me, colleague Atanasov, possibly the citizens of Belene, that the prison will not be closed. That's good. I would just like to remind you of a few facts: in Belene prison there are 500 prisoners in 147 staff of 165. Here is the opportunity to optimize the structure by shortening the unoccupied numbers. Secondly, the Helsinki Committee, when doing checks, found that there are no poor hygiene and household conditions, no corruption practices. The Anti-Torture Committee has found that there are no violations specifically in this prison, so there are no grounds of that nature for any sharper action towards the prison. I am pleased with the answer at this stage, I would even visit with you the prison in Belene on this inspection. I would like to remind you of something very important: the prison in Pleven was created as a division of the prison in Belene and the ratio: imprisoned employees is not in favor of the prison in Pleven. In this sense, this should be taken into account when optimizing the structure. So to appease the citizens of Belene: the prison will not be closed. Let me remind you once again that the municipality and the state may, unfortunately, be the largest employer in the region and reducing people and jobs will not be welcomed by citizens, but I am also in favour of supporting optimization and cost reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u217	A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u218	Mr. Lilkov, we share concerns about jobs in Belene in general. Unfortunately, really budgetary constraints are a reality that we cannot in any way, at least me, jump over and over again. I have to say, even with the cuts we're planning, we won't be able to fit into the budget that we have beyond them so that we can get into the budget. We need to talk about extremely unpopular measures like amnesty, and so on, things that I hope we don't get to. I'm saying this because the financial situation is really pretty serious. As far as the Belene prison is concerned, all that you have said is perfectly true, and my personal ambition is to develop this place, not just to have it with dying functions. Whether to be administered by Pleven or Belene is a completely different matter. We're really gonna have to go through an unpleasant episode, not just at Belene, by the way, of some cutbacks of administration, but that's inevitable.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u219	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We move on to the next two questions with a common answer due to similarity in the subject of the questions asked. Mr. Christian Vigenin will be the first to develop his question on amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Registry Agency, after which Mr. Yavor Haytov on draft Decree for amendment and supplement of the Rules of Procedure of the Registry Agency adopted by Decree No 89 of the Council of Ministers of 2007 containing amendments to the reduction of regional directorates. We're listening to your question, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u220	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! A draft Decree of the Council of Ministers for a change in the Rules of Procedure of the Registry Agency was prepared. It focuses on the optimization of the Agency's structures by reducing the number of Regional Directorates from 12 to 6 at the place of appeal courts and reducing staff numbers by 5%. The reform of the commercial registration in the corporate divisions of the district courts of 1 January 2008, the keeping of the Commercial Register by the Registrys Agency and the establishment of the offices of registration and the Agency is an example of the maximum ease of business, limitation of corruption practices and slow registration of companies, as well as the making of changes in them, through maximum publicity, free access to the register and the electronic image of all documents. This is evidence from the practice over the last seven years. The Registry Agency is the administrator of the proceeds from the Property Register, the BULSTAT Register, the Commercial Register and the Register of Property Relations of the Husbands (RIOS). The structural units participating in the strategic programme are 113 entries services serving the Property Register and 27 registration services serving BULSTAT, Commercial Register and RIOS, distributed in 12 regional directorates, which have demonstrated the need for this structure and organization of work over the past 10 years. The proposed changes would create a series of legal and factual problems, do not take into account the complexity and responsibility of the work of the registration services and the registration services, are not in favour of better service to citizens. In this regard, I would like to ask the following: what are the reasons why you propose changes to the Rules of Procedure of the Registry and Restructuring Agency as the Directorate-General for Registrys in the specialized administration of the Ministry of Justice within the framework of the strategy that you have proposed? Why are the regional directors of the Registry Agency not involved in the preparation of the changes, despite their expressed desire to contribute to issues that mainly affect the activities of regional directorates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u221	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Haytov will now develop his question on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u222	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! On the basis of art. 31, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and of its administration, on the website of the Ministry of Justice is published for consideration a draft Order for amendment and supplement of the Rules of Procedure of the Registry Agency. The main objective of the proposed project is likely to increase the quality of the services provided by the Registry Agency. The registration services, which are part of the regional directorates, are known to follow the structure of the appeals courts. And that's quite normal, because it's about administration. The administration, based on the etymology of the word, must be in the service of society. This, in turn, means being close to the citizens, including in the physical sense of the word. Access to services offered by the Registry Agency through registration services and registration services directly managed by regional directors on the ground is of utmost importance for each person, legal person and public authority. The services of the Registry Agency and the four registers it conducts "Imoten, Commercial, Bulstat and Register of the property relations of spouses" make it practically the most involved administration in the country. Without exaggeration, there is no person, firm and state authority who does not use the services of the registration services and the registration services. My question to you is: what does it require and why do the existing 12 regional directorates reduce to 6 to cover the regions of appeal, but not quite in this principle, because the appeal zones, as we know it, are 5? That's my question to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u223	For a joint response within six minutes we expect Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Vigenin, Mr. Haytov! You're both asking me about the reasons why the reason is simple, as Shakespeare says, the despised metal doesn't have any money. I have already had occasion in answering the previous question to speak on this topic... about the budget of the Ministry, so first, I will respond to Mr Vigenin for the justification of the proposals we are making. She stepped on an analysis of a rather thorough functional analysis which was carried out in 2014, in fact it was initiated by the previous management of the Ministry, Mr. Vigenin. In every respect, we are trying to build on the efforts that have been made by my colleagues previously in the Ministry. This analysis identifies problems such as: lack of clear distinction of function; are related to methodological guidance; coordination and lack of a unit to carry out analysis in substance of activities; incomplete functions of part of the units defined in the Rules of Procedure are identified; incorrect organization of the structure of the units supporting the special competence of the Executive Director in general administration, as well as insufficient efficient distribution of functions between the different management levels. What we're actually doing, and here I answer to Mr. Haytov, is optimization of management levels. In no way will it affect the points where citizens have access, nor the number of persons working roughly at a counter, i.e. the effective physical access of citizens to the departments of the Agency, the so-called front offices. That we will shorten and optimize the administrative hierarchy up in no way do we expect it to affect either the access or the effectiveness of the service that turns out to be. The things we plan to happen will happen, so to speak, behind the public service scene and will not affect the offices. I also want to give you some numbers. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. 100,000, while last year it was 9 million. $800,000. It's not that big of a structure. This budget cut is actually the most basic reason that forces us to take these steps. We firmly believe that this will in no way affect the quality of the service and security. Moreover, as you may have seen, on our initiative there was an inspection by the Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers at the Agency. She found certain problems. I'm glad this happened because it gives us an opportunity to react. We're making changes in management, and I hope all of this will lead to a better service. In addition, we will continue the registration reform, which will actually burden the Agency with more powers. In fact, perhaps in one subsequent period it will have to grow into a separate unit, a state agency. That's the vision. So what is currently happening, I rather regard it as an interim phase that will be transitional, towards the further development of this body and the registration reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u225	Mr. Vigenin's line, then Mr. Haytov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u226	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! I have to say, it didn't sound very convincing what you said. In the very draft of the decree you have noted that the proposed changes will have no effect on the budget. However, I think that it is not logical to have a leading motive for such changes to be cuts and cuts in state numbers and staff. I'm afraid you've probably been misled yourself in some of these conclusions. What do I mean? In some of these units, in regional directorates, the state is at a minimum. In practice, what you foresee, namely reducing 6 of the 12 directors, can lead to the fact that in practice these units will not be able to perform their functions adequately and the work will be difficult. I want you to understand me correctly. This isn't about fighting for one state or another. After all, a leading motive must be whether these units will be able to perform their functions adequately with regard to the service of citizens and businesses. I also cannot help but point out, perhaps you should also review once again what has been proposed that, in practice, this Order for amendment and supplement of the Rules of Procedure of the Registry Agency does not correspond to the presented two weeks later, the Structural Functional Reform Programme in the Sector "Justice" in the Ministry of Finance. I will not comment on this programme, but it is practically much more logical than going ahead to change the Rules and changes that will now be cut to pieces, first implementing the measures under the Programme, which you do not, I do not know why your Deputy Minister has proposed it, and only then going towards structural and functional changes in the Registry Agency. If the change will end with the dismissals of directors, as you did yesterday with the Executive Director of the Agency, I believe that this will not be positive in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u227	Mr. Haytov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u228	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, I, too, will say that I am not pleased with the answer. This kind of change bothers me, at least because it's a shot in the unknown. The proposed changes shall not take into account the functions and tasks of the Registry Agency or its specific structure. The regions are related to statistical reporting and planning. They are not administrative territorially separate individual units and have nothing to do with the structure of the Agency. But maybe this is about your latest idea of shutting down this agency. I warn you and your deputies that the consequences for the business climate, for the business that we always talk about, that we must assist, can be tragic. Are you and your team prepared to take the risk of stopping, albeit one of the four national registers kept and maintained at the Registry Agency? I suggest that the Ministry of Justice review and revise the proposed draft Rules of Procedure of the Registry Agency in accordance with its specific activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u229	A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u230	Gentlemen! Firstly, Mr. Vigenin, when we wrote that it had no effect on the budget, I mean that we would not ask for additional funds to implement these changes. Secondly, it was signed by my deputy because I was abroad the day he was supposed to sign and he was currently acting as a minister. But you understand this isn't a job that happens in a day, so there's nothing suspicious about it. I agree with you that economic realities should not be leading, but we live in them. When Mr. Haytov asks me if we're willing to take the risk of stopping the Agency's work, but if in the middle of the year it's a very real risk, in that sense, Mr. Haytov, that's exactly what I'm running from. We don't foresee closure of the Agency, Mr. Haytov. We foresee its restructuring so that it can work with less financial resources and that we can enter into the budget we have. I don't like this situation either, I assure you, but it is a fact. Mr. Vigenin, you asked me why there is a difference between the things we have provided for in the Project for amending the Rules of Procedure and the Program, which reflects an evolution of the debate. We have to work on these topics constantly, and this is not about any singleness of effort at all. As I said earlier, we have yet to debate this programme with the Ministry of Finance. These are extremely difficult decisions, and we are responsible for them. I'm ready when we finally see how the decisions are going to be shaped, have a meeting and present them to you, comment in more detail, without saying that we're shutting down the Agency and scaring people. Nobody's interested in that. I'm really asking for your support. Thank you for your interest, but our budget is such that we need to make some restructuring. I am prepared to present it to you specifically when, after the debate with the Ministry of Finance, we come to some specifics and comment. Please don't jump to any such conclusions. As far as the management changes are concerned, the Inspectorate's report will be published today. I think you'll see for yourself that this is about disturbing findings. In fact, the so-called supervisor has himself agreed to this necessity. In no way do I blame him exclusively, but he seems to have failed at the level at which it is expected, as has established an authority of authority, as is the Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers. This isn't my Inspectorate. So some management changes are required from time to time. I told him I was sorry it came to this, sometimes it came to him. But I hope we can find a way to work with him, if that's the subject. Either way, my commitment is when there's a specific, let's sit down and talk if you're interested. Please don't jump to such conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u231	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, with Minister Ivanov's reply, today's parliamentary control will be completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u232	And Mrs. Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-27.u233	Mrs. Taneva won't be able to come. Less than 15 minutes left. The next regular plenary session is next Wednesday 1 April 2015. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
