ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u1	There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. Today is 3 June 2015, the first plenary week of the month, and according to this circumstance our programme is arranged in a more special way. First are the proposals under art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, and for this month with a view to the rotation of the parliamentary groups, the parliamentary group of the party is the first. They have proposed, respectively this will be discussed as t. 1 Today, Project for a decision to end existing concession contracts for gold mining, precious and rare metals. The importer is Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. No proposals have been received from the parliamentary groups of ABB, GERB, BSP left Bulgaria, Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Reformist Block and Patriotic Front. There has been a proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center and that will be that. 2 in our program today " First vote on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Value Added Tax. Importers are Rumen Yonchev and a group of MPs. The discussion of the Project has started in previous plenary sittings, today we will continue with the debates and voting. Outside the proposals under art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly 3 is a Draft Decision on a change in the composition of the Temporary Commission to discuss the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The importer is Volen Siderov. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers, adopted in the first vote on 19 March 2015. 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in the state government and local self-government three drafts with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, one draft of Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs, the fifth draft of Petar Slavov and a group of MPs, the sixth draft of Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. This is intended to be t. 1 for tomorrow's meeting on Thursday, as the report of the Legal Committee was presented yesterday and there should be 24 hours until its viewing in plenary. 6. First vote on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Forest Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America to improve compliance with international tax legislation and the implementation of FATCA, an importer is the Council of Ministers, adopted at the first vote on 9 April 2015. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Transport "General project" drawn up on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 22 April 2015 by importers Council of Ministers, second draft by importers Plamen Manushev, Ivan Valkov and Pavel Hristov. 9. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Underground Treasures. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 10. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Disasters. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 11. Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 30 June 2014 and Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 July 31 December 2014. Importer is the Council for Electronic Media. 12. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly The blitzcontrol is scheduled for Wednesday, today, at 12.00 will be attended by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria and the three Deputy Prime Ministers except Mrs. Kuneva, who is abroad. 13. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, scheduled for Friday at its usual hour "11.00" Please vote. Vote 148 MPs: 137 against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure was received a proposal from the National Representative Rumen Yonchev, which proposes to include in the weekly programme the bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Value Added Tax, submitted by Rumen Yonchev and a group of MPs. This bill is included under para. 8, on a stronger basis will be discussed as t. 2 this week and more specifically today. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 27 May 2015 to 2 June 2015: Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and the investigating authorities in 2014, together with the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the SJC, adopted by decision of the Supreme Judicial Council under Protocol No 27 of 21 May 2015. Importer is the Supreme Judicial Council, distributed to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act. The importer is Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. The importer is Sultanka Petrova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Health is leading, and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is accompanying. A bill to amend and supplement the Forest Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food has been led by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. The importer is Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. The importer is Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft amending and supplementing the Beekeeping Act. The importer is Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. A bill to amend and supplement the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property. The importer is Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs will see it, and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will see it. Annual Activity Report of the Financial Supervision Commission for 2014, Annual Financial Statement of the Financial Supervision Commission for 2014 and Report on the implementation of the Financial Supervision Commission's budget for 2014. It is allocated to the following committees: the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Report on the Commission's activities for public oversight of registered auditors in 2014. The Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors is the importer, is allocated to the Budget and Finance Committee. A bill to ratify the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead, the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead, also assigned to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Budget and Finance. A bill ratifying the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, concerning Iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland for the second commitment period from the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead, the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Education and Science is leading, along with the Committee on Budget and Finance. A bill to amend and supplement the Roads Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2014. Importer is the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. It is assigned to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Draft Decision on a change in the composition of the Temporary Commission to discuss the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. This Project Decision is included as a point in our programme for this week. The importer is Volen Siderov. Three more messages. On 29 May 2015 the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the National Assembly received a Report on the report on the level of implementation of the approved policies and programmes under the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2014. The report was made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Foreign Policy and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 29 May 2015, the National Assembly received a Report on the Financial Management and Control of the Internal Audit at the Supreme Judicial Council for 2014. It was introduced by the representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council on the basis of art. 20, para. 3 of the Law on Financial Management and Control in the Public Sector. By my letters, the report was submitted to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Budget and Finance Committee and the Public Sector Accountability Sub-Committee of the Budget and Finance Committee. The same is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Statistical Institute received information about the business climate in industry, construction, trade and services in May 2015 and a general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at domestic market prices for April 2015. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Come in, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! "Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP Left Bulgaria Elections are coming and, as usual, the favorite of some topics is activated in election times. This time on the agenda are the archives of military intelligence. Again, some people who built their entire career on the backs of Bulgarian scouts rejoiced in front of the media. We're used to this behavior, but just because we're used to it doesn't mean we're okay with it. It has always been for us and will remain perfectly unfair on the same plane to place the snitch and the scout. It is precisely to make this distinction that BSP supported the adoption of the Law on Files and the establishment of a special Commission in 2007. However, the conclusions of the work of this Commission prove that this was a mistake. And although the then parliamentary group of Coalition for Bulgaria supported the lighter version, without lustration texts, and although the initiators of this BSP bill were now in other parties, the disappointment of the Commission's activities proved to be great. Almost nine years after its creation, the account of her work is tragic. Did she make it clear? Did you put an end to the scandal? Did you suspend the possibility of political racketeering with existing and non-existent files? On the contrary, it not only does it not stop, but continuously nourishes the myths associated with the former State Security. Her practice is conflicting, conjunctural, unprofessional. Emblematic for her work is the case of Bozhan Stoyanov. In 2008, the Bureau of Records issued a certificate stating that there was no record of him being a meticulous or material employee, nor a secret collaborator of the former State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. In 2013, the same Commission, with the same Chairman, distributed information that it was cooperating with State Security. This case must be in court, and it's a lot more like him. But even the court cannot answer the question of what it means that someone has a box. In March 2014, provoked by controversial case law, the national Ombudsman addressed the Supreme Administrative Court with this issue, but the judges did not rule. And how many people, how many big Bulgarians, among whom prominent intellectuals, artists, scientists and athletes were decorated by this Commission in the meantime. Please consider how, when the Commission declares you an associate on the basis of some card, you can prove that you did not know about it. A man can prove he speaks Chinese, but he can't prove he doesn't understand it. In this ridiculous way they have anointed people of art and science, whose names I do not mention, because they do not deserve to be quoted in this context. They exposed journalists and writers. At the same time, we have not heard any credit millionaire seriously suffer from the Commission's work. One hundred and seventy Bulgarian diplomats, whose efforts Bulgaria entered NATO and the European Union, were victims of the Commission during the first management of GERB. At the time, the start of the recall action was Foreign Minister Nikolay Mladenov, the son of a former state security official. Today the military scouts are in turn, and the instigator of their lighting is the Minister of Defense, strongly supported by the President of the Republic. Have these people ever asked themselves what are the risks to those foreigners who worked and maybe still work for Bulgaria? Politically, there'll probably be a scandal coming up from the files that were handed over. It'll last two or three days and go away. Our question is, is it worth it? Is it worth it for someone's political ambitions to put people at risk? Is military intelligence worth exposing now that threats are on the line, but in the future? Because who will decide to cooperate with Bulgaria when they know that tomorrow someone Nenchev can expose him? The Minister of Defense's decision is irresponsible, unprofessional and shameful. We from BSP left Bulgaria clearly state our disagreement with him and join the warnings that the Association of Military Intelligence constantly, for months, have been trying to address to the authorities and personally to the Prime Minister. You remain deaf to them, as you do not hear the legitimate concerns of military and police officers about the so-called pension reform. You've closed your eyes and ears to security issues at all, and that's why you have a huge responsibility. If you had devoted at least one tenth of the energy you spend on the file issue to take care of today's police and servicemen, we might not have witnessed protests and mass leavings. As for the files, if you really want us to read and close this page; if you really want us to finish the topic and move forward, it is time to break the monopoly on the truth established by the Committee on Files and return the subject to parliament. The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria is ready to propose a bill to transform the Commission into a historical institute, where outside the political grudge files can be read and examined. Let the Bureau of Records read history instead, the Committee of historians read the files. Accept this declaration as a call for common sense. And accept this call, because it is becoming increasingly persistent that you have no vision for the future, you insist that we hate each other for the past. " - Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u3	Ms. Cornelia Marinova procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be extended by three weeks for written proposals to amend and supplement the bill for encouraging research adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u5	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made to extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings. 140 MPs voted: 122, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point one: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO TERMINATE THE ACTING CONCESSIONAL AGREEMENTS FOR GOLD, PRICE AND REGULAR METALS, No 454-02-15. It was introduced by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. It was distributed to the leading Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. The Committee on Legal Affairs. Reports have been received on behalf of the Commission. We will first hear the report of the leading Commission. Mr. Petar Kanev will present the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you go, Mr. Kanev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u6	♪ I can't believe under the Project Decision on the termination of existing concession contracts for the extraction of gold, precious and rare metals, No 454-02-15, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 14 January 2015 examined and discussed the draft decision to terminate existing concession contracts for gold mining, precious and rare metals, No 454-02-15, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. The meeting was attended by Lyuben Petrov Deputy Minister of Economy, Miloslav Katsarov Director of the Department of Natural Resources and................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The draft decision was presented by the MP Lyubomir Vladimirov. The draft decision suggests that the government will take measures to end concession contracts for gold, precious and rare metals, as well as to develop a strategy for the development of the industry, accompanied by a legal framework to put on strong ground the development of this promising industry in the Bulgarian mining industry. On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are required opinions from the relevant ministries. The Ministry of Energy in its opinion indicates that if the proposal of the MPs is accepted, 11 concession contracts for the extraction of metal minerals will be terminated. The effects would be legal disputes between the concession (the State) and concessionaires of the terminated contracts and the obligation of the State to pay compensation for the damage of early termination, which would be significant. The termination of concession contracts will also raise issues related to the management of fields and adjacent infrastructure, the financing of this management and others. All of this requires concrete action on the termination of concession contracts after the adoption of a strategy provided for in art. 7 of the Law on Underground Treasures, not before. The amendments, whatever they may be, should not affect rights already acquired without dialogue with investors. The importers' claims of non-compliance by the concessionaires of the legislation in force are not true; of the uncertainty of the owners; of the lack of control of the quantities of gold, precious and rare metals obtained. In accordance with their powers, the competent State authorities shall carry out administrative control of compliance with the requirements of the legislation in general or on a special basis. In conclusion, the Ministry of Energy does not support the proposal for termination of concession contracts and fully supports the idea of adopting a strategy for managing all underground wealth. For this purpose, however, no decision of the National Assembly is necessary, as this is already provided by the legislator in art. 7, para. 1 of the Act in force on Underground Treasures. The Ministry of Finance notes that the reasons attached to the draft decision do not specify specific legal grounds for termination of the existing concession contracts for gold mining, precious and rare metals; there is no analysis of the legal and economic effects of such actions, including possible legal cases, including of an international nature. In addition, the Act on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 and the medium-term three-year budget forecast contains a certain amount of non-tax revenue from concession payments, which would not be made in full in the event of termination of the concession contracts referred to in the draft decision. The Bulgarian Mining and Geological Chamber strongly disagrees with the proposed Project for a solution, as its implementation would set a precedent in European practice, a hostile investment climate in the country, destabilization of the mineral-raw industry and would cause serious tension among the employees of mining companies. The Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry does not support the Draft Decision because the adoption of such a decision would constitute an unconstitutional act because it is contrary to the constitutional principle of separation of authorities. The proposal is inconclusive and unargumented and due to the lack of economic analysis and justification. The Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria believes that the issue raised is essential for the Bulgarian economy, for good management of natural resources, but the presented Project for a solution is unacceptable because: the field of application is not clear; there is no impact assessment; the reasons of the importers have false claims and when the decision is adopted the state is burdened with undue risks. In the subsequent discussion the MPs united around the proposals of the representatives of the Reformation Bloc and Coalition BSP left Bulgaria to be entrusted to the Ministry of Energy and to the Ministry of Economy to present information to the Commission for the last 10 years about all concession contracts relating to deadlines, payments, detected violations, applied sanctions, impact assessment, comparative analysis with European standards by industry. After the end of the discussion and vote with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt the draft decision to terminate the existing concession contracts for gold mining, precious and rare metals, No 454-02-15, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. We will now hear the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to terminate existing concession contracts for the extraction of gold, precious and rare metals, No 454-02-15, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. At its meeting on 21 January 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined the proposal for the adoption of a draft decision to terminate existing concession contracts for gold mining, precious and rare metals, No 454-02-15, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. On behalf of the importers, the project was presented by the MP Ilian Todorov. The proposal for the adoption of the decision is motivated by the need to develop specialized detailed regulations on the extraction of gold, precious and rare metals, the absence of which led to a series of errors and corruption practices. Mr. Todorov emphasized on the extremely low amount of concession fee in Bulgaria, which calls for the termination of existing concession contracts. People's representatives Chavdar Georgiev, Emil Dimitrov, Svilen Ivanov, Ilian Todorov, Danail Kirilov and Yavor Notev took part in the discussion of the project. Mr. Chavdar Georgiev noted that concession contracts were concluded with 1.5% fee for the state from what was obtained, which is controlled entirely and only by the concessionaire. There is no real control as it is under the concessionaire's reporting documents. The percentage has subsequently been reduced to 0,75%, and given these disadvantageous conditions, it is necessary to request that they be re-negotiated. Mr. Georgiev supported the idea of the Council of Ministers to initiate a re-negotiation of the conditions in accordance with art. 18, para. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, according to which the State properties are owned and managed in the interests of citizens and society. Point out specific deficiencies in the Law on concessions that are at the root of the problem under consideration and point out that it can be resolved if there is a general political agreement to do so. Mr. Georgiev pointed out the danger of condemning the state if the proposal for termination of the contracts was accepted. Mr. Emil Dimitrov pointed out that everything should be done to solve the problem of the extremely low concession fee, but the proposal for termination could not be supported, it is necessary to renegotiate the conditions. He expressed support for the proposal for a strategy. Mr. Svilen Ivanov noted that the proposal makes sense, but it was brought to extremes, which is why it could not be supported. Mr. Ilian Todorov pointed out that it is necessary to assess what is more profitable for the state, the fines to which it could possibly be condemned, or the value of the gold mined. Mr. Danail Kirilov noted that it is necessary to respect the possibility of condemning the state. Mr. Yavor Notev paid attention to the proposal on the topic. 2 of the draft decision, which is in line with the opinions expressed, and as far as this is concerned. One, she could change. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Issues with 1 Voice........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. On behalf of the importer we are listening to Mr. Volen Siderov to present to us the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u10	Thank you, Madam President. The draft decision that we offer to your attention concerns the concession for the extraction of gold, copper and silver, which was given to a foreign company in 1999. Further in the course of the debates, I will make much more arguments than are written in our proposal, in our draft decision. I heard in the reports of the two committees, especially in the opinion of the Ministry of Economy, that there were not enough legal arguments in the draft decision and the reasons. I agree with the fact that there are no detailed and consistently sufficient legal arguments, but this is a draft decision of the National Assembly. This is not a proposal for amendment of the Constitution, but the legal arguments and the wrong arguments, because besides legal arguments, there are also those who are called "moral-ethical-ethical" or "mortal-ethical-interest," for them, I hope, we will debate in the Chamber if there is a desire for it. However, as I look at the results of the meetings of the two committees, the draft decision on the termination of the concessions for the extraction of gold has voted a cryfro and I speak one person, i.e. the representative of Ataka. on both committees, and against him have stood 13 plus 4 "17 votes against" and "abstained." In the Legal Committee, the situation is also 1 vote for.. 3 votes against.. 12 votes abstentions. The Economic Commission is opposed to 13 votes and abstentioned 4 votes, i.e. no other political power has supported this draft decision in the Commission. Now what will happen in the gym!? I hope to hear from the representatives of the political forces why they were opposed to, why they abstained. Our proposal consists of two points, I will read them: "1." The National Assembly shall instruct the Government to take the necessary measures to terminate existing concession contracts for the extraction of gold, rare and precious metals. 2. It obliges the government to establish a Strategy for the Development of the Industry and to propose a new legal and regulatory framework. What caused this Project Solution? From the fact that for 16 years the gold, copper and silver, plus perhaps more than 30 strategic elements are being acquired in the territory of the mine,.. Chelopech..... by a foreign company I can say it firmly, firmly, I can organize a Round Table on the matter.... without absolute or almost no control from the Bulgarian state. For evidence, I will only point to one fact. For 15 years from 1999, when the property was actually dedicated to the foreign company, which, by the way, changed its name, part of ownership and so on, from 1999 until 2014, no audit was carried out by the Court of Auditors. Not one! If it's government control!? Call it state control, for me this is absolute irresponsibility by several governments and by state institutions that are obliged to control what is being produced and what is being exported. The legal arguments. For information to the Ministry of Economy, I can mention some of them. These are gross violations of the concession contract. First, to tell you the background of this company, i.e. how it was given to a concession. It's given without auction. That's already a violation in itself. In 1999 this locality was not tendered, but just 100% of the shares of the state company Chelopech Mining was purchased by a foreign company and then automatically obtained the right to concession. All this is a deal within 5 million. The dollar. Five million dollars! For comparison, I will tell you what is the official report of the Ministry of Energy. We asked a question a few days ago and received a personal reply from the minister that for these 15 years the Bulgarian state received 69 million. 859 thousand. BGN 394, rounded 70 million. lv. for 15 years of gold mining, which, in the roughest calculations, has brought over 7 billion profits to the concessionaire. So we have 70% profit on the part of this concessionaire. The Bulgarian State is currently receiving a concession fee below 1%. Over the years, this fee has varied from a percentage and a half up to a point of time of 0.75 hundredths of the percentage of the fee under 1%. I am announcing a prize of BGN 10 if someone points me to another country in the world... from the Third, Fourth, Fifth and Sixth World, which has allowed a foreign company to export gold and precious metals from its deposits against less than 1% concession fee. It's been going on, like I told you, for the 16th year. During all these years, ladies and gentlemen, this Assembly has been in different compositions, but some of you here have been more than 10 years, some have been since the beginning of the transition to the so-called "democracy" and in fact colonisation, and remember that here of governments one after another, all of you who have changed......................... all of you have changed....................... Of course, the claim that I use can be contested, it can be said that this is not a legal correct term. Yes, it is not legally correct, but it is correct in terms of popular interest, of national interest, because only the gross account indicates that this company has earned profits, as I have already said, over 7 billion. They're more, they're much more, but the bad thing is, you can't even get the right bill because the state hasn't had any control in all these years. In addition to this concession being given without tender, the concessionaire obtains, without the knowledge of the State, valuable strategic elements such as germanium, gallium, tellurium, selenium, molybdenum, vanadium, which are used in high technology and are extremely expensive and appreciated at the moment in the world. The concessionaire of the locality "Chelopech" violates the concession contract by failing to comply with one of its main obligations, namely that. 5.2 of the Council of Ministers Decision No 147 of 27 March 1999. To process the golden-unit-spirited ores to the golden-bearer concentrate. This is not done and what is being exported from Bulgaria is not subject to control and no one knows exactly what is being exported and what it contains. The processing takes place in another country, as Bulgaria does not have such opportunities. Bulgaria has not been a highly developed state.. no technologists, no engineers, no specialists, and therefore everything that is exported is processed in another country in Africa. The other points of the contract violated by the concessionaire are e.g. 4 which requires the concessionaire to develop the property in good faith by preventing improper electoral exploitation, i.e. choosing where to process more delicious pieces. At the moment, this is exactly what the... is selectively processing these fields, which are richer in gold, the rest becomes unfit for processing. So, in a predatory way, it's rehabilitating this place. There are more violations. I'll give them to anyone who's interested. I am only saying this to refute the opinion of the Ministry of Economy and to invoke the right of the State to unilaterally terminate a concession contract in the event of default by the concessionaire of the main obligations. That is to say, we have every reason to accept this decision and to entrust the government to implement it, and to finally end a treaty which, as I have already said, has been robbing our country for 16 years. All the considerations that this would violate the investment climate, not only are they false and ridiculous, they are a mockery with the national interest of Bulgaria because we cannot call investment a colonizer, an exploiter. Of course, Dundee Precious Metals, who received the delicious piece of pie, is not guilty. It's not the one who eats the pie, says the people, but the one who gives it to him. Who's giving it to you? It is given by the Bulgarian state during the reign of Ivan Kostov [[the President signals that time has run out]] whose representatives are in the ruling coalition today. I plead, ladies and gentlemen, to your conscience and conscience...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u11	The weather, Mr. Siderov, for the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u12	...to end this concession while it is time, because any continuation of the concession will lead to new, new and new robberies of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Ataka and from the guests of the balcony.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u13	The debate is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to take part. Please, the Quaestors, warn the guests that they are watching the plenary session, do not participate with applause in it. [[Sighs, noise and lines.]] Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u14	Madam President, colleagues, at first I should say that I fully support Mr. Volen Siderov's proposal, and I would like to recall something very important from two years ago. The international image of our country, honourable Members, has repeatedly been questioned because of foreign companies exploiting our natural resources, and this has become not anywhere but in the European Parliament. This topic became up-to-date, I recall to those of you who have forgotten, of course, and I had forgotten this topic that on 22 October 2013, when in the European Parliament the Polish MEP Tadeusz Cimanski was in Bulgaria a year ago, alarmed the European Parliament about a number of abuses in the granting of concessions on the territory of Bulgaria. He said in the higher legislative body of the European Union the following, I quote: "Concessions in Bulgaria are attributed to very questionable schemes. There concession contracts conclude either Bulgarians, planted persons of oligarchic structures, or close to the government, or companies from countries outside the European Union, usually Australian and Canadian companies. This is what he said: The corrupt behaviour of the governments in Bulgaria is in deep conflict with the basic idea of the European Union, and it says: The free internal market is open to everyone. Mr. Cimanski drew attention to the fact that European companies are extremely worried because they feel discriminated against in Bulgaria, and explained that there are many complaints in European institutions against criminal behaviour, I quote: Apparently, he said that in these countries high standards, such as they are imposed across the European Union, are not guaranteed. And at the end of his speech, the Pole called for an immediate inspection by Brussels on two of the most scandalous concessions, which are particularly worrying and need to be checked urgently, paying special attention to the gold mining concession of the Canadian company Dundee Precious Metals in Chelopech and Krumovgrad. Here I must remind you that the 30-year concession of Dundee Precious has become a symbol of how foreign companies drain Bulgarian underground wealth under the favorable view of several governments. I recall the Canadians giving the state only 1.5% of the acquired material, according to the scandalous treaty, honourable colleagues from the Reformation Block, signed in 2000 by Mr. Kostov's office. The mine near Chelopech is one of the largest gold deposits in Europe, and Mr. Siderov said it, and the largest gold mine in operation in the Balkans, with the concession fee for the development of the precious metal paid in 2012, amounts to the ridiculous 6 million. $800,000. lv. This is a small amount, given the financial performance of the company, amounting to billions. Not to mention the poisons that are poured out at the extraction, literally polluting the riverbeds, namely the nearby river Topolnitsa, which, as you know, was published many times in the press, watering almost the entire Pazardzhishka field, and is full of toxins. I'd like to say that finally, Dundee Precious has also put her hand on the gold field near Krumovgrad. You know that the immensely wealthy hill of Ada Tepe is the subject of Canadian appetites since 2003, when the NDSV government gave them the concession for the funny 15 million. The dollar. I remind you of this to MPs from the Reformation bloc who were in this cabinet of the NDSV and in this Parliament. According to experts from this field, over 30 tonnes of precious metal of the highest quality can be obtained, but according to the Canadian signed contract for our country remains the ridiculous 0.70% of its small gold. I just remind you that Bulgaria is not the only country that has a problem with Dundee Precious. In 2011, this company was expelled from Kyrgyzstan after mutiny, I repeat, mutiny, almost a revolution against their daughter company there, Sentera Gold. Then tens of thousands of people rose against the bad working conditions in the mines and even came to bloody clashes, after which the concession was terminated. I repeat once again, I support the submitted proposal by Mr. Siderov and I hope Mr. Slavi Binev from the Patriotic Front will take the position to support this proposal. Mr. Slavi Binev honours him, as the MEP defended this cause in the European Parliament, and to a large extent the speeches of the Polish MEP and other MEPs were his work, for which I congratulate him. I hope Mr. Slavi Binev will take the attitude and support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u15	Any lines to Mr. Enchev? I won't. Will other MPs participate in the debate? Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! What was just taken out by the negotiators is some part of the truth. I stand here to tell you that the concession contracts for the gold mine in Chelopech and in other mines are a clear example of unfavorable contracts concluded by the state, concluded at the time of Ivan Kostov's government! I'll give you some parameters. When these contracts were concluded, the profit tax was 30%. There was an opportunity for the State to renegotiate its concession fee if the price of gold rose. These contracts were subsequently amended also to the detriment of the State interest. Now this negotiating clause has been dropped, unclear why, during the management of the NDSV. As you know, the profit tax is currently 10%. Moreover, at the time of NDSV the concession fee, which is 1,5%, was reduced to 0.75! For comparison, I'll say this. If you want to acquire inerts, such as sand, gravel, clays and others, the State will ask you for a concession fee between two and five percent of what you received. For gold, a concession fee of 1,5% is determined, which was subsequently reduced by half during the NDSV. Tell me, if this isn't an unfit contract, what is it? The payment of the concession fee on the basis of these contracts is funny. We have also studied world practice, argued with concessionaires and proved to them that there is no country in the world that does not receive less than 15% of what it has received. And that's accepted by the concessionaire. During the triple coalition, there was a special Interdepartmental Group that negotiated with the concessionaire and reached a preliminary agreement, firstly, the State to participate with a minimum of 25% in the processing of the sourced raw material, to build a fleet factory here and the State to have a much greater economic interest than the extraction of concentrate and metals from this mine; and secondly, the concession remuneration to gradually increase to 8% minimum. Neither happened nor the other, because then GERB came to power again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u17	What was the 40th National Assembly?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u18	So in principle, the demand is absolutely fair! I only have reservations in the form in which we do it. I do not think it is appropriate for the National Assembly to deal with this, but since there is no other state body in this country, I ask myself: who, if not the National Assembly?! So I'll probably support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u19	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u20	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable importers of this Project! I believe that the submission of the Project and the debate which began the National Assembly honors him. The question is whether the decision will leave such a mark on the National Assembly. I think it will be positive even if, as a result of this debate, the government is tasked to make a serious analysis of the situation with the exploitation of the natural resources of Bulgaria, the trends on which it is developing and the benefits for the country that are missing. It's started badly and it gets worse in the years. I will recall a country that has not been discussed here whose property remains the mining remnant and the waste of this activity? This is a matter of greater economic importance than, if you will, the amount of concession fee and the price of the exported metal! Because at the present stage of the development of technology from natural given and concentration is produced and exported less than half. The other half remains in mining waste, accompanied by all rare earth elements, which in many cases have and in the future will have more economic significance than the gold and copper received today. With changes in Bulgarian legislation under pressure or for other reasons, from the explicit text in the Law on Underground Treasures that the mining residue remains state property, it is already owned by the concessionaire! And the concessionaire is not even interested in exerting technologically at this time, with more expensive technologies to make a higher yield rate, because what remains in the waste is his and is waiting for him without a concession fee for the country to process it after years and use it for free! These things are extremely important, and instead of just contemplating how poor we are and not even asking ourselves the question: why are we so poor, we need to start solving issues that make us terribly poor! And that's one of them. How and under what circumstances the concession has started is very far away, but how things have developed and how they will go in the future is extremely important. Therefore, knowing how many people will be terribly angry with me about this position, I will support this proposal. I know it will not pass, but from this debate should follow the draft decision to assign the competent state authorities to analyze the legislation, practices and, if you will, the technical way in which the rest of the waste is taken into account, and how this activity will be further developed in Bulgaria, so that we can start from somewhere to do things as the people expect and deserve, and not as the elements lead us. The new agreement, which is being prepared by the four-letter name CTTI, will make all these welded contracts unshakable! That's why we have to think a lot with him. And this particular occasion, Madam President, should be the beginning of the administration's award of responsible analysis and decisions to fit this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u21	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. - What's the line? I won't. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! With our proposed draft decision, we are dealing with a very serious problem, which I do not know to what extent you in this House are assessing and how much you can understand what this is about. There has been a lot of talk here about the amount of the concession fee, but there is no talking about what this amount involves. The fee is paid on the extraction of three main metals, such as the ore obtained in Chelopech, for example, is polymetal. At the moment, Germanium is extracted from it, for your information. In Chelopech, the German is the fifth largest, world's largest yield, we have a unique thing, with only 2013 at the prices of the London Metal Exchange, Germany's Chelopech, amounting to 172 million. U.S. dollar. That's his size. As for control, a little information. If you find me in Bulgaria a person who can control and say exactly what is being exported from the bush, and not only from it, and from the ore, from its enrichment as a whole, I will shake your hand. Currently, there is no control body in Bulgaria that can tell whether Dundee Precious is exporting what he writes. At the moment, the fee paid by.. Dundee Precious.... is paid on what they declare................................ we have earned so much. Having it in the Namib Desert is no longer your business. There is no such authority in the country that can track it, control it and say that it is or is not. There are a number of other features in the field of the extraction of rare and valuable metals in Bulgaria. It turns out that our country outside is considered a territory where you can safely come and rob the natural resources we have here. And we've got plenty. Some people would say, "They are in a small concentration. Yeah, but they're polymetal, so we can extract more than one ore from them. And Mr. Bozhino was just talking about something interesting that I'm going to remind you of. Years ago, there were some Chinese people who came to Bulgaria and said they wanted to buy hostels, including from the Kremikovtsi. If you don't remember, in December we discussed here, in this hall, how to compensate the German state for four million because a German company came to Bulgaria to make a factory that can produce cement from this slag. Right now, we're giving these things away lightly. We say all the time, we're poor enough. There's nothing we can do here, but we're being pressured from the outside. Who's out there pushing us? They're pushing us because when we give in to these things and put in a taxi of one or two percent each, they're gonna keep doing it. If we allow it, why shouldn't they? You think someone outside of Brussels is gonna come pat us on the shoulder: Bravo, guys, come on, raise your fees and fix them?! Someone will say, "Taxes are very funny, very small." Seven million is the fee from Chelopech Mining. Add 98 more equal parts to this seven million a year and you will find out how much Bulgaria will receive if it is in state hands! You want an economic analysis, don't you? Here's a simple economic analysis. Will there have to be machines to process? Yeah, they'll be there. If we consider including the scientific journals of the University of Mining and Geology since 1997, we will notice what the yield of a ton of rock mass of the relevant metals is. Let's think of it as nationally responsible people, not just sit around and keep quiet in this room, not go out at all and say how we're going to vote, what we're going to do, and if we can, this thing goes pό unnoticed as a vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u23	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. [[Noise and lines from "Attacka."]] Colleagues, I've asked a few times! [[Reply from the National Representative Volen Siderov.]] I was only looking at you, Mr. Siderov! Here you go. I look at you, you look left.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear guests! I am sure that in the history of the National Assembly these will remain as the most bizarre debates since the parliament existed under the democratic rules of 1990, because, apart from the two speakers who said they would support, but individually not as a group, and our representation, no one wanted to take an attitude. We are talking about something very important and you, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, you have the opportunity to do something historic to correct a criminal treaty concluded in 1999 to the detriment of Bulgaria! This was confirmed by the speakers from the other parliamentary groups. Okay, since it is clear that it is detrimental, since it is clear that the country's interest is affected, why are we not making a decision, why are we standing, why don't I hear your opinion, why doesn't someone come out to argue against it? In the Commission, most have voted either abstention or abstention. No one goes out here to say, "I'm against this Projection because you're going to tell me why." This means that there are no arguments, virtually no arguments. It means that there is something hidden, some second plan
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u25	And the independent Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u26	...will actually vote abstentions or abstentions, or silently avoid the issue. I apologize, I miss the independent MP Velizar Enchev, who also said he would support this draft decision. You have a truly unique opportunity to fix something that was bad for Bulgaria. I cannot understand this passivity, I cannot understand why there is no desire at the moment to take an attitude, to present a position by the ruling parties, which I am convinced have some position, but do not say it. Why don't you say it, colleagues from GERB, reformers, patriots, ABB, BDZ and so on?! By the way, neither does BSP as a group. This is an important, crucial question for Bulgaria! Very often, we hear the words "no money".. there is no money for education, for hospitals, for pensions. There's money! When we raise the issue of the pensions in Bulgaria, we usually hear there is no money, enough with these proposals. What are you talking about? It's populist, it's not realistic! Now we see an opportunity for Bulgaria to have money for education, whether for pensions, whether for the most needy areas of the social sphere, and the National Assembly refuses to receive this money. They're billions of dollars if there are 7, whether there are 17 will only become clear when we find out what the profits of this company are. When we asked the minister here, she said how much the state received as a concession fee, but did not say how much the company's profit was. And when we ask what the profit is, it says it's a trade secret. How can it be a trade secret how much is earned by the gold of Bulgaria?! And it's not just gold, it's also about the valuable elements of strategic importance, some of them are more expensive than gold. Why don't we know the profits of this firm? Why do we not know how much Bulgaria can earn as income from all these fields? These are questions I've asked, I'll repeat, many times from this tribune. I have been consistent for ten years in a row and I have called on another Prime Minister: "Stop these concessions, stop this concession!" By the way, in Bulgaria, there are a lot of concessions... We are now opening up a word for one of them. After all, I'm glad this is about her, because these questions kind of sweep under the carpet. There are an awful lot of concessions that are not good for our country. They have been concluded at different times. Now we point out that this was concluded in 1999, with the same government as Kostov's, however, we must not forget that the concessions were renewed during the other governments that followed the same of Saxe-Coburg and GERB government No 1 which confirmed and gave another concession to the same company in Krumovgrad. So it looks like the backroom's still going on. This topic was very fashionable last year and pό, when a coup took place in Bulgaria, fortunately Here it is now, I see it: on a super important issue the plenary is silent, the main parliamentary groups that govern, whose government is silent and do not say why they do not want to stop a concession, which is obviously bad for Bulgaria. Once again, I turn, in conclusion, to the conscience of all of you, to vote for this draft decision, to end this concession and then to make it clear whether there is really no money in Bulgaria, or whether it is a lie that we have listened to for 25 years. There is money, there is opportunity for Bulgarians to live better. However, if the National Assembly is giving up this opportunity, it is better to break up. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u27	Are there any lines, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Siderov, do not speculate here from this tribune with the position of BSP left Bulgaria. In the years we, as a party, have had an absolutely consistent position. We will express it today and you will see it about how national wealth should be managed. We, as representatives of the left-wing party, have done perhaps the most to change these concession contracts. If I am not mistaken, March 2009 there was a signed Memorandum even with this concessionaire and was then covered and stopped by the government of GERB. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]] So, very please, in no way abuse our position! It is principled and it is for natural wealth to be used as efficiently as possible in the interest of the development of the state. We will never give up on this position.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u29	Second line? A hole, Mr. Siderov? You won't use it. Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will very briefly address all my colleagues from "Attack" because if someone's memory is having an affair, most of us are not. You're talking about a unique opportunity we have right now. I can also say that you have had the unique opportunity for a year and a half since you were part of the ruling majority of the Triple Coalition. [[(Sighs: "Eeeee!"........................................................................................................]] You haven't once introduced such a bill in a year and a half. [[(Voices by "Attacka": ……]] Then why didn't you bring it in?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u31	Please, no lines! Colleagues, please don't disturb the order, there are rules and it's been followed since last week.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u32	Then you had the golden opportunity, very golden. I personally saw your golden opportunity, which was expressed in the creation of a quorum and so on. Obviously, the elections are coming up, but no matter how populistic you try to set people up and tell them how social you are and how much you think about them... You had the opportunity. You talked to the coalition partners every day. Mr. Oresharski himself admitted here that you were with him every other day to discuss, so you had the opportunity. Why didn't you use it then, and now you want us to have some kind of guilt or responsibility? So if you forget, we don't forget, people don't forget either. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u33	Thank you. First line, Ilian Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u34	Madam President, colleagues! Mr. Mihov, I feel like you're lying like a gypsy. [[Noise and disapproving lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u35	Mr. Todorov, I ask that the means of expression be assessed in view of the place from which you speak. First reminder!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u36	In the Forty-second National Assembly, gentlemen of GERB, "Attack" submitted this same project. In the committees GERB, BSP and DPS voted against. [[(Shouting:) Bravo! Bravo! (Applause from "Attack.")]] Which is the Triple Coalition, who ruled? Unlike GERB, there is no cleaning lady in the Council of Ministers. We've never ruled for a second. We've never had a minister, a deputy minister, a governor, a mayor. You, together with BSP and DPS in the Forty-second National Assembly, once again rejected this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u37	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u38	Now you're going out, and with all your insolence you're saying, "But we remember." What do you remember? Let's vote to break this humiliating treaty for Bulgaria and let the state earn some millions. Why don't you want to? I'm just gonna give you guys an example, because you're sitting here without an excuse, and you're not really saying anything like mice... [[Noise and disapproving lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u39	In Sudan, the concession fees are five... [[Noise and disapproving lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u40	I take your word for it, Mr. Todorov, for insulting qualifications to the MPs. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u41	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I think we have all become clear and we have seen the true face of the party. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u42	Mr. Slavov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u43	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going to ask the importers a very brief question, although I don't expect them to answer, given what I heard earlier.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u44	The questions to the ministers from the cabinet in parliamentary control. Now you have the opportunity in the debate to give an opinion on the draft decision to the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u45	Okay, I'll do it in the form of an opinion on the submitted proposal. It disturbs me that they said from this tribune that they do not even know how much this company's profit is in the past years, and it is public and can be found in any register if desired. In fact, I recommend that they read a very good analysis of analyst Georgi Georgiev, who put his name on it and wrote how this company pays profit tax in 2013 more than the top 6 of the largest Russian investments paid together in Bulgaria. I very much hope that their approach will be complex to all investors in Bulgaria and not selective to one or another company. That's what I'm trying to tell them. For their information, in order to know, the company declared around 400 million revenues in 2013, of which a profit of 200 million. You can decide for yourself how much is the profit paid in the Bulgarian treasury by this company. I am curious, however, why did this top 6 of the largest Russian investments pay about zero profit tax in total? This is the other interesting question that, if they want, they can explain it to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u46	Your second question is beyond the debate we are having right now. Is there a first line? Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u47	Mr. Slavov, you're giving us a source here, Georgi Georgiev. Before Mrs. President interrupted me, I wanted to say: Did you know that while "Dundee Precious Metals" is paying a 0.75 per cent fee in Bulgaria, in Sudan, a country that is run by a military Islamic junta to get a gold concession, you have to pay 4-5%. We're talking about a third world country. There is no country in the world that gives its gold fortunes for 0.75%. I'll give you an example: concessions given for the gold fields in Mexico are up to 30%. You're coming out now, you're quoting some guy that none of us here have even heard from him, George Georgiev, what he said. Do you understand that all the time when we say, "Let's raise the money," you say, "No, there's no money!" Let's raise the wages! That's where the money goes to those companies that you don't want to break the contract with now. I want to ask why. Do these companies pay you to buy the election later? That's what I want to ask you. Is that why you want to break the contracts?! [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u48	Another line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u49	I have not heard an answer to the question that I have put, but the replicator will note that, unlike "Attack" who no longer know how many parliaments are present, most of the colleagues from the Reformation Block are recent and we see no reason why you have not previously proposed changes in these concession contracts and you are submitting the same proposal. [[Unacceptable lines from "Attack."]] What we have heard is that the contracts that were once signed in the distant 1997 and 1998 were then conveniently renegotiated and the clause for re-negotiating the deductions to be paid from what was received were removed and greatly reduced. Where were you at the time of the NDSV, put these questions and react? I have a memory that you had representatives here at the time. These are the essential questions that you have not answered. Once again, I return you to what I said about analyst Georgi Georgiev. I said it about people who obviously didn't bother to check in the register and in the Trade Register how much the financial statements are and to make their simple account this way, and for your convenience, so you can get the ready-breeding information and read it easily. Otherwise, you will read the same in the Trade Register, and the question remains how can a company pay such a profit tax, and the biggest, with billions of turnovers here Russian companies, pay zero. I still can't explain it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Any other speeches? [[From the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Attack" want the floor in the manner of conduct.]] However, if you do not speak in the manner of conduct, you will suffer all the consequences. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the remark. I refer to the leadership of the People's Representation in the National Assembly to behave as the first among the Equals and when there is a Member of the National Assembly who has not read and misled other Members of the National Assembly that the Party of Atakas has not submitted one draft decision or another, you are interrupting them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u52	You've already said that in a previous statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u53	The attack party has duly imported. You, as a Member of the National Assembly of at least three national meetings and as Head of this meeting at the moment, should stop these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u54	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put the following to the vote. Project! DECISION terminating existing concession contracts for the extraction of gold, precious and rare metals The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Government to take the necessary measures to terminate existing concession contracts for the extraction of gold, rare and precious metals. 2. It obliges the government to establish a Strategy for the Development of the Industry and to propose a new legal and regulatory framework. ............................................... Dear colleagues, please vote. They voted 132 MPs: 45, against 41, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u55	Colleagues, honourable and not so honorable gentlemen of the patriots! We are proposing a re-voting from Ataka, because, indeed, these hundreds of millions and billions, which, instead of currently entering the state budget and the Bulgarian living better with them, go into the pockets of foreign colonists. We're proposing a re-vote. If you really are the patriots you claim to be, support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u56	Revoting, coworkers. Vote 138 MPs: 48 against 43 abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. Irena Kotseva procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u57	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am making a procedural proposal the deadline for submitting written proposals for amendment and supplement to a draft adopted in the first vote.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u58	Is there any feedback? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mrs. Kotseva. Vote 117 MPs: 109, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I ask that we vote on my proposal to extend the period between first and second readings with seven days of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u60	Is there another suggestion, contrary to that? I won't. I put to the vote Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal to extend the period between first and second readings for proposals under the Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act by seven days. They voted 107 MPs: 94, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. I don't see any other procedures. Moving on to point two: The amount to be reported in this column shall be the amount to be reported in this row. Importers are Rumen Yonchev and a group of MPs. I recall that the debates on this bill, previously the opinions of the committees and the presentation of the importers, took place in the plenary sitting on 13 May 2015. We should continue to discuss this draft in debate mode. So far, the following MPs have taken the following attitude: Georgi Andonov, Evgeni Stoev and Svetla Bachvarova. The remaining time of the parliamentary groups, which is not extended, is as follows: GERB Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Here you go, Mr. Kenov. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the previous meeting, when the Law on Amendment and Supplement was debated, a lot of arguments were put forward, mainly by the GERB Parliamentary Group, that nearly 38 " 40% of the reduced excise fuel is sold through farmers and so on. The entire calculation was made on the basis of a reference that the National Revenue Agency had taken from the Ministry of Agriculture, which reflected that 900 million litres of gas oil were used through the reduced excise fuel supply system. However, this figure was ultimately speculative and very false. On Friday, during parliamentary control, the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry confirmed that it was not true at all. There are no such figures as the 900 million litres of gas that have been granted to farmers. There are 260 million liters provided. In simple terms, the argument that nearly 40% of the fuel is sold by farmers is incorrect. The Minister of Agriculture and Forest confirmed it from this tribune a few days ago. Currently, Bulgarian farmers are not in color. One of them, if he can afford it, will set aside 15 grand. lv. for an investment to build a service gas station that meets the requirements that we introduced, but it simply does not have the opportunity to allocate such funds. A separation of such funds can be made by large companies, from the so-called latifundists who watch tens of thousands of acres of land. However, there are farmers with 1000, 2000, 3,000 acres, who will load their budget further, will reduce profits, and some will even lose. My request is that you reconsider your position. Untrue are the data the NRA has provided. The overall decision of the largest parliamentary group cannot be based on false data. How the mistake happened, who made it doesn't matter. The important thing is that such data simply does not exist. I ask you to change your opinion at this time and support this amendment, because we are really putting all small and medium-sized Bulgarian farmers in a very difficult position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Kenov. - What's the line? There are no lines. To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The patriotic front will support this bill not only as a co-operator, but also as a parliamentary group, which in January very sharply alarmed and showed documents, respectively, how it is handled against farmers. Perhaps many of you have forgotten that with the adoption of the State Budget Act these amendments were made in art. 118 of the Value Added Tax Act. As early as January 7th, honourable Members, an order was issued, farmers sent it to the Patriot Front Group, with which mass checks began whether farmers had already installed such measuring instruments. However, there are some interesting questions. Firstly, why such a mass check ran to be done in the middle of winter when it was very clear that no one could react so quickly to the implementation of Regulation H-18.? It's more interesting, though. Here I will support what my colleague Kenov said that in fact a huge part of small farmers have bought the fuel and at the price have paid all the rates, taxes, excise duties and so on, but they have bought it to produce and not to sell it and trade with it. It's the first paradox. If these farmers bought this fuel to trade with it, they are already in violation of a number of laws in the Republic of Bulgaria. Accordingly, it is normal for illegal trade to bear all types of sanctions under Bulgarian law. However, when we were interested, we asked the relevant institutions and asked them to provide us with data on such illegal trade precisely from farmers, we did not receive such information. This was shocking.. on what basis then the correction should have been made? In fact, a very interesting question arises: was the repair made to serve someone's corporate interests and to target a stream of fuel consumers to a particular brand of gas stations? Now, if you look to the left, you will see that precisely the patriots who thought a lot about the Bulgarian economy, in fact, for those who produce and are the most important in the Bulgarian economy, will see that they are gone. Why aren't they here? Because perhaps the targeting was to a particular brand that sponsored this great nationalist party. As colleague Slavov said, she paid zero taxes. Isn't that right, colleague Slavov? Of course it is. I ask and appeal to all colleagues: to lend a hand to the Bulgarian farmers. It is clear that our manufacturers work under very difficult conditions. It is clear, unfortunately, that we are very behind in technology. Thus, with the change introduced in the Value Added Tax Act, not only will we not help, we will harm. The patriotic front will therefore support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Dobrin Danev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the spirit of the speeches of colleagues before me, I would like to give out some data that were presented at the debates a few days ago when we commented on this amendment of the Law. We are talking about the annual undeclared amount of fuel, which in Bulgaria is about 1 billion. 228 million liters. That's 36.2% of total consumption. From this fuel the share of transport is 34.5%; the share of agriculture is 48.1%. As a figure, this makes 590 million litres of consumption in the sector of rural holding as unregulated supply. Of the data the Ministry of Finance provided us at a Commission meeting, the loss of hidden taxes amounts to about a billion and 100 billion and 200 million. lv. At the same time, the objects from which the charging of own vehicles is carried out are just over 30 thousand. The proposals for amendments to Regulation 18, which were made after quite a lot of discussions, are for stationary underground tanks, all sites with over 1000 liters to be equipped with level meters and electronic fiscal memory systems. At the same time, for those below 1000 liters, the current regime remains, namely The colleague, who spoke shortly before me, found and delivered information that Bulgarian farmers consume about 260 liters of fuel annually. According to statistics, the land under cultivation is around 35 million. Dekara and according to the estimated data 7 liters per decare annual processing, this makes it really about 240 million. Literature of fuel. What does it turn out to be? In agriculture, we have unregulated supplies, supplies for which no taxes have been paid, about 590 million. A gallon, like I told you before. This means that the entire agricultural sector, spending 260 million, works by not paying its taxes or working on undeclared quantities of fuel, plus another 350 million. Liters which are then placed on the black market. You can see that in this as data that the Ministry of Finance has provided us, there is really some confusion and in itself there is really confusion. At a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, we looked at companies' offers for delivery on level meters and fiscal devices. They were several, but each made an offer for each of the farmers for over 10,000. lv. In this case, assuming that the data of the Ministry of Finance for hidden taxes of billions and 100 billion and 200 million. BGN, and assuming that we have 30 thousand such producers, I make the following proposal: let the Ministry of Finance finance these producers, 30 thousand in number, 10 thousand. BGN, which makes about 300 million, and if we believe that the problem is in farmers and it is solved in this way, the treasury will enter a billion and 100 billion and 200 million. BGN, and at 300 million expenses of the Ministry of Finance lv. will remain in revenue from the state budget. The Committee on Agriculture and Food has indeed unanimously adopted this proposal. In informal talks with all colleagues of all political forces, we had a unanimous view that the proposal in the Law on Value Added Tax at the end of last year was either not considered or simply will not solve the problem. Indeed, as one colleague said, there are white spots in taxation. There may be, but they are not in the sector of..... and I think they are quite elsewhere and the problem, if it has to be solved, is in the ten large businesses, namely producers and large traders... importers. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I implore you to support our proposal in art. 118, para. 9th para. 11 in the Law on Value Added Tax, namely persons who are registered farmers and do not sell liquid fuels shall not be subject to registration under para. 8. I therefore call on you to vote on our proposal to amend the Value Added Tax Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Danev. As for the proposals you have made, you can present them when the time comes, not during this bill. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr Hughesman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I ask you to support this Law because I am a direct consumer of fuel in agriculture and I will tell you why. [[Radio, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u68	Are you declaring a conflict of interest right now and in this way?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u69	No, but in agriculture, I was a farmer and I know every detail of agriculture. Note that let us not seek the devil in the fields of Bulgaria. The Devil is not on the fields of Bulgaria. The devil can spread in public procurement, can be anywhere else, but not on the fields of Bulgaria. The farmers had the hardest experience and had the transition. Now we're trying to burden them with funds again. Only the NRA inclusion software costs $8,000. lv. without VAT, and a tank of 20 tons, along with the software, costs 32,000. lv. without VAT. You won't achieve anything by loading the big companies. They already have it. Everything related to agriculture is so tied to the Agriculture Fund that no farmer can afford to move anywhere, because he will lose much more money than if he goes lying and deceives the state. I am telling you very frankly that there is no real farmer who is going to cheat the state, why he will lose a lot of money. And in agriculture, colleagues said the system is clear about a decare in order to process this Bulgarian land requires 7 liters of fuel, plus-minus half a litre, no more. Why do we have to fall for the NRA when everything's clear? Why do we have to tie them to the NRA? Because we have ortho-photo photos where you can see every farmer working how much land he works. And if there are such people to say, should I say, organisations that use the word "Agriculture" and "A farmer" to steal from the state, then there are authorities, there are NRAs, they can move some bodies, they can work and catch them, but I ask you very much, let us all support. I'm an independent MP because nothing depends on me, but I have an opinion, colleagues. Please let us support this law. All farmers will applaud you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u70	Thank you, dear Mr Hughesman. [[Single applause.]] - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Rumen Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u71	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The subject has been discussed for more than half a year. It has been discussed long and wide in the Committee on Agriculture and Food. You have heard most of the opinions of colleagues in the directions in which the debates were held in the Committee on Agriculture and Food. I'd like to repeat some of the data. If these about 35,000 government gas stations are built, I open up a clamp, and I mean, these are not gas stations, and these are fuel storage sites by farmers who have no character at all as gas stations. If they have to meet the requirements for gas stations, albeit government, the costs they have to make will by no means stop at 10,000. lv. It'll probably be about 20,000. lv. If we consider it true the figure of the Ministry of Finance that they are subject to the construction of 35,000 objects, and multiply them by 20 thousand. lv. We'll see that we have to make one cost of about 700 million. lv. for one year by farmers. I ask: if next year has no effect on the fissure, who is responsible for burdening farmers? There are obviously problems in the system, but the problem is not in farmers. Colleagues say we have 35 million in Bulgaria. acres of arable land, 7 liters per decare, is very easy to estimate, we see what is the amount of fuels that are put into the industry. At meetings in the Committee on Agriculture, farmers said emphatically: "We are ready and we have provided the places where fuel is stored " says the farmers, "we are ready to accept checks 24 hours a day. The problem is, in my opinion, in the so-called "action warehouses', because if the so-called "smuggled fuel' starts from there, it cannot reach consumers. The regulation, which was discussed in the Ministry of Finance for a long time, had a working group of representatives of the Commission on Agriculture, had representatives of the industry. Their latest proposal is for objects over 1000 liters to be with fiscal devices, measuring instruments and so on. Excuse me, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, from this tribune I'm telling you that there are already tractors and combines with tanks for 1500 liters. What's this about? When they weren't ready with the so-called How do we imagine tractors and combines registered under the Control-Technical Inspection Act and not under the Law on other cars moving along these roads? How do we imagine at a gas station ten or twenty tractors or ten or twenty combines? Usually, when an event is carried out, the technique is grouped on the blocks where the events take place, and the owner or user of the technique with small mobile gas stations, which are very simple and very cheap, drives the naphtha there and load up. Even if the request to have government gas stations is made, it is not possible for the equipment that is remote from the gas station 15-20 km away to return to this filling station. The proposal is that these mobile small tanks up to several tons that fuel combines and tractors, and they have fiscal devices. This means that in addition to 35,000 petrol stations, we have to make about as many measuring devices and fiscal devices mounted on mobile vehicles that provide naphtha. Thus, the cost for farmers is increasing sharply. From the Reformation Block, we were inclined to resolve the issue through the Ministry of Finance's Ordinance, thinking of reasonable quantities, for example, of 20 tonnes of capacity and the tanks to be qualified as government filling stations. However, this has not been decided, and for this reason we will support the proposed proposal tabled by colleagues from the other parliamentary groups to amend the Value Added Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u73	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I declare that I have no conflict of interest. I do not deal with agriculture, I do not have tanks, I do not fuel vehicles. I'm not from the Agricultural Commission either. Of course, it was a joke. All the colleagues who spoke earlier were from the Agricultural Commission and quite resonant, as businessmen, they seek to protect in any way the interests of the industry, in which there is nothing wrong. However, we should be looking for some balance between the protection and the interests of a sector, whoever it is, in this case the agricultural sector, and that the state continues to fight the grey economy and successfully fill the budget of this. A few of my colleagues spoke rather emotionally than arguing. I cannot fail to mention that I disagree with some of these statements, such as that the NRA has given false data. If all official data provided by the NRA and the Ministry of Finance are challenged on the basis of some of our purely retail observations, not even research, I think this is incorrect from this tribune. The data that the NRA has provided is a fact and shows that in fuels and gas oil we have a very, very gray economy different are the channels by which they leak. Some of these channels have been closed and limited by changes to other laws, and the effect has been seen in the last four or five months in excise revenue. The fact is that there is a grey economy in the agriculture sector and the fight against it must continue and be fought. There is no way, on the basis of emotions, that the sector must be supported, that there are many small and poor farmers there, so the whole sector must be released from the possibility of being controlled permanently, remotely, by transmitting data. It is also true that all farmers have serious support from the state. This support is not only expressed in support through direct payments, it is also expressed in many other preferences that we have voted with you and we have recorded in a number of laws, including tax laws, including insurance laws. It is not true that the government, that the state should turn its face to farmers. I think the country has seriously turned its face on farmers. It is also true, however, another statement I did not hear previously from this tribune that farmers are of a different caliber, ladies and gentlemen. There are farmers who are large, there are giant farmers, there are small farmers. There are such farmers who make the priority use of agricultural equipment, these are usually large farmers, grain producers, where the mechanization is serious, and here I would not agree with Mr. Bayraktarov that we have a technological slowdown. I certainly wouldn't say that. These farmers load a lot of their own machines. There are also small farmers who are either in vegetable production, or in livestock production, mainly there is the small sector, those who need the state more and more to assist them at the expense of large companies, and they do not use so much fuel in their activities, and even less use fuel to charge some machines. When we talk about farmers, we have to make this difference very carefully, because it will turn out that over 80%, which we are talking about, is actually about large farmers, mainly grain producers with very serious machinery parks. I'm saying this on purpose so we don't speculate with small, poor and so on. Secondly, it is true that the different farmers use a different way of charging their machines. One of them, and I say it's the big ones again, they have their own department gas stations. These are the gas stations that were at the TTZS, the economic courts and with their privatisation in fact with their sale they became owned by various farmers. It is true that other of them use containers of a different caliber, including fixed or mobile tanks located on the territory of the land itself, at the place where they operate and which they use. However, there are also those that have underground tanks, fuel storage vessels that are in much larger sizes. I would also like to draw attention to one more fact. Today, in the proposal made by colleagues and supported by all farmers, it is written: All farmers are to be exempted from having measuring instruments and to transmit remote data to the NRA. However, you know better than I do what it is - a farmer's producer - under the Agricultural Assistance Act, § 1, where it is said: "Agriculture producers are all natural and legal persons who produce raw and/or processed plant and animal production." Speaking and referring to small vegetable producers and livestock farmers, we actually want to open the door and give this exception, this preference to all large, including processing, which are businesses and which cannot in any way be in a different economic or legal requirement for another type of processors, not agricultural plant or animal production. Thus, this can be called discrimination against others or simply lobbying for a certain category of farmers covering this definition. And it seems to me that most of the speeches were in that direction. You know that by order the Ministry of Finance obliged all farmers to declare their vessels. There's already such data. If we see these data in the sector of growing and growing, we will see that there is about 3085 cans or barrels. These are small vessels - apparently 1000 - 1500 - 2000 liters. But we have 3397 stationary tanks, which are in any case 20 and up tons. And as for the mobile tanks that your colleague here mentioned, they're only about 300 in this sector. These are the numbers. So, honourable Members, let us take a reasonable look at this proposal. Let's make a differentiation between those who could really do an illegal activity and those who do not want to be able to do much what and, secondly, do not have such opportunities, and it is the small producers of production that is not an animal, which is a vegetable production that is beekeeping and which the state really needs to help more and more and I would say at the expense of the big ones. Because for years since 2007 Since we are in the European Union, until this year all subsidies for direct payments and all additional payments have been directed towards the big ones, not the small ones. And if you want us to be reasonable and really find the balance between helping those who need help and fighting the gray economy, we should not adopt this way formulated the Law that colleagues have tabled. If you really want us to find the balance, we need to release the small ones to a certain lenght, those who use tanks or cans, and not those who actually have government gas stations, underground or mobile tanks, and that, again, I say, are the big and powerful grain producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u74	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. For a line there is the word MP Stefan Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, your speech was extremely manipulative. I don't know if I should trust you or two ministers. In several parliamentary controls these data were discussed both on my subject and I think on the issues of colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria. First of all, the Minister of Finance said this data was not of the Ministry of Finance and was not of the National Revenue Agency, but was provided by the Ministry of Agriculture. Then we asked the Minister of Agriculture, who was so good here, from this tribune on Friday said that these data were not true. Let's not take out the dirty laundry of some Department of Agriculture officers. We assume it's a mistake. Confident sin is half a sin, basically. The Ministry of Agriculture says there is no such data, that is not the data. You're asking if we're lobbyists. I'm from Karnobat municipality. I grew up in Sungurlare municipality. If I don't lobby for the interests of farmers, who do I lobby for? That's why we're MPs to protect the people of our constituencies! In my opinion, you have a pretty big misconception about the fact that technique is only used in grain production. Agriculture, Mrs. Stoyanova, is highly technological in the Republic of Bulgaria. There's a technique in all industries now. There is a technique in vegetable production, in fruiting, in wine-growing, in livestock farming. It can't be done without equipment and fuel charging. You're talking about the big tanks. In the old courtyards of TCS and AKK there are 12 and 20-ton tanks. People what, take them out and cut them up and put in tanks of 2 and 3 tons? I think we should look at these farmers as consumers. They're not merchants. We can't treat them like merchants. Don't destroy the industry. As you say: I am not a farmer, but I am not an importer of level-based systems! Thank you. Fifteen thousand. lv. are extremely much for a small farmer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u76	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. For a second line, the People's Representative Dobrin Danev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u77	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Stoyanova! First, I agree that we should be well - intentioned, that we should be reasonable in order to find the right solution to the problem. But in order for this to happen, I think we need to find the right criterion for the size of farmers, for farmers, because you said that the goal is for large producers to really be subject to serious control, because the suspicions of abuse are there. But the draft regulation that we know is precisely that 1000 liters and over 1000 liters must be equipped and registered at 7 liters per decare processing per 500 acres per farmer will spend 3500 litres per year. It automatically exits the released and must be registered. I, as someone who knows the industry, do not believe that a farmer with 500 acres of land is a large farmer and he must be subjected to spending so much money to register. So let's find the right criterion on the one hand. On the other hand, I believe that the NRA has sufficient resources in the face of specialists to conduct such physical checks and to control the questionable farmers, as you have said, so that the state can really protect its interests and we can protect the interests of the industry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u78	For the third line, Rumen Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mrs. Stoyanova, I sincerely admire your attempt to get into the topic of........................................... Good luck to you. I regret that within 6 months you have found no time to invite us to the Budget Committee to discuss the Bill and I am sure that colleagues of importers would have made efforts to improve your knowledge of the topic of............................... What's done is done. It's really hard to tell what the cost of fuel is in producing one pound of meat per pound of grain. So you'd better not get into this. Don't go into the topic "big and small" because the sector is one of the most regulated sectors. Yes, it is one of the most supported by the state, but also by the most regulated, most controlled. Each aid comes with dozens of checks, with dozens of documents being filled out and checked over and over again in the years thereafter. So there's not a lot of room for fraud there. And the bigger a producer, the more controlled it is, the more documents and things he has to fill in and submit annually, hourly to all state institutions. The bigger a farmer is, when a bad year happens, when there are problems, loses more, loses everything. He's losing in huge proportions. So that is not the argument for the discussion today, for the debate we are having. Let the debate be very clear. The debate is: who should we control the farmer who is a fuel user or the trader who illegally exports from customs warehouses and sells fuels? That's the subject of the debate. The farmer is a final consumer. Yes, a user with huge tanks, but such is the specific nature of his activity. Everything else would mean we're doing something else. Thank you. I don't want to get into the subject of lobbying at all...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u80	You don't have time. Thank you, dear Mr. Yonchev. For the doppelganger Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, and then the people representative Dimitar Bajraktarov for personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u81	Thank you. Since Mr. Yonchev ended with lobbying, Mr. Kenov started lobbying, I will admit that I am a lobbyist, only that I am a lobbyist for budget revenues. [[Applause from the BDZ.]] For budget revenue, gentlemen! And I will continue to be a lobbyist against the grey economy. [[BSP LB.]] That's right! That was, of course, a fling in connection with your lobbying lines. I expressed my position very calmly and thank Mr Danev that the only one in a line said that we really need to find some balance between continuing to fight the grey economy, including in agriculture, and not killing small producers. None of the pre-speakers, nor of those who gave me a reply, paid no attention to the fact that, in fact, by canceling this requirement with the Law, you also canceled it for the producers of processed animal and plant production. These are the cheese, cheese, milk and the like of a plant nature. Why didn't anyone bring that up? Whether not raising it actually means something else, because I am really okay to look for balance and release those who do not have the opportunity to buy the expensive appliances and could not pay them or to go on the Internet and transmit data. No one wants us to make this difference and it is not a coincidence that the draft law is written so as to release absolutely all farmers and producers of unprocessed production and producers of processed production. Can you imagine how a manufacturer of processed production has vans with which he distributes his production and loads them to his petrol stations, and he will also, by this logic, be released from this. This is why I disagree with Mr. Yonchev's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u82	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. For a personal explanation, the People's Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I asked for a personal explanation for the simple reason that Mrs. Menda Stoyanova mentioned my name, ignoring my delicate statement regarding some data that was exported. I will now tell her, however, as I should have said in my speech in order to end this debate. Mrs. Stoyanova, you said that you were a lobbyist for revenue in the budget, only when the Ministry of Finance exports information about abuse of 560 million litres, and the actual consumption is 260 million litres, I ask: did these farmers water their crops with oil, or did they continue to water their oil?! And is this lobbying to give false information and shift the aspect of the problem into a whole other sector? This is what I wanted to tell you delicately that we are not yet developed technologically, because according to this information, farmers are obviously watering with naphtha, which you also know is not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u84	It's a new technology.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. To speak, the public representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u86	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The debate has become more emotional than what I wanted it to be, and for what it should be. I begin with the personal position that I intend to support the Bill, but I do not accept the exchange of sharp lines in this Chamber, because the idea that was raised by Mrs. Stoyanova for balance is correct, meaning there is no logic of the small farmer to install expensive measuring instruments on it. Let's go to Uncle Gausho's village and tell him how he's supposed to get 15 grand. lv. for measuring instruments. Guys, it doesn't make any sense to do this! The farmer would say, "You, who run the country, did you first install them for the big producers? Did you install them for tobacco manufacturers? In fact, we have accepted them, but because the notification is not given, it is not made by the Ministry of Finance, de facto for the big ones we have not installed them yet.. We know that there is a great resistance even in this National Assembly on this topic, but we want to go to the man in the village and say:... Hello, Uncle Gausho, you must now bring out some 15 thousand. lv. and put on a measuring instrument that will reasonably cause his discontent. Secondly, colleagues, there is one principle and it is a fundamental principle for the management of the state. The cost we make to the farmer should be less than the expected benefit for the state, or to put it simply if uncle Gosho spends that 15 thousand in the village. BGN, would the budget have entered more money so that the measure makes sense? The answer is: it is clear that small farmers do not make sense and there is no point in taking such measures. Thirdly, what is good practice in the world? Yes, we really need to fight the grey economy we have such a problem in Bulgaria, but the good practice is to control the big producers and then gas stations. Colleagues, we, as the National Assembly, after many debates and with great sorrow, have also accepted the restoration of the measuring instruments that the Oresharski cabinet removed. We have recovered them for oil producers, which is a great success for this National Assembly. From now on, colleagues, we need to put a barrier. To the bill that has been tabled by colleagues, we must propose a barrier to balance things out, to separate the large from the small and medium-sized farmers. What to be the barrier is a matter of consultations to begin in the process between first and second readings. I also hear from my colleagues in the Reformation Block all kinds of ideas, but there must be a barrier. It is insane and unacceptable for all farmers to have measuring instruments, but let's think about narrowing down the big ones who really have huge inherited, if you will, tanks where they hold the fuels that are similar to petrol stations. For them, yes. For them, it is logical to introduce this control, but for the little ones who barely survive, to come up with such a large cost of 10-15 thousand. lv. and up is completely unacceptable. The people of the village will say: The people of the parliament have completely lost their minds in this difficult situation to make us pay for expensive meters. Colleagues, I urge you not to continue with the heated debate, but to move on to balance. To distinguish the large ones for which there should be such appliances from the small ones for which such expenditure is unacceptable. To support the Law at first reading and between first and second to find the right balance to make sure that we have achieved both objectives, because both of the objectives that you colleagues defined are important: fighting the grey economy, yes, but not at the price of making the small farmer spend an enormous amount of money, i.e. fighting the grey economy, but also saving the unpowerful spending of the small farmer. Thank you for your attention and I am convinced that the best solution will be found between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u88	Mr. Dimitrov, I thank you for this speech, because in this House you are the only one who has heard my arguments. In addition, I think that you are also a lobbyist for the budget and budget revenue, as far as I have impressions of your legislative initiatives. That is why you speak as I do, and you do not agree to release all farmers, even though they are actually processors and can even be factories for the production of various kinds of food products, processed animal and plant production. I agree with you and I would ask you, therefore, to refrain from voting on the Law in order to make such texts of the Law to find this balance and to do work both to brighten the economy, and to combat the grey economy, including in the agricultural sector, and to really give a shoulder to the small farmers, not to the farmers, but to farmers who need the state to turn to them because it had left them behind for 5-6 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u90	Dear colleagues, the debate is going in a particular direction of decision, only that, Mrs. Stoyanova, I will vote for the draft because we do not need to waste any more time. But I am also about the option to adopt a longer period between first and second readings, in which it is very important to accurately define a large farmer for which there are such measuring instruments and for small and medium-sized ones to be released. You see, the subject has been slow too long and no solution has been found. If we now reject the Bill, we will not help to solve an existing problem for Bulgarian society. So I suggest that we support the Bill in a constructive tone to determine the most accurate limit. This is a complex question.. the exact limit to say so far are the large producers. Yes, for them there will be measuring instruments; yes, they have money to pay them, for them is not a problem; from here on are small and medium-sized, for them there can be no such control. We can't drive, I'm telling you again, Grandpa Gausho in the village, who can barely make ends meet, to take out 15 grand. lv. and buy a meter. Again, I say to you, and ask us, "Why didn't you introduce them to the big companies, but introduce them to me? And we won't be able to answer this man why we haven't introduced them yet for the cigarette manufacturers, for the alcohol producers, they're actually not in yet, but we're introducing them for Grandpa Gosho in the village. We're not gonna be able to answer this guy what we're doing. So let us support the Bill at first reading, but let us also make a longer period between first and second readings, perhaps two weeks to set the right threshold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. To speak, the public representative Petar Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll be very brief. In European practice, I have never seen such a thing press the small producer anywhere. What we're offering here for a ton of limit is 150 acres actually. And we're all over 150 decares starting to press them, follow them. The view of the Patriotic Front is that we should support the development of the sector, which is critical for the Bulgarian economy, and we should not push too hard with its monitoring and pressure. I propose that we adopt the Bill and between first and second readings to propose a reasonable limit for large producers to be monitored. With this, I think we will help the development of Bulgarian agriculture, not try to prevent it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? People's representative Tsvetomir Mihov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Me and the last time the item was on the agenda, I had the opportunity to make a line. It is clear from everything that has been heard that farmers really need to be supported and this measure has an opportunity. Many opinions were made about where the border between a small, medium-sized and large farmer should be. Are you not afraid that at some point it would lead to the big ones being artificially separated, becoming small to be more helpful, or the small ones being large, and so on? Many years ago, fuel, which was lower excise duty and lower rate for farmers' needs, was colored in another color. In this way, it was controlled whether the fuel was for a farmer or for other needs with lower excise duty, or was speculated with normal fuel. Agree that, indeed, in many of the tekesets, the so-called "teceses', there are government gas stations with 1 "2' tanks with 20 or 40 tons. What is the guarantee that, apart from the fuel that is 7 liters per decare, these petrol stations will not fall into fuel, which is a type of contraband and is allegedly used by farmers, but is traded. There's a lot of cases like this, and I think we all know them. What I said last time also, the so-called large farmers have a lot of equipment which, in many cases, coincides with the so-called "cargo cars', type of "gondolas' and so on, which, except during the summer season when producing grain, was sunflower, wheat and so on, in the non-farm period, when it is winter or autumn and so on, these same vehicles are also used for purely transport activity, which generates income from non-farming activities. Please extend the time!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u95	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u96	Very often, there are cases where this fuel, which is normally due to land processing, is used for other needs, from which I say again, income from non-farming is generated. It's a very thin line. Here were expressed opinions and figures about how much the level meters and columns cost. I just wanted to let you know that I took the liberty of making a reference without pretending to be the right one. Figures were said to be worth about 15,000. £15,000, which is not exactly the case. lv. cost the level meter column, and only the level meter is much cheaper. When we talk about the manufacturers who already have the office gas stations, they have their columns, I think many of you have seen them with mobile vessels, two, three, five, 20 tons, which in many cases are on the surface, are not buried in the ground as required, and you know that there are fire and environmental requirements, they have modern columns. The purchase of one level meter is much cheaper, from the order to 5 thousand. lv. Again, I don't know where the boundary between small and large is. No doubt farmers must be supported, but what do we do for those of them who do not have government gas stations? Will they be harmed? Why can some who have the means to afford government gas stations because they are bigger, richer and can maintain such government gas stations, charge a large amount of fuel; and others who cannot afford to have government gas stations and charge at any other gas station, be discriminated against and feel damaged? Let us not create artificial opposition between farmers. Again, we shouldn't put them under the same denominator. There's always grain in every business and every sector that interferes with everyone. Perhaps more meetings with farmers themselves should be initiated from now on and the right formula should be found to be, first, better for fissure and budget and, second, for them. Then the grains that interfere with the entire system will be ignored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u98	Mr. Mihov, I am here for your call that you should discuss in advance, including with the relevant branch organizations, all these measures to clear the chaff from the hay, to come out the grains. Did you know that at all meetings initiated so far by the Ministry of Finance, the same industry organizations come to notice the grain producers. I would like to replicate another part of your speech. You've been talking very correctly all the time about the big farmers who have government gas stations, with columns, with everything else; about the small ones who don't have so much machinery and fuel consumption. But once again, you did not raise the question of agricultural producers, which are also within the scope of farmers and can have their own transport, distribution, own columns, towers, underground, loading this transport, loading their own shops. And you in this preference. And one who is not a farmer of agricultural production, but has another business, similar to distribution and so on, he must have the appropriate measuring instruments. If you would also consider this aspect of your bedside manner.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. People's representative Rumen Hristov has the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Mihov, when we talk about the coloring of fuels during communism, it makes sense, because at that time the ownership of tractors and oil was state-owned and was stolen from so-called physical persons. Now this is the problem of owners of tractors and machines. I don't see any point in going back to this old practice of coloring fuels. Look, things are very simple. There's a single payment scheme. Everyone knows how many acres of land they work. More than 7 litres per decare, as the average fuel consumption comes out, the excise duty is passed on to the farmer. What he does with that oil is his problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u101	How's that gonna be his problem?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u102	No, no, no, please! He's entitled to it, and whether he spends his oil at the beginning of the season on his jeep, and then he buys without excise, is his problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u103	Or will he sell it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u104	So how? Don't you get that much oil on 100 acres? Just because you're using it for something else, not to process the levels, it means buying expensive oil to process the levels. With regard to control at the gas stations, see, I can't understand the logic of the Ministry of Finance. When a fuel user who has his own gas station or fuel storage place receives the fuel, the same day his supplier sends an electronic invoice to the National Revenue Agency. On the same day, whoever receives the fuel also releases an electronic invoice to the National Revenue Agency. I can't figure out what the problem is. He's paying. Anyone who takes a quantity of naphtha, fuel for use for their own use shall pay the value of fuel, excise duty and value added tax. What's the problem? I can't figure it out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Third line. "The People's Representative Firihan Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Mihov! Congratulations, you've done a great job of dusting the ball till the break. You didn't say anything. Therefore, with regard to the substance of your speech, I do not have a reply, because you have come all the way to the colored fuel. I take advantage of my right to be here and make a procedural proposal, Mr. Chairman, to vote on the bill before the break. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u107	We're not done with the procedure. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u108	My fellow Members, I'm going to start backwards. I don't know what's wrong with the lady finding in the colored fuel. Go for a walk to Greece. The fuel for agricultural needs there is coloured red, and not only there, but in many European countries. Do we have to come up with the hot water? You understand things very much, but take a walk to Greece, Germany or Austria. There, the fuel, which is different excise, is coloured. One is the color for heating, one color for farmers, one color for normal use. Can we not accept this practice that more developed countries have adopted? I don't know what he's beating about or what ball he's talking about. To a fellow reformer's block, protect God from those who charge their fuel into SUVs. It's a good thing the planes aren't on diesel, because if we take off the excise duty on petrol, they can charge the yachts and the planes with gasoline, these farmers aren't at all remorseful! Please! It's untenable things he'll use for whatever fuel he wants! The one who is registered as a farmer and has the task of cleaning a mountain area, a lawn, receives twice as much subsidy. His only job of the year is to clean it, mow it once. He also takes 7 l per dka, right? The one who handles the plow, digs, reaps again 7 liters per decare because it has a single rate. I can't agree with you that at some point he can use the extra fuel for whatever he wants. By that logic, when you said he could charge, use them differently, he could sell them in black. What is the guarantee that he will not abuse them? Yeah, his machines are newer, they have lower expenses, and the rest sells it on black. I think each and every one of you has witnessed fuel cans being carried around. According to Mrs. Stoyanova's line, I will say this. Indeed, there may be a more serious and thorough debate ahead, as I said in my speech, in order to avoid opposition between small and large processors, producers and so on. It's a long theme. You know that this opposition has been based a long time ago when they were divided into vegetable producers, grain producers and so on. Let us not introduce ourselves with our competence further opposition in the industry. That's why I'm saying it's a good topic, but it requires more debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u109	Thank you. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u110	Dear Mr. President, in order to keep all the Members, Points and Allines of the Rules, I am making a procedural proposal to extend the debate to a vote on the point. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u111	A reverse opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am doing the reverse procedure and it is based on a text in the Rules, which fixed the time for parliamentary control and rest before it, so I think it is not subject to this type of vote, as parliamentary control is fixed in the Rules and is set at 12:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u113	The time of rest is not very important in art. No. 104, para. 1 is written that the last up to two hours are dedicated to parliamentary control, as is today's By the way, if we finish parliamentary control early, there will be time to proceed with this point. Do you still want to vote? [[Noise and lines.]] I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Ferihan Ahmedova. They voted 124 MPs: 69, 33, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from DPS.]] Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, as you said the holiday was not fixed, I, on behalf of the political party group GERB, want half an hour's rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u115	Twenty minutes of rest. 12:00 we continue with parliamentary control. One message: Dear colleagues, the children's exhibition will be opened at 11.30 in the Northern lobby. The talented authors are from the art school of the New Masters in Kyustendil. They have dedicated their works to International Child's Day. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u116	Dear MPs, it's a minute after twelve. For the first Wednesday of each month the weather is determined for: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY C.E. 104 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING, the so-called The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Borisov, Deputy Prime Ministers Mrs. Bachvarova, Mr. Donchev, we are also expecting Mr. Kalfin. Ms. Kuneva cannot participate in today's control because of commitments outside the country. I'm reminding you of the procedure. Each parliamentary group in the order of its number shall have the right in two rounds to address one question to the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister, and then an independent MP may address one question. Upon completion of the first round of questions of the parliamentary groups, the second round shall be moved to the second round. First in number is the parliamentary group of GERB. Is there a question from the parliamentary group? Mrs. Hubenova will ask the first question. Mr. Kalfin is here. Here you go, Mrs. Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u117	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to Mr. Tomislav Donchev. Mr. Donchev, at the Nineth Way to EU Funds Conference, which was held on 19 May 2015 at the initiative of KRIB, in which you participated, in your statements you said that Bulgaria is currently negotiating its inclusion in the European initiative to support small and medium-sized businesses. I think this is very useful because we all know that this initiative does not require co-financing from the country that applied for participation and that this will be extremely useful for business, as we have the opportunity to apply for about 100 million. Euros under this Programme. I think that it will be useful for all MPs to get more information about what exactly the Programme is, how we will participate in it and when you really see it starting for the Bulgarian business, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. Mr. Donchev, you have an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Hubenova, nearly two years ago, the European Commission, together with the European Investment Bank, launched the so-called Initiative It is true that in the last month and a half there are intensive negotiations between the Bulgarian government and representatives of the European Commission, together with the European Investment Fund for Bulgaria's inclusion in this Initiative. What is basically agreed.. we are talking about an operational process, however, is Bulgaria's participation with a sum of just over 100 million. Euros. From now on, in order to materialise Bulgaria's participation, a new operational programme, for which a decision of the Council of Ministers has been made today, should be decided where the managing authority will be In view of the Action Plan that we have developed and followed, all procedures should be completed by the end of 2015. Several further decisions of the Council of Ministers are needed, including for the amendment of the Partnership Agreement. When a financing agreement is reached after the approval of the Programme by the European Commission, it must be proposed for ratification of the Bulgarian Parliament. This is what I am counting on to happen by the end of this year at the latest, so that the resource is available to the Bulgarian companies immediately afterwards. Characteristic of the Programme is that it does not require national co-financing a major advantage, no part of the procedures that are followed in the other operational programmes, e.g. as a preliminary impact assessment, is needed because it is working on a type model made by the European Investment Fund. The most important one is the possibility of providing additional resources from the Horizon 2020 programmes, COSME, which gives additional chances for easy, cheap access to credit resources of the Bulgarian small and medium-sized enterprises. The remaining amount of nearly 650 million. EUR provided for financial instruments, the cabinet has the ambition to manage here in Bulgaria, in the form of the so-called Fund of the Funds. I remind you that financial instruments are provided for in a large part of the operational programmes, as well as in the Rural Development Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u120	The line is Mrs. Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u121	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. I think that for all those present in this House, who are representatives of the regions, as well as for the whole business, it is extremely important to provide maximum resources for business development, because we all know that without economic development there could be a strong reform in all other public sectors, such as education and health care. My second question to you will be related to what I said.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u122	In the line you can specify an additional...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u123	Yes, yes, in my line I will ask a question that is related to what you just said with the Fund Fund. I'm going to ask you for a little more clarification on this subject because small and medium-sized businesses need to have information, and I think we are the people who need to bring it down to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u124	A hole, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u125	Dear Mrs. Hubenova, perhaps you are well aware that since the 2007-2013 programming period, we have been testing the financial instruments for the first time In this programming period, the share of financial instruments is increased. Its total share reaches nearly 10% of the entire financial framework, as a share of the Operational Program Innovations and Competitiveness. It's even bigger than a quarter. The fact is that the future is the financial instruments. Henceforth, free funding, so characteristic of European programmes, will be combined with financial engineering, which is essentially retributive funding, simplistically speaking, resembles credit, with the difference that access to resources is much easier, the same degree of guarantee is not needed, and interest rates are much lower than market rates. Although to a certain extent it is not as attractive as free funding, it is worth noting that the resource is not lost here. Revolving the funds, they can be used even decades after the completion of the respective programming period. The Fund is a bold initiative of the Bulgarian government. Driven by the imperative that we must accumulate national capacity in this direction, we said three months ago to the European Commission that we have ambition in such a direction, a deliberate structure will be created that will manage the funds. The great advantage, besides the build-up of national capacity, is the knowledge of regional specifics. After all, even if we are talking about the Operational Programme "Regions in growth" and about innovation and competitiveness, the Rural Development Programme, the Environment Programme, the................................... these are the programmes in which there will be financial instruments. The implementation of each of them needs one compliance with the specific Bulgarian conditions.. something which even the best experts, for example, from the European Investment Fund, would have been difficult to do insofar as they are working on a standardised model. Of course, in the structuring of the institution, which is operationally called the Funds Fund, all available expertise will be used, including international financial institutions, as well as to ensure professional governance, we have the ambition to attract people from the market, proven experts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u126	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. I would like to inform the Members of the National Assembly that students from the high school are on the balcony in Vidin who are monitoring the current blitz control. [[Applause.]] The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria is now in order. I ask for a question on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u127	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Prime Minister, the organizational and technical preparation of the elections is the government's commitment. So it is written in the Election Code, both in the current and previous, and in all electoral laws so far. For now, I will spare you the question of how the government prepares fair, democratic and free elections because...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u128	You set it up with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u129	... according to your ministers, it takes technological time for this preparation to be with concrete results. However, I am going to ask you a specific question that relates to the honesty of the elections and which has very seriously stirred up the spirits in recent days. It's about the mass resettlement of voters. Nearly 100,000. people have reregistered since the beginning of this year, and in an opposite to the expected trend, namely from large cities to small municipalities, from the center to the periphery. I know your election platform well, the 200-page management program. There is no such solution to the problem of depopulation of remote regions, so I do not expect this to be an element of the government's management programme. Rather, to be as correct as possible, I must say that this issue is not a party issue, as the abuse of voters to change the vote in the upcoming local elections is used by absolutely all mayors, in the sense of mayors of all colors, and candidates for mayors of all party plants. Moreover, I have to make a second clarification about this voter-retribution, this election migration is done absolutely in violation of the Law, because the Law does not allow 40 people to register in a barn, or 25 people to register in a corridor room. My question to you is: as the head of the government responsible for preparing the elections, what measures will you take to comply with the Law, to end these election outrage? When I'm ready to give you a hint. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We have introduced two bills to resolve this problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u130	Who changed § 16? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u131	Dear Members of Parliament, I thought that after enough Blitz control meetings, it is not necessary every time to recall the text of art. No. 104, para. 1: The Prime Ministers are told to the National Assembly an answer to an up-to-date oral question concerning the general policy of the government. If you think this is a common government policy, Mrs. Manolova, I do not think so, but I see that the Prime Minister is ready to answer you. You don't have the right question at all. [[Noise and lines.]] This is a question of parliamentary control. You asked such a question to the Prime Minister and he was admitted for an answer on Friday. You abuse the rules of art. 104. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Your question is not correct at all, but the Prime Minister is willing to answer. We're listening, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, many weeks before this question the chiefs of printing came to me and by the way tomorrow at 9:00 and Mr. Kanev will be at this meeting. I had a conversation with them at their request that, under the current Law, technologically, they could not cope with printing such a huge number and with such requirements as securities, newsletters. After that, I invited the Central Election Commission to attend a meeting. I asked them to come and meet with all the parliamentary groups to explain the issue as neutrally as possible. As far as I know, there is a solution, but if Mr. Kanev wishes, he can say what they have decided. I saw he was here. I'll know tomorrow morning at 9:00. At the same time, a few weeks ago, I assigned to Mrs. Bachvarova, checks have already been sent to all these addresses, where there is such a crowding and registration of people, which, as you said, is certainly not a problem of a party or the government, it is simply unacceptable to do. Clearly, at a single address, having 40 - 50 people, they did not go there to live. There's no way they can do that technologically. For this purpose, the checks on the address registration I hope soon, perhaps more correct was that for Mrs. Bachvarova to send it, and she is here, if the check is completed, their registrations will be cancelled. As for the laws you have tabled, you could decide that in Parliament. I wouldn't even want to interfere with this because it's not right, and I'm taking the view that the highest legal thought and competence on this subject is in this room, so that's what I'm hoping for. In a word, this outrage I hope will end. I've also interviewed the D.A.'s office so they can work this out quickly. That was kind of the question. As far as I know, I have written. If you could, now that I've answered, acknowledge my written question, I'd be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u133	Line, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u134	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Prime Minister, I wanted you to personally engage and state your position regarding the attempt to manipulate the elections in autumn with a mass overcrowding of voters. [[(Shouting ……]] I did it because in relation to the bills we have tabled, we have opinions from your ministers, in which your ministers behave more as party functionaries than as Bulgarian ministers. I am stating that the prosecution can do any checks, but it does not have the authority to delete registrations. Any checks can be carried out by civil servants, but if there is no mechanism for deletion of registrations, they will not be deleted, and despite the sanctions that 100 thousand. people will vote in small municipalities and will massively change the vote for municipal councillors and mayors. So what I expect is also Minister Bachvarova and Minister Pavlova, whose support we need in order for these amendments to the legislation to be adopted, namely, Mrs. Bachvarova, in all cases where there are violations of the Law in the registration of citizens for the purpose of elections, these registrations should be cancelled. This is the only effective countering of this process. And we here, from this tribune, and the head of the government, and the opposition, say to the Bulgarian citizens: We will stop the attempts to manipulate. We're about fair elections, it makes sense to vote! Because what else is the point, if 200 people are enrolled in a small community, the rest of them should go to the polls at all? That's the point. And as for the printing of the ballots, this is another topic for which we are patiently waiting for the government's decision. Once it is presented, we will express our opinion. But we insist that there be strict control, as it was during the last elections. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And in connection with the calls from the hall...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u135	Thank you. The first time you spoke for 30 seconds more. Thank you, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u136	I would like to warn the MPs from GERB:...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u137	I'll suspend you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u138	Do not harm the election of mayors in small towns! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] That's gonna be some... [[National Representative Maya Manolova continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u139	Thank you. There is a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u140	Don't I have a right to say anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u141	You have the right to a duvet, excuse me, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u142	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Manolova! GERB has won in not to say in all major cities. The worst losses are right in our small settlements. I've always set an example with Nessebar, if you will. There we had at least the councillors. That is where such practices exist, GERB loses. I can prove that to you and it's a fact. Where this can't be done, we're going on the first round. Those are facts. Whether we like it or not, when the facts speak, I trust them. What I understand from your question and comment, and I absolutely join the text you have read... I do not see why, at least I can talk about the parliamentary group of GERB, this text to be challenged or not adopted. Just because it's being imported by Mrs. Manolova doesn't mean we have to go on being stubborn about something that is undoubtedly right. And these two or three sentences, by removing party rhetoric, are that whoever has similarly registered, the word in the Law must be cancelled. And I want to ask you, Danny, this text exactly because I understand that there are four similar laws, you are obviously fighting who passes, who doesn't pass, who doesn't get in and who doesn't get in, more importantly, this text has to be in the Law. So Mrs. Manolova in this regard has made it necessary for these sentences, which you quoted from this tribune, to be accepted because they are correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u143	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mrs. Ahmedova will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u144	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Prime Minister! I will ask you the current current question, as well as on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, and on behalf of the thousands of present-day livestock farmers. Yeah, you heard right about the poor farmers. Because for several months now, the crisis in the dairy sector has grown into a real disaster due to government and Ministry of Agriculture and Food inaction. The buying-in price of raw milk from first-class producers fell dramatically at almost half of the price from a few months ago. But even bigger is the problem for second and third category farms, which are not buying raw milk at all and are currently throwing it out. We are facing a real threat to mass, general destruction of dairy herds due to the inability to sell or sell at a price much below cost. And once it's destroyed, this sector won't get back on its feet. Thousands of small and medium-sized farms will go bankrupt and flow into the army of unemployed and socially weak citizens. An interesting fact against the background of this situation is that milk and milk products are not cheaper by a penny. Currently, the sector is in complete collapse and in particular the production of raw milk. With final strength and patience, farmers expect the state in the face of the government and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to make urgent and adequate decisions to overcome this disaster. On the one hand, the buying-in price is reduced by half, and the price for consumers in the retail chains does not fall. Where does the chain break?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u145	Give me a question, you have six more seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u146	Dear Prime Minister, then a brief marking of the big problem, my specific question is: what are the government's intentions to conduct a comprehensive state policy for the protection of domestic producers and in particular the production of raw milk in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. For an answer, Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u148	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Ahmedova! The sanctions imposed against Russia immediately reflected precisely this sector. I've had meetings with farmers, with dairy farmers, I've heard what they said very carefully. We have also done a lot to compensate them with funds, you know, in companies, in tobacco production and where additional money has been given on the opportunities that the budget has. In parallel to this, the entry of various cheeses, palm oils, dry milk, the opening of this market for European producers also created competition and in its vast majority unfair. Some personnel changes have therefore been imposed in the agencies where control is being carried out. Apart from the Minister of Justice from this tribune and to the mayors: when public procurement is being made there, I have made a commitment to write: Then it is given to our producers, who produce wonderful Bulgarian milk, to have a bigger market and therefore this unfair competition to be terminated because, I repeat: 30 cm. is our milk, and all kinds of concoctions are imported, repackaged and then through public procurement in a mass of public units are realized. So I hope this measure is triggered. In parallel, we have a dialogue with them and are looking for an opportunity for additional compensation, but it is indeed very difficult. In a market economy, the price determines the market. And we in every field can't do whole sectors. Okay, for tobacco producers, we gave 105-107 million because we all realize that these people can't do anything else. At the same time, competition imposes the price on the market. I'll take the alarm. She's mine too. Believe me, there is no inaction on this subject. I meet them almost weekly. There's no way that I've explained this to you, what they want us to take down the VAT on these products. You can only see Romania on 1 June this year from 24% came down to 20%, which is value added tax in Bulgaria. Only for those years, in which thanks to the BSP was paid the 10% flat tax, for which I thank them, Bulgarian citizens have paid billions of dollars in the range of 30 billion at least less money than our Romanian neighbours, which, I repeat, only now came to our levels and only in VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u149	Line, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u150	Dear Mr. Borisov, the accumulation of circumstances such as Russia's imposed commodity embargo, the abolition of quotas for the production of raw milk within the European Community, the introduction of European quality regulations are part of the objective problems, but at the same time there is an extremely increased legal and illegal import of both raw milk and dry milk, semi-finished dairy products and not least palm oil. This legal and illegal import is carried out by both Member States of the European Union and third countries. Some of the legal imports are made at low prices and you know it, and of insufficiently controlled quality, which damages both livestock farmers and consumers in the country and the state budget. And illegal imports take place not without the assistance of state and control authorities. Another point is that the other countries have found a solution to protect their own farmers - solutions such as state support, introduction of national export subsidies, restriction of imports of raw milk and dairy products by introducing requirements for hygiene and veterinary regulations, including with regard to transport requirements and other mechanisms. The measure announced by the government for support under the scheme "de" "per 100 BGN." per cow and 7 leva. on a sheep, it's extremely insufficient. That would cover farmers' losses for no more than a month. Dear Prime Minister, if the government does not take urgent and adequate measures to overcome this disaster in the business sector, and in particular the production of Bulgarian raw milk, you and your government will become the Killers of the business sector and will condemn the Bulgarian consumer to forget the taste of real raw milk. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u151	I ask that the vocabulary be in line with the place where such words are spoken. A hole, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ahmedova, you have actually repeated what I have told you as reasons and the measures we have taken so far. The word you last used does not suit you because, first of all, it is not Bulgarian, but you yourself are aware of the Bulgarian native production, and secondly, it is not true. I don't know if you're from the Kardzhali region, but when the snows killed the animals and caused huge damage, not only did I go personally, but we paid millions of dollars back to all these people. I could have easily said, "Have been insured." That is why we have made these efforts, and that is why we are doing so much to raise more revenue in the budget. I can answer you in an outrageous way to such a word, but you will not find it pleasant. Therefore, I ask you, as I respectfully treat you, there are objective circumstances that are difficult to overcome. It is very easy to say: Give more money and this is the budget, this is what the state has. I can go back to the last year and a half, I repeat, you will not be pleased. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u153	I now expect a question from the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group. Mr. Slavov will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, dear Deputy Prime Minister, dear Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova and concerns the collapse of the DMV system since the beginning of the week. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I ask you to say a little more about this: is it working to remedy the problem, within what deadlines is it expected to be removed? As most colleagues know, at the beginning of the week there was a problem, as far as I have information, with the information system of the DMV it blocked, and for a number of Bulgarian citizens were created very big difficulties which are further strengthened and because they do not really know how long the problem will continue. [[Noise and lines from GERB. A line from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] What will be done in practice to resolve this problem in a shorter time? My request is that you say a little more in this regard.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u155	Mr. Slavov, this is a matter of Friday parliamentary control. As an argument under art. No. 104, para. 1 does not concern a common government policy.. which questions are raised today without the possibility of asking for detailed numerical data, you still have time, reformulate the issue of a common cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u156	I understand, Madam President. You're technically right, of course. I ask it to Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova as Deputy Prime Minister, of course, and to Minister of the Interior, as I am clear that the problem is probably serious and that is why coordination of several resources will be required so that it can be resolved quickly. That's why I'm asking it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u157	For an answer Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u158	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Slavov, the problem is technical. I will answer you because there is a high public interest in it. We've suspended the registration of motor vehicles at the DMV from today until the 4th. We are removing technical problems that exist that are not related to certain policies. I have the assurance of all those who are working on this issue that registration will be restored within the necessary time limit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u159	Mr. Slavov, I hope you have heard the answer to the question from Mr. Toshev, who had stood directly on the line between you and Mrs. Bachvarova, so you have the opportunity to reply. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u160	I heard well, thank you. I didn't see so well, but I heard very well. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for that answer. [[Replication by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Laughter. Awesome.]] As far as I can tell, there'll probably be a solution to the problem by the 4th, which concerns a lot of people. Indeed, this is a very short period of time, for which I thank you. I hope, of course, that the DMV authorities will also be aware of all those citizens who failed within the statutory period to notify the change of ownership and not sanction them, as the delay will obviously not be their fault, but because of the problem with the systems. Thank you. Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u161	Would you like to use the backrest, Mrs. Bachvarova? You had direct visual and verbal contact. [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]] Here comes a question from the Patriot Front Group. Mr. Valeri Simeonov will develop the first question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u162	Dear Madam President, honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On May 27, last Wednesday, from this platform, the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front introduced you to the declaration on the occasion of seven serious problems facing our homeland, which have not yet found a solution. Five of them are addressed to the executive, namely: solving the serious problem in Garmen; taking urgent action to control domestic crime; initiating and building protective facilities and restoring damaged areas of them along our border with our southern neighbour Turkey; ending large-scale abuses and thefts in the field of energy; and certain regulatory changes aimed at limiting illegal logging and timber exports. Mr. Prime Minister, I will present you with this declaration along with our requests for the resolution of these severe problems. My question to you is: will you make a commitment as Prime Minister and from your government to the urgent solution of these five serious problems to our homeland? If you don't mind, I'll give you our statement. [[National Representative Valeri Simeonov gives the declaration to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.]] Thank you. Madam President, we are giving up the second question in blitz control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u163	For an answer, Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Simeonov, Mrs. Bachvarova and I have examined these points with other colleagues and I must tell you that they not only enter into what we signed with you, but are really our first priority. Who's to say he doesn't want to deal with domestic crime?! Of course it's a big problem. I suppose Mrs. Bachvarova, in response, could say them quite specifically. They immediately produce results, especially video surveillance in one of the biggest traffic accidents. Once we put the video surveillance back on and back, to date we have one more killed, not that it's a little compared to last year's period, but somewhere in 18 more people. I repeat, I do not want to go into detail because the purpose of this is to make a commitment, and I take it with a number of measures. As for the fence from 30 km away, 15 are for repair. There are experts out there right now who are deciding that. To make a stronger and more reinforced fence as a facility requires a huge resource. I would like to spare myself, on the other hand, accusations and political comments related to price increases. Therefore, I returned the project to do so so that if we assume that 30 km is 9 million from the previous government, within these parameters they can cope with the next kilometers when the facility is to be built. I hope in days this is ready and started. As far as Garmen is concerned, all state institutions have sent their representatives and the only thing they have heard as a provision to follow the letter, the point of the Law. I hope that the local authorities will also do so, I hope that all institutions will fulfil their obligations. I do not believe that the problem there should continue to escalate. On the contrary, I believe that with the introduction of the law and what it says in the laws, everyone must comply with it and carry out their tasks. I hope that we will have concrete action at these five points as soon as possible and be able to announce them. Let me tell you now that we're going to deal with domestic crime. I don't think anyone in the world has made it through, but we're going to make a huge effort there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u165	The next group, which expects to ask a question, is representatives of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. [[Reply from the National Representative Velizar Enchev.]] I saw you, Mr. Enchev, after the circle of group questions is over, you will have the opportunity as a non-participant in a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u166	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! My question is this: in the press I learned that the economic forum in St. Petersburg between 18th and 22 June will be attended by our two key ministers Mr. Goranov and Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova. Will this be a fact and does it mean that in our relations with Russia, which had cooled down in connection with the sanctions that the European Union imposed on it because of the events in Ukraine, there is some warming? I mean, what are these ministers going to do if that's a fact? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u167	Mr. Petrov, if you think this is a matter of common policy, but anyway, you asked it and I see that it is ready to respond. Colleagues, please read carefully the provision of art. No. 104, para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, by the way, I'm only going to make a second detour. In the export of wood next week we enter, as there is a 112 phone for the police, the fire department, and for any signal that can be given immediately by the citizens. I even invite your representative to go see when it is put into action, because this will allow mobile groups to act immediately. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u169	One hundred sixty-six doesn't work?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u170	It works, but we're introducing it so there's more... [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Yeah. I apologize for the detour. Maybe if you'd invited one of the weathermen from the National Televisions, they'd look better than me, but I can't say cooling and warming. Bulgaria has always had a very clear position, a very friendly position towards all peoples, I would say, let alone those who are Orthodox, Slavic. We have deep roots in our relationship. That, at certain stages, we, strictly complying with the rules that we have adopted as a country of the European Union and NATO, are fulfilling our loyal commitment, we do not believe that this is a cooling on our part. When the entire European Union imposes sanctions, Bulgaria is, I repeat, one of the 28 countries that supported them. That some prime ministers have allowed themselves to go out and say that they have not supported them, you remember, from this tribune I have said to check the transcript of the European Union whether someone there has not supported it, in a sense, not to be misled by words. Of course, then, in a month or two, they start and ask whether a Turkish stream will happen or not. I do not want to comment on colleagues from the Balkans changing positions. We have always said that we want to build a gas hub in Bulgaria and we have maintained this line. Minister Lukarski has recently been.. since your question is about Russia, at an economic forum, and before that Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin was at another forum, we are now invited to St Petersburg and two ministers will go. So we on the Bulgarian side have neither stopped communication nor the normal relations we have with the Russian Federation, and I believe that this is the right policy. The fact is that they said that the South Stream is terminated. The fact is, however, since months have passed, not only has the people from Burgas not been exhausted, every day they watch the pipes being towed, the platforms are working and the seaside is being built outside our zone. So we haven't been the cause of either cooling or warming, we have a hard line on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u171	A line? You won't use it. Now it's the attack group. I see Ilian Todorov is preparing. Here you go, mate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u172	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Minister, I don't know if you're familiar with a case at the American base in Novo Selo. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u173	What's the question?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u174	To the Prime Minister Mr. Borisov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u175	A matter of common policy, bring it to a common policy by asking it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u176	There are two representatives here today. Twenty-five Bulgarian companies who worked in Novo Selo have built the buildings there, brought concrete, fuel and so on. These 25 Bulgarian companies have not received their money from the US state... have literally been lied to, Mr. Prime Minister. Twenty-five Bulgarian companies currently have 3 million to receive. Three hundred thousand. Euros. I have in my hands a list of these 25 companies with addresses. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u177	I would like to remind you of the last sentence:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u178	All right, Madame Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u179	Please, from to a common policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u180	Mr. Prime Minister, my request to you is to meet these people and if you can assist them in order to make it possible for these 25 Bulgarian companies to receive their money from the United States one of the richest countries in the world. I will now provide you with this list and I hope, as everyone in this House was well-meaning just a few months ago to a German firm, and we voted here. You voted in fact, Bulgaria to pay about 4 million. BGN, let us help the Bulgarian companies to get their money from the richest country. [[Comments from GERB. The MP provides the list to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u181	Here you go, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u182	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Todorov, thank you for the list. I, of course, cannot know what labour and financial relationships these companies are in respectively, but rest assured that I will assign to the Minister of War and, accordingly, make reference to me so that I can answer you. I have only one amendment to what you said there are no American bases in Bulgaria. They are Bulgarian bases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u183	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u184	Mr. Prime Minister, yes, according to you there are no American bases in Bulgaria, according to GERB there may be no US troops in Bulgaria as well. I ask you once again to simply cooperate with these people. I repeat, a few months ago the government accepted that Bulgaria should pay nearly 4 million. lv. To a German company. Likewise today help Bulgarian companies so that we do not make double standards and nothing is wrong. Thank you. [[Single applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u185	Would you like to use a hole, Prime Minister? No. Mr. Belemezov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Last month, at the end of May, a working visit was held by the Minister of Economy Mr. Bozidar Lukarski in Moscow with a Bulgarian delegation in which various issues were discussed. The main ones, as well as the main conclusions that were drawn, are that in fact Bulgaria insists on maintaining its traditionally good economic relations with Russia, in the first place. Secondly, it was concluded that the economic and political situation should not affect the direct foreign trade relations between the two countries. Thirdly, emphasis was raised on the introduction of regular meetings of the Intergovernmental Commission for Economic and Scientific and Technical Cooperation, which, by the way, has not met at joint meetings since 2011. The meeting was held in the context of an economic and political crisis, I could say, which was dictated by the sanctions imposed by the European Union to Russia, in accordance with which Russia's contractions to the European Union were imposed. In addition to the political and economic angle, the crisis has somehow also gained a diplomatic one, evident from recent news, from which there is a restriction of access of certain Russian diplomats to the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u187	Please ask the question. The seconds of your time are running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u188	The general question for you is: what is the government's long-term vision regarding bilateral relations with Russia? What were the initial intentions and expectations from the Bulgarian side and were they justified during the negotiations in Russia? Is there a government analysis already made and what are the conclusions and recommendations from it, which directly influence the Bulgarian economy, specifically on the Bulgarian producers, which are part of the foreign trade process?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u189	You're talking 30 seconds longer, Mr. Belemezov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u190	Yes!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u191	No, Mr. Belemezov! Thank you. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u192	Also with regard to farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u193	For an answer, Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u194	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable colleague! I was just talking about it. What impresses me is that even in the Russian Word, so much do not deal with their internal economic issues as here the issues of the various parties that follow. So, when I count them, it becomes a few. How can I tell you? The sanctions and counter-sanctions are losing both sides. Compliance with the Minsk Agreement is mandatory. It is no coincidence that Chancellor Merkel and Francois Hollande and all those who participated in agreements missions say that their compliance will lead to the fall of sanctions. It requires the will of both sides. People die there, a lot of people die there. Now it's pretty much calmer, but it's far from the desired position at this end of the world. When there are sanctions, it is natural that there are losing countries. And they are both the European Union and Russia. Indeed, I accept your question as a great concern, but it is simply my interest in this direction. We have not challenged the Russian side by anything, I repeat, in our actions. For a reason, you see that on all forums and everywhere we participate. There are Russian citizens who are banned from entering the European Union and as part of the sanctions we cannot allow them. At the same time, for years their business has been developing and continuing to develop. Russian companies work well in Bulgaria. No one pursues them or harasses them. But when their boss or representative is on the blacklist, he acquires such citizenship, our services accordingly do not allow it on the territory of the country. Their actions to our ambassadors are also reciprocal, or respectively citizens. Let's look at the Bulgarian interest. And the Bulgarian interest is to extend the life of the V and VI reactor. At the moment, everything that is being done, for great joy and with the cooperation of the Russian side, will be a fact. So I wish these groups good luck, too, quickly, to finish it. As far as South Stream is concerned, I told you, neither they nor we have ceased the project. We're waiting for better times. The gas hub is a great opportunity for us. What else can we do? Give me some advice, I'll discuss it. But I've always been about looking at our Bulgarian interests. God willing, I repeat, the sanctions at the end of this year to play their part, to fall down and restore good relations. On our part, they're not getting worse. So, as you can see, we send a deputy prime minister to every invitation, Minister. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u195	The line, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u196	Dear Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. The specific point of my question was precisely that we must defend the Bulgarian economic interest, which depends on many producers, which are part of the common foreign trade process, being a party to export and import operations. Secondly, the Bulgarian farmer directly bears the negatives of the economic and political situation in question between the European Union and Russia. Thirdly, direct attention should be paid to the fact that bilateral economic relations should definitely not be aggravated due to the political situation as a whole. We welcome precisely the work of the Bulgarian government in this direction, not to be sporadic with single acts, but rather to have a long-term vision in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u197	A hole, Mr. Prime Minister? You won't use it. Mr. Velizar Enchev has the right to ask a question as a MP who does not participate in a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u198	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I have a question concerning the Constitution and the supremacy of the National Assembly over the executive power. I mean, Art. 1 of the Constitution of the People's Republic of Bulgaria, para. 1, Prime Minister, which states that: "Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary management. [[Laughter, excitement, lines.]] Article 62, para. 1 states that: The National Assembly implements the legislative power in our country. My question to you, Prime Minister, is this. On 24 April this year, when the National Assembly adopted a declaration on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the tragedy of the Armenian people, you came to the National Assembly and to the office of the President of Parliament Mrs Tsacheva in the presence of the parliamentary groups of the Patriotic Front, GERB and the Reformation bloc you intervened, that is to say, you introduced how to vote the declaration or, more precisely, what term to be used in the declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u199	Another is your question about the government's common policy. This is a matter of Friday parliamentary control. I gave you the floor to ask a question in the order of art. 104 on the general policy of the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u200	My question is: didn't you, as Prime Minister and Head of the Bulgarian Government, exceed your constitutional powers, when as Head of the Executive, you publicly ordered the National Assembly, and the National Assembly is the principal of the executive, how to vote on a declaration? I am not speaking in any way about the content of the declaration, I am not referring to the declaration, but I am talking about exceeding the powers of the chief of executive. I repeat once again: this is provided that the executive is subordinate to the National Assembly, which is the principal of the Council of Ministers and the executive. I repeat my question once again: do you intend to continue this practice in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u201	Your question is inadmissible under the order of blitz control, but I see that the Prime Minister is ready to answer you. Colleagues, I personally felt uncomfortable during one of the questions to remind you that we are in a blitz control procedure, not a regular Friday control, when we can ask any questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u202	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, I can safely not answer the question, because it is you who are asking me if I respect the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament... Mrs. Tsacheva is already making it clear that what the previous parliament adopted as blitz control in the first week of the month is starting to get a little... I want to find the right word.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u203	It's corrupting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u204	However, it is by no means the goal taken out by the then ruling party. Not to mention that then Oresharski answered only two questions of GERB, and the others were of BSP, DPS and attack and he was leaving. Now, with all due respect, we three deputy prime ministers and I are here to answer 30 questions from eight parties and independent MPs, showing... [[Reply from BSP LB.]] That's what he decided. As you can see, we fully respect each other, and at least you could blame me for not treating Parliament with great respect. I think it's visible. As for what you accuse me of, it's not. For better or worse, I am also chairman of the party's mandate carrier, I am Chairman of the GERB Party. You know that when there is a similar coalition formula with policy-makers parties, it is necessary to keep on many topics meetings, to specify. You can even see that in Parliament's votes on many topics some of the parties do not vote together. When we made the coalition and sat down to talk about establishing the government, we considered that, as the people ordered us, there was no other option: except GERB there was simply no one else to make the government. The others couldn't get enough votes in any combination. Therefore, with all the arrangements with reformers, patriots, ABB that we are different, that we must be diametrically opposed on many topics because of the stability of the state, we were forced to make a government. I do not see anything wrong with seeing and talking to my fellow Members, the chairmen of parliamentary groups. That day you know that we were going to a government meeting with the Romanian cabinet and the Serbian prime minister. Coming through here, I stopped by the parliament to see my colleagues. I can influence GERB here you are right. I can influence them. From then on, Mr. Kanev is gone, but Mr. Simeonov is here. If you think I... You know him a lot better than I do. I see myself and I say hello to him in parliament and twice since we are in the government once in our headquarters, at the beginning, and once in my office on the topic If you think I can influence him, or you don't know him, or me. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. I'm sorry if I inconvenienced you by thinking that I had inspired Radan Kanev and Mr Simeonov to introduce such a thing to their MPs. I stood up to answer you with all due respect. I can still influence GERB. Thank you. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u205	A line, Mr. Enchev? You won't use it. Thank you. We're moving on to round two questions. We start with GERB. Svetlana Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u206	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the situation in the municipality of Garmen focused the attention of almost all Bulgaria over the past few weeks. The tension in this populated area has escalated suddenly and raised a number of questions, which directly concern the causes of this crisis situation, namely: what is the rift in the relationships and normal cohabitation of the people in the municipality of Garmen? Do you not believe that the extreme poverty, low incomes and disadvantage in which most of the people in this area live are at the root of this conflict? These are all reasons to be established and supervised by the structures of your office. Are your subordinates familiar with these people's lifestyles? Have these people been visited? Have they been contacted? As Minister of Labour and Social Policy, you should be informed by your employees of the extremely unacceptable conditions in which these people live. If so, have you planned any preventive, ongoing or future measures to improve the long-term lives of these people? Only adequate social initiatives can cause positive demand in regions predominantly populated with people with low incomes or with almost no income. So you need to clarify whether the population is familiar with the promotion and motivation programmes for starting a job, which is one of the main functions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy? If there have been such initiatives, have you been presented in an accessible and appropriate way for people who are mostly low or almost without any education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angelova, thank you for the question, because many stories have spoken about the events in Garmen in recent days. I think that no matter how much we continue to talk, we will always come up with a problem related to poverty and inequality. You, too, rightly point to your question. I would like to tell you right away that poverty is not dealt with by social policy at least in my opinion. Social policy can even achieve the opposite effect of diverting people from the motivation to seek active education, to actively seek the labour market and to comply with the laws of the state. Social policy is important, but the wealth in Bulgaria is created by the economy, but not only by the economy, but also by the respect of the laws and the activities of the different institutions. You ask if we have initiatives that are aimed at these people and are they familiar with them? Yes, we have a lot of initiatives and they are aimed not only at social policy, but also at creating job opportunities where they are not visible. Such are in agriculture the daily contracts, which I hope Parliament will soon accept. These are the opportunities for farmers to be encouraged from this year so that they can hire people. This is the home-help voucher system that I hope will work by autumn. These are measures that enable people living in agricultural regions to be useful, to start work and to find a labour market. However, the fight against poverty and inequality is much more extensive than these measures. It's about education. It has to do with decent income. And here, too, in the Council of Ministers, I think, including today's decision, which reaffirmed an increase in the minimum wage, in general with the ideas of increasing the minimum income, we are working in this direction. Once again, I would like to emphasise that the subject of poverty is again mainly linked to economic policies, economic development, job opening and adequate education so that people can get involved in this activity. We are continuing to work and I hope that a comprehensive policy relating not only to Roma neighborhoods will become clear more and more clear, but to people who actually live in extreme poverty, who will see greater support. Once again, I would like to call on the National Assembly to look carefully and quickly at these bills, which we have tabled in this regard, which will give real opportunity in remote areas of such people to find employment to be official. The force measures in this case won't help. We also hire labor mediators. There are health mediators. These are people from the community who speak, who stimulate the respective Bulgarian citizens, otherwise in Garmen we have carried out inspections on the 28th, 29th. Together with the other state institutions there are social workers. I can give you specific information related to this, but the problem is principled. He's in Garmen today, he can be elsewhere tomorrow, so for years, the overgrown policy that leads to the poverty of these people and low education must be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u209	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. You won't use the line. Since there are no questions for the Prime Minister, I propose that we thank him for his participation in today's parliamentary control. [[Applause on the right.]] We continue with a question from the group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Iankov will ask it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u210	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova to you is my question. I'm not going to ask you about the topic "Gurmen" but I expect you to rethink and reform your thesis, what you have articulated in space as an assessment, including taking more appropriate action as Minister of the Power Ministry. My specific question to you...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u211	It has to be common policy!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u212	...is regarding the policy of the government and, in particular, the policy of the Ministry of Interior regarding the provision of administrative services to Bulgarian citizens. I took the opportunity of blitzcontrol at the beginning of May to ask you a similar question. You weren't ready then. Now I appeal to you because you do not take the opportunity to explain to the Bulgarian citizens through the media, through all possible ways as a minister what are the measures regarding the problem that has been established, the chaos that has occurred when replacing the personal documents of the Bulgarian citizens. And I call on you, answering my question, to use the parliamentary tribune so that the Bulgarian citizens can hear what measures you have taken, what concrete steps, actions, because this concerns our entire society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u213	For an answer Mrs. Bachvarova. If you get your bearings, Mrs. Bachvarova, what is the common policy on which they ask for clarification from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u214	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Yankov, I hope you also remember which question you asked me. If I start from front to back, I can go backwards because I've been listening to you carefully, but I can figure out what you're really asking me. You also give me qualifications for the way you handled the Germen case without any arguments. That I do not accept and believe is a personal insult for inadequate measures. The second theme of your outpouring was about the chaos with the Bulgarian personal documents. This, too, is an incorrect statement, because there are queues in certain regions when issuing new personal documents. That's not what I'd call a chaos. And I can tell you that perhaps four or five days ago, I signed an order that increases the number of employees in these places, 30 additional, with extended working hours and the removal of lunch break, so that it can be easier and easier to carry out the provision of this service by the Ministry of Interior. The whole process is being monitored. There are other components in it. I can tell you that, as far as the common policy is concerned, this is one of the priority policies currently for the Ministry of Interior in order to ensure the technical and practical implementation of this service.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u215	The line, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u216	Honourable President, honourable Members, gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! Mrs. Bachvarova, my question was specifically regarding the policy relating to the administrative services of citizens and the measures that you have taken. What you have said are actions that you could immediately take on the first day, but it is good that you do not justify yourself with the You can't imagine either. Otherwise, in terms of how you take my words, I urge you to reconsider again whether you have adequately expressed yourself on the subject of the "Gurmen" on the problems that have arisen and whether you can take more appropriate measures, in particular on the case in question. I expected from you, and I'm not satisfied with the measures that you shared and said...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u217	You don't have the opportunity to express your attitude on Friday to the other kind of control, Mr. Yankov. You won't use the hole, Mrs. Bachvarova. The Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has no MPs in the Chamber. I'm sorry, Mr. Imamov, he's in charge. No question. I apologize. The Reformation Block Group will not have a second question. The patriotic front also said they didn't have a second question. BBC doesn't have a question. There are no Members of the National Assembly. ABB, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers! My fellow Members, I will be very brief so that we do not waste the time of our Deputy Prime Ministers. My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev. You know, it was a tough winter for Bulgaria, even worse for the regions of Smolyan, Kardzhali and Haskovo. The heavy snow that fell remained in history, but it did a lot of damage. The huge tree mass that fell is standing right now. My question is: what is the government's policy regarding raising this table so as not to cause an environmental disaster? Can it be redirected to some social activity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u219	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u220	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, thank you for asking the question, although it is of the utmost degree to the particular. Nor can I be specifically familiar with the volumes of destroyed trees that currently constitute the fallen mass, nor can I know particularly in detail in which part of the country's territory how much such mass is accumulated. In order not to speak naked, I suggest to you through the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, if necessary also of the Ministry of Environment and Water, to carry out an urgent inspection and to inform you orally or in writing. In time, I commit myself if the problem lies in the way you say there is a rotting wood mass, it represents an environmental risk, at the same time it is not able to benefit from an office or socially weak citizens, to check what the possibilities of the legislation are and to propose a solution on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u221	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Kadyev, if you'd like a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think the answer is very accurate. I am pleased with him, and I think that this will respond mostly to our regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u223	Thank you. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? No. The independent MPs took the floor. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we have completed the blitz control procedure. We are continuing with the debate on the Bill on Value Added Tax with the importers "Roumen Yonchev and a group of MPs." We're in a debate procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u224	Are there any Members of Parliament willing to take part in the debate? Colleagues, please take your seats in the hall, I don't see what's happening! I do not see anyone willing to take part in this debate. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers. "Roumen Yonchev and a group of MPs. Vote 87 MPs: 57 against 5, abstention 25. The proposal is not accepted as the quorum is from 65 MPs. Here you go, Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u225	Thank you, Madam President. Since some of the colleagues in the course of the blitz control were not in the Chamber and were unable to exercise their voting rights in due time, I propose a re-vote by asking you to give enough opportunity for everyone to exercise their right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u226	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 115 MPs: 61, against 1, they abstained 53. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to the next point of the weekly program: PROJECT OF THE CHANGE DECISION IN THE CONCESSION OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE DISCLOSURE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF BULGARIA. Importer "Volen Siderov." I don't see any representative from the attack group. I'll read you the project: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Temporary Commission to discuss the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Yavor Bozhilov Notev as a member of the Temporary Commission to discuss the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. There are no reasons for the draft decision. I inform the Members of the National Assembly that the decision to set up a Temporary Commission to discuss the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is promulgated in No. 40 of the Official Journal of the European Union, where Mr. Yavor Notev was elected a member of the Commission by our decision. Mr. Volen Siderov as chairman of the parliamentary group proposes the release of Mr. Notev as a member of this Commission. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm voting on the draft decision I just introduced you to. They voted 88 MPs: 61, against 5, abstention 22. The proposal has not been accepted. The draft is of 65 votes. The next item in our weekly program is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR HEALTH DISCLOSURE. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Adopted on 19 March 2015 in the first vote. In the second reading report, Mrs Daritkova will introduce us to the President of the Commission. Please invite Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u227	Dear Madam President, I really beg your pardon. The Ministry's team was here, but the unpredictability of the blitzcontrol made them go to the Ministry and now they're on their way. We're expecting them any minute now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u228	We're expecting them any minute now. So you start with the report and the debates on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u229	A second vote report on a draft amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, No 502-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2015, adopted on the first vote on 19 March 2015. The claim for amendment and supplement of the Insurance Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u230	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer for the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 75, none, abstention 3. The text of the importer for the name of the Law has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u231	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov § 1 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs § 1 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u232	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u233	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! This proposal suggests that the National Health Insurance Fund will now purchase and not pay for the medical services. Our proposal made under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly is contrary to the fact that................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... By the way, not only § 1, but also in a number of other places in the proposed Bill there are proposals to replace the word "payment" everywhere with "buying" in relation to the Health Insurance Fund. I, and our entire parliamentary group, cannot support such a proposal, because this is contrary to the philosophy and principles on which insurance systems operate. The Health Insurance Fund is assigned the role of a buyer of medical services. It's unacceptable. Terminological changes are not a sufficient condition for improving health care. The functioning of the health system is based on the principles of solidarity, efficiency in the right to choose when receiving medical services. At present, the role of the state in health care is of paramount importance despite trends for greater liberalisation of the health services market. The legal framework of health insurance in our domestic law is contained in art. 52 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet in this room. Excuse me, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u235	Here is the constitutional right of the citizens of health insurance, guaranteeing them access to medical care and free use of medical care. The insurance institution, in this case the National Health Insurance Fund, cannot purchase a certain type of services but must pay for them when certain insurance risks occur. I will also ask the question: what will be the consequences for a health-insured citizen if the Cashier cannot pay for his medical care if the amount of medical care purchased by him is exhausted? We will have an imbalance between the health insurance, as some of them will be able to pay the Cashier and others will not. Some will be violated by constitutional law guaranteeing access to medical care and free use of medical care. Not to mention that when the Health Insurance Fund's budget is exhausted, it does not relieve it of its responsibility to pay for the real work done by hospitals. In addition to everything listed so far, if this situation is adopted, it is not clear what will change in the negotiation or is rather very clear. I assume that it will come to negotiations with certain performers, which will be done on a basis, as is done in all public procurements, at the lowest price, and this will inevitably affect quality. My belief is that when medical institutions compete for the patient, it should be for a better quality of services, not for low prices, and contracts with the NHIF should follow the choice of patients for better quality. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, support our proposal to drop § 1! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u236	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? The People's Representative Hasan Ademov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u237	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We, together with colleagues Kardzhaliev and Chakarov, propose that this paragraph 1 be dismissed. What are our reasons for the word "payment" to be replaced by "buying"? What are our arguments against this text? Dear colleagues, with this text the National Health Insurance Fund is becoming an active market entity. There are two reasons why this text is proposed. First of all are the proposals that they have in the Law on Medical Institutions, which will be dealt with further. These proposals and this text enable the Health Insurance Fund to select medical establishments with which to conclude contracts. By what criteria it is not yet clear, because if a medical establishment exists, it means that the Minister of Health has issued a licence, this means that this medical establishment provides quality medical assistance. If that's not the case, the medical facility shouldn't have a license. This text gives the National Health Insurance Fund the right as the sole payer of services under the current legislation to select medical establishments with which to enter into a contract, i.e. the rest will remain without contracts with the National Health Insurance Fund. Next. The second reason why this text is being introduced is the caselaw, which is known to date. All medical establishments to which the work is not paid, note the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund have won the cases against the National Health Insurance Fund, because under the current legislation the National Health Insurance Fund must pay the work, work and check medical activities. These are the two arguments that we cannot agree with. Well, if we lean on the story in the words of Mr. Minister, who's not here... [[Heckling]] He's coming, okay. If we come to his reasoning that the NHIF should not conclude contracts with health institutions that do not provide quality assistance, then the natural question arises immediately: why did the same minister give permission to the medical institution to carry out this activity? If we want the National Health Insurance Fund to select medical institutions, let there be competition between the medical institutions themselves in providing assistance! Let there be competition for the funding bodies. Given that there is one funding body, giving such rights to the monopoly means that we risk at least two things: in the first place the National Health Insurance Fund under unwritten rules to conclude contracts with this or with that medical establishment, i.e. we allow corruption practice; in the next place: provided that the National Health Insurance Fund has the right to select the medical institutions, in any case on the basis of a financial resource deficit, the Casata will choose such services that are at low cost, although the medical institutions still do not set a price. With all these arguments, we ask you to reject this proposal because it facilitates the National Health Insurance Fund, but puts in an extremely difficult situation the medical institutions that will be liquidated with this text. If you agree to this, support the proposal of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u238	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u239	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! This is one of the main texts in this Law proposed by Minister Moskov. I think his presence in plenary is mandatory, not for anything else, but for him to be able to answer the questions I am going to ask him. I think it is not serious that the core of the health reform advertised by Moskov should be discussed and voted in plenary in the absence of the minister himself. So, I'm ready to wait for him... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u240	There he is. [[Noise and lines. Partial applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u241	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! We are discussing § 1 of the proposals and an enthusiastic bill which, in your opinion, will lay the basis for the presented, advertised, protected, explained health reform. I believe that the MPs and the Bulgarian doctors, as well as the patients, should be informed about the changes that are taking place and hear your explanation from the parliamentary platform on this important topic. First of all, I think that doctors, patients and MPs who will support this text should be aware that with the change in § 1, with the supposedly formal exchange of the demand for payment, with the purchase, the right of choice of Bulgarian patients to medical institutions, the choice of a medical team, in practice, is forfeited. The advertised right to choose a medical establishment in art. 4 of the Insurance Act turns into a simple plate, as the parking plates are forbidden!.................................................................................................. [[Noise and lines.]] Because at the moment when the administration led by you, Mr. Minister, will decide which hospital will purchase certain clinical pathways for a certain number of cases, it will practically deprive patients of the right to choose which hospital to be treated for a certain disease themselves. I'm setting a simple example. If any of the patients.. if we consider the MPs as ordinary patients, which we are, in fact, to become more understandable the example, prefer, say, a cardiological disease to treat them in the Military Medical Hospital, and you and your administration have decided to purchase these paths only from.. Pirogov, then in practice the patient will have to comply with your decision and your choice. So you decide instead of the patient where to treat hernia, where to have heart surgery or where to go to surgery from appendicitis. Which would have been understandable if you had bothered in this Law to specify clear criteria on what grounds you would have decided to purchase certain clinical pathways from a hospital at the expense of another. Because I think the honest, honest approach is to put everything on the table. When there will be hospitals that will be deprived of funding from the Health Insurance Fund because the Cashier will not purchase clinical pathways from them, the rules will be clear in advance. It is not such an important issue to possibly solve in regulations, firstly, because by looking at the courts' practice, your important administrative acts do not survive in court and, secondly, because this will open a door to any next minister who has another vision of what the criteria for buying a path from a hospital should be changed. There is also enough practice for the rapid replacement of health ministers. Where are the guarantees that your successor would eventually not turn the whole picture upside down by putting other criteria and other requirements into such a legislative act. I think that you owe a clear, understandable, reasoned and honest answer to Bulgarian patients and doctors because, I assure you, they have not yet thought through what you are offering them and what you intend to do to them that you will reverse the system in which instead the patient will decide the administration in which some hospitals will be harmed at the expense of others, without being clear the preliminary criteria. So we expect your answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u242	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! There is no way that I cannot fail to take any more into account under § 1 of the Health Insurance Act, at least as a member of the Health Committee. Firstly, I must tell you that, at a second vote in the Commission, this bill was considered in an extremely serious public interest and media interest. In fact, the entire debate will be recognised by all colleagues involved in the Commission, was absolutely open, absolutely transparent, for which I can admire the President of the Commission, and was extremely long, which suggests, and I can share it here, colleagues, before you, that there have been very serious debates on every paragraph of the bill. What was not shared because Mr. Ademov said many good things in his speech, but did not say. For Mrs. Manolova, I don't want to comment, because I was under the impression that she just doesn't know the matter, can't even see the matter, but to make it clear to her, I'm going to try to explain the part that she either doesn't know, or she doesn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u244	It in the form of a personal explanation will explain more. [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u245	In fact, colleagues, even in § 1, those who were in the Commission, know that there is yet a substantial change to the replacement of two terms of payment with a purchase. Why? Dear Mrs. Manolova, you're probably gonna want a personal explanation anyway, so I can explain it to you. In the years, honourable Members, it is a well-known fact that the funds in the Health Insurance Fund have increased several times. However, the quality of the provided health service has changed nothing. Moreover, the reactions of Bulgarian patients are not so positive. I get hundreds of letters, some of them I've even forwarded to the Minister, and they're not as impressive as a positive reaction. What, though, has happened over the years? By the way, it was not for a reason that this Bill was adopted as long as possible because certain political forces had the benefit of preserving this status quo as long as possible, this situation of draining the Cashier as long as possible. For years, the Cashier was forced to pay for activities and volumes of activities that did not actually happen at all. It is here that the thin logic and the change of the term "payments" with the purchase. When you're legally forced to pay, Mrs. Manolova, you don't have the last word, you don't have the right to claim, as they say, you just have to pay. And not only clinical pathways, you are obliged to pay different types of medicines at multiple levels than the ones on which they are sold on the market. I can share with you practices of purchasing medical supplies and items at a much higher price, as the surgical threads have been sold, for example, colleagues. One such practice of the latter was that they were offered for 5000 BGN, but were purchased for 60 thousand. lv. Is this supposed to go on, do you think? Is that why you don't like changing the term "payment" with the term "buying"? Because when you buy something, you have the right to say: "Yes, this meets this price, this meets the requirements, this activity is done and we will buy it." However, if he does not answer, you will say: "No, we will not pay for this. That's why some people liked this thing going on and this vicious practice of draining the Casket going on. However, we from the Patriotic Front will support the change because it is useful, for the benefit of Bulgarian healthcare, for the benefit of the Bulgarian patient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u246	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u247	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, we have also had this debate in the Health Commission..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I understand your thesis that when it is bought, there will be some quality criteria, but I return you a little further back into the health care system itself, to the very idea of the Health Insurance Act. It is said that the money is collected by the health insured persons, the Cashier enters into a contract. When the Cashier enters into a contract, that is where these quality criteria are bet. The criteria are bet even further back when health care heads with the Minister gives the license/allowance of activity. So these quality criteria are laid down there. As for the purchase, but this is a slightly longer topic in the line, there is no way to ask it, is it interesting how it will be purchased, with public procurement? How will we choose this purchase because you are talking about draining, but I just remind you that since there has been a cassata for 16 years, this year unprecedentedly another month of April has begun to talk about the budget update. This was never, provided that this year's budget was wonderful, was large enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u248	That's not true! Seventy million less.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u249	It was a lot bigger than last year, on the condition that it paid off last year. What happened? Since it's June and there's an overcost right now, another big overcost! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u250	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. Any other lines? Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, I understand your attachment to the term "buying" because it is an accounting term and you are strong in this problem. But there's something else. With this vote, you take responsibility, and it is an extreme responsibility. You take responsibility for the fact that the National Health Insurance Fund as the sole paying agent of medical services will select medical institutions. There's no harm in picking them out if there's more than one Case. If there is a diversification of funding sources, then let them choose, let there be competition between the funding bodies, let there be competition between the medical institutions to be better quality. The current situation is perfectly clear "the Minister of Health issues or should issue a permit/license to medical institutions that provide quality medical care. If they don't provide that kind of help, he can take away their license. He's got that right. So you take the responsibility for this, you give the National Health Insurance Fund right. Yes, it's true that we gave them the right, because the Cashier is one. We've given her the right to dispose of our money. But the Cashier will choose, albeit by criteria, the medical facilities. I understand, I repeat, to select medical facilities if there are several sources of funding. Given that there is a monopoly on the source of funding, what will it choose? I'll set conditions, God forbid, will he racketeer? Take responsibility for this here, from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u252	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Is there a third line? Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, what greater recognition than what you have just stated yourself? Were you not the same MPs as Mr. Raynov, Mr. Ademov and all the others you publicly stated in the Commission that the current model did not work? Or I'll have to take out your shorthand and read what you all said together! Wouldn't you be the same people who said in this Commission that this model was a failure? Only you're not saying things till the end again. Because we didn't just work to replace one word with another yet in § 1 of this Bill! We have worked hard to be able to monitor this quality, which you are talking about, to introduce control by 2 million. patients and we had to waste 2 hours of time to recall now parts of the Commission meeting because Dr. Raynov had not read what my colleague Semir Abu Melih and I had developed as control. Two hours?! [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Now, that was the truth. Remember, Mr. Ademov, before anything happens, and it happens properly, even in the field of health, there must be a financial brain. [[DSS and DSS lines]] , management brain to provide all this activity so that it can work and happen. Not just drain it! And to finish with my backdrop, I would still remind you that all that you said, Dr. Raynov, is still another confirmation of my words. Do I have to remind you that the bill for amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act was submitted in February? Today is June 4 months the status quo sells and passes the ball to hang out so that this situation can stand. Of course, when the old, failed formula works, the cassa will accumulate deficits. Whether there will be an overcost, we will see it not known, maybe not. But if we keep working this way, I'm sure there'll be an overcost, because it's embedded in the schematics we've been looking at. If I have to get a document out of the purse, I'll show you how the scheme worked, how certain hospitals have received a great budget and, notice, they have never been in debt.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u254	How will this text change?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u255	But their managers, you see, are wonderful managers, because when they give you 100 million. lv. budget, and you need $50 million in business, so you can't help being a great manager. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u256	How's that gonna work?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u257	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u258	Thank you. For a personal explanation, the People's Representative Maya Manolova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u259	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, I asked the Minister of Health about the criteria of purchase, but to my great surprise, instead of being answered by the Minister, you jumped to answer me. Did you start as a PR at the Health Ministry, or did you, as you modestly put it, be the minister's financial brain?! [[Laughter at BSP LB.]] Does the Minister have some new PR strategy to keep his mouth shut and smile? [[Extending laughter and lines from BSP LB and DPS.]] By the way, there was such a health minister who was just smiling, and we all know that her ministry didn't end well. However, since you yourself have declared yourself a financial brain, I would like to draw attention to your financial brain on this question. [[Extending laughter in DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u260	Mrs. Manolova, he wasn't calling himself a financial brain.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u261	Dear colleagues, all those who consider themselves financial brains, can you answer my question: what is it with public money purchase without the criteria?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u262	There is!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u263	Buying with public money without criteria for this purchase is corruption! These are prerequisites for corruption when someone will assess how they will purchase without writing the criteria in law when the administration will judge. Since the financial brain of the Patriotic Front focuses on the word "buying," I have not been involved in the debates in the Health Commission, but I cannot help but be impressed by this zealous protection of the text. Is this about some other purchase....buying support, voting certain texts against other virtues of power?! It's really suspicious how the Patriotic Front became the Health Ministry's financial brain on the subject of purchase. [[Single applause from BSP LB. Announcements by Hasan Ademov: "Bravo, Mother! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. The word asked for the Minister of Health Dr. Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u265	Please excuse me. I know it's the end of the session, but I really do have three sentences. From the point of view of the financial logic of a system, assuming that the most profitable, fastest-moving and most secure human capital in the legal sphere is gambling to open a casino, there is the most secure that your capital will return. Let me say the following statistics for last year. For last year in Bulgaria there are open more new hospitals than casinos, i.e. profitability, profit guarantee, return and business plan are provided through this system of insurance much more than it is in the casino! So much for economic logic. At the moment, this is the situation because Dr. Raynov said. I'm not going to insult Dr. Raynov and Dr. Ademov now, to explain to them, but I'm going to say a few basic things about people who aren't specialists. At the moment, the Minister is obliged to issue a permit, and the Cassata is legally obliged to sign a contract with the three hundredth, four hundredth, five hundredth hospital! If you take the amount of hospitals in all countries with our territory and our population and collect the number of hospitals, you will still not reach the number of hospitals in Bulgaria such is the system that is currently working! If someone claims that in Bulgaria it is okay to have 300, 400 or more hospitals that it is good to tolerate it and the cassata should not have a choice between them, there should not be a health card to determine them, to go out and say: "This is good for us. Let's say it to the Bulgarian patients: "We are behind this system of organization and payment in healthcare." A brief theoretical reference. The Bulgarian Medical Union protects the interests of the union, the state guarantees quality and accessibility through documents and through the law, and the National Health Insurance Fund is an institute that enters into a contract only on behalf of the patients, that is, the institute that protects the rights and on behalf of the patients concludes contracts and requires from the medical institutions and from the performers prices, volumes and so on, is the Casata! The fact that the Cashier has now become a function of the health care system, not a function of the health care provider's interest, is a problem that I hope we will change with this law. Thank you. I hope this discussion continues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u266	Thank you, dear Minister. It's 2:04. We'll continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u267	Do I reserve the right to a personal explanation for tomorrow?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-03.u268	You'll use it tomorrow. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
