ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members, today the agenda is formed according to the order of art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Point one: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION. Four bills. The first one at the time was Mr. Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs, 18 December 2014. The second one was Mr. Angel Naydenov and a group of MPs, 12 June 2015. The third one of Mr. Petar Slavov and a group of MPs, 17 June 2015. The fourth one of the Council of Ministers, 20 July 2015. We'll start with the reports. First, the leading Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. I don't see Mr. Atanasov. Who's gonna give us the report? Mr. Nunev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll bring you to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 454-01-66, submitted by Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs on 18 December 2014. At its meeting held on 18 March 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Classified Information Protection Act, No 454-01-66, submitted by Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs on 18 December 2014. Representatives attended the meeting: - from the Ministry of Defence: Nikolay Vassilev. Advisor to the Minister; - by the State Commission on Security of Information: Vasil Rizov Vice-President, and Anton Borisov Director of the Legal and International Legal Activity Directorate, and - from the State Agency "National Security": Nedyalko Nedyalkov Vice-President, and Tanya Karakash, Director of the Legal Directorate. The bill was presented by the National Representative Metodi Andreev, who pointed out that with the submitted Bill there is an attempt to transpose the political trend adopted in this National Assembly in the national security sector aimed at increasing the opportunities to do checks related to belonging to the former offices of the People's Republic of Bulgaria. The bill reaffirms our Euro-Atlantic integration and gives additional opportunities to meet the requirement for transparency and maximum awareness of society in Bulgaria. The existing Law regulates the verification of people who occupy public office or public activities, such as Prime Minister, MPs, ministers, but these are people and positions for which further access to classified information is obtained after taking office. The State Commission on Security of Information was responsible for its Vice-President Vasil Rizov. Their opinion is based on art. 1 of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, namely that the State Commission on Information Security is a body for the implementation of the policy on the Protection of Classified Information in the Republic of Bulgaria. From the State Agency "National Security." Nedyalko Nedyalkov pointed out that they have provided a written opinion, which overlaps with the opinion of the State Commission on Information Security. Also marked some additional notes. As regards belonging to the former security services, it is listed as a restrictive condition, from the point of view of the security and reliability of the person. The acceptance of this order, where the person is not reliable in terms of security, shall be refused. Mr. Nedyalkov added that it is also important to avoid subjectivity, and especially when it comes to judicial appeal, to have clear criteria to carry out. Nikolay Vassilev of the Ministry of Defence said that they support all efforts that increase transparency in society. They strongly support the Bill, which is timely and is not a policy issue, but national security and national security risks. People's representatives Ivanov, Krasimir Jankov, Krasimir Karakachanov, Lubomir Hristov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi took part in the discussion. Following the debates, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 10 votes in favour, 2 votes in favour and 1 vote in abstention, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 454-01-66, submitted by Metodi Andreev and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 18 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u3	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Mr. Atanasov, I expect you to present the other reports on the other bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u4	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 554-01-115, submitted by Angel Naydenov and a group of MPs on 12 June 2015. At its meeting held on 24 June 2015, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined the Draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 554-01-115, submitted by Angel Naydenov and a group of MPs on 12 June 2015. Representatives attended the meeting: - by the State Agency "National Security": Oleg Petkov "Vice-President," Tanya Karakash "Director of the Department of Law" and Violeta Krasteva "Director of the Directorate of "Classified Information" and - by the State Commission on Security of Information: Vasil Rizov The National Representative Angel Naydenov presented the Draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, stating the reasons why the amendments were proposed and the consultations and discussions on the scope and duration of the necessary changes. Vasil Rizov of the State Commission on Information Security expressed his opinion on the principle of support for the proposals, insofar as they relate to dropping some of the requirements to be met by persons applying for permission to access classified information or who already have such authorisations. Mr. Rizov stressed that the current version of the text of art. 40, para. 1, t. 5 really contradicts Article 5. 6, p. 2 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which was ratified by a law adopted by the National Assembly in 1992, and contradicts the presumption of innocence laid down in the Constitution and one of the main presumptions of the Penal Code. Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" supported the proposal to drop the item. Art. 5 of art. 40, para. 1 of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, expressing an opinion on the considerations of importers on non-discrimination and the possibility of refusing to issue or withdraw an authorisation for access to classified information and the possibility of negative consequences for the person concerned. During the debate on the bill the MPs Dimitar Lazarov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Atanas Atanasov took part. Dimitar Lazarov pointed out the importance of the problem and the need to really be solved not as Intuitu personae, but in a direction that does not allow the fact of the formation of pre-trial proceedings or the attraction as a defendant for a serious crime to be an absolute basis. It is more important to allow authorities to assess whether these facts relate to the reliability of the person. Dimitar Lazarov drew attention to the mandatory creation of a procedure in DXI, signed in the Law, which respects the rights of citizens without reaching the other extreme. Tsvetan Tsvetanov stressed the importance of the legislative initiative in this direction and, at the same time, avoiding changes in the laws on specific persons and cases. Atanas Atanasov commented on the amendments to the Law on the Protection of Classified Information submitted by Angel Naydenov, Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on 17 June 2015, as mutually complementary and offered to be supported. As a result of the debates held, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee unanimously supported the Draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 554-01-115, submitted by Angel Naydenov and a group of MPs on 12 June 2015, and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt it in the first vote. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 554-01-18, submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs on 17 June 2015. At its meeting held on 24 June 2015, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined the Draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 554-01-18, submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs on 17 June 2015. The meeting was attended by representatives of the State Agency of National Security and the State Commission on Information Security. The President of the Commission Atanas Atanasov presented the draft Law on Protection of Classified Information tabled on 17 June 2015 by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. Atanas Atanasov pointed out the proposed amendment of art. 56 of the current Law on the Protection of Classified Information relating to the modification of the conditions in the formation of pre-trial or judicial proceedings for a deliberate criminal offence of general nature against a person who is authorised to access classified information, and the primary responsibility to be granted to the Information Security Officer in the Organisational Unit for taking measures to limit access to classified information. Vasil Rizov of the State Commission on Information Security expressed his opinion on the principle support of the proposals, insofar as they relate to dropping some of the requirements to be met by persons applying for permission to access classified information or who already have such authorisations. Vasil Rizov stressed that the current version of the text of art. 40, para. 1, t. 5 really contradicts Article 5. 6, p. 2 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which was ratified by a Law adopted by the National Assembly in 1992 and contradicts the presumption of innocence laid down in the Constitution and one of the main presumptions of the Penal Code. Vasil Rizov stressed that until now in the texts of art. 56, para. 4 is provided for the possibility that the Head of the Organisational Unit, after being informed by the Information Security Officer, may restrict the person's access to classified information, using the expression............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" supported the proposal to drop art. 40, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, expressing an opinion on the considerations of importers on non-discrimination and the possibility of refusing to issue or withdraw an authorisation for access to classified information and the possibility of negative consequences for the person concerned. People's representatives Dimitar Lazarov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Atanas Atanasov took part in the debate. As a result of the debates held, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee unanimously supported a Draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Classified Information submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs on 17 June 2015, and proposed that the National Assembly adopt it in the first vote. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 502-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015. At its meeting on 23 September 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Draft Law amending the Classified Information Protection Act, No 502-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Interior: Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister; Georgi Krastev, Advisor to the Prime Minister and Secretary of the Security Council, and Boris Dimitrov, Chairman of the State Commission on Information Security The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Krasimir Tsipov, who pointed out that the bill tabled by the Council of Ministers to amend the Law on the Protection of Classified Information is in the context of submitted by a group of MPs and examined by the Commission two previous bills. The amendment to the current Law corresponds to the presumption of innocence established in art. 31, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. According to this article, the defendant is deemed innocent until the contrary has been established with an effective sentence. The presumption of innocence is explicitly established in art. 16 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The current version of the text of art. 40, para. 1, t. Article 5 is contrary to Article 5. 6, p. 2 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, ratified by a law adopted by the National Assembly. In accordance with art. 6 of the Convention, each person accused of committing a crime shall be considered innocent until proven guilty in accordance with the law. The formal application of the requirement against the person not to initiate pre-trial or judicial proceedings for a deliberate criminal offence of a general nature shall result in refusals to access classified information or withdrawal of permissions granted. The proposed Draft with transitional and final provisions shall specify explicitly the completion of the pending complaints proceedings against refusals to grant permissions for access to classified information or against withdrawals of permissions for access to classified information issued on the basis of art. 40, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, to be carried out in the new order, as well as the effective refusals and revocations for which the time limits under art. 57, para. Art. 6 and art. 59, para. 6 of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information has not expired, to cease their action. The Chairman of the State Commission on Security of Information Boris Dimitrov took part in the full support of what was said by Deputy Minister Tzipov and drew attention to the reason and the reason for the submission of this bill, namely the practice which is observed in the examination of complaints against alleged refusals and withdrawals on this basis art. 40, para. 1, t. 5, which is a violation of the principle of innocence and that it creates more obstacles to work than to solve a problem. In the discussion, Atanas Atanasov took part in the discussion, commenting on the submitted bill, which in its first part is identical to those submitted, discussed and adopted by the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, two draft laws by MPs. The specific and important thing in this bill is the two paragraphs proposed in the transitional and final provisions governing the pending proceedings. These proceedings will be decided after the adoption of the law and after the annulment of art. 40, para. 1, t. 5, such proceedings must be terminated. In addition, retroactively, all those cases where permissions for access to classified information have been refused or revoked on that basis. As a result of the debates held, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee unanimously supported a Draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 502-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015 and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt it in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u5	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. We will now hear the Commission's report on the control of the security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Mr. Lazarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u6	Mrs. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe to the Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act under a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 454-01-66, submitted by Metodi Borisov Andreev and a group of MPs on 18 December 2014. The Commission, at its regular meeting held on 2 April 2015, examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 454-01-66, submitted by Metodi Borisov Andreev and a group of MPs on 18 December 2014. The meeting was attended by Orhan Ismailov, Deputy Minister of Defence, Boris Dimitrov, Chairman of DCCI, Evtim Kostadinov, Chairman of the Commission for the Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to the State Security and Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army, Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the National Security Service, and Major General Dragomir Dimitrov. On behalf of the importers Mr. Andreev outlined the main points of the reasons for the bill, pointing out that the proposed amendments and additions will achieve greater civilian control over the state administration and access to classified information. He referred to art. 3, para. 1, t. 9 of the Ministry of Interior Act, which deals unconditional cooperation with the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army and the need to apply it to all security and public order services. He underlined that the texts of the draft law do not have a lustrational character, and that the decisions of the DCCI should be subject to judicial review. The Deputy Minister of Defence Orhan Ismailov expressed the principle support of the Ministry's bill, pointing out that there should be no interference by the SANS in the work of the services "Military information" and "Military police" and they should continue to issue permissions to their employees. He also made some editorial notes. The President of DXI Boris Dimitrov expressed support for the bill by proposing some editorial remarks. Mr. Evtim Kostadinov said that despite the expected large number of persons to be examined, the Commission has the necessary resources and will cope within the deadline set by the Law. The President of SANS Dimitar Georgiev also voiced support for the draft law by stating some considerations on the criteria for granting the relevant permits and appeal in court for refusal and withdrawal of access. The Director of the National Intelligence Service, Major General Dimitrov, held that the proposed changes set a precedent in another structure, with the Commission on the files concentrating all information on the staff of the intelligence services, which under the Law on the Protection of Classified Information is a state secret. Support the position that the security services staff should be checked by the services themselves, as is the Law on the Protection of Classified Information and should not be compared to a public person by an ordinary operative. Mr. Tsvetanov, Atanasov and Lazarov supported the bill by focusing on strengthening judicial control in the event of withdrawal of access or refusal, precision of the mechanism in a study to give access by the management of the services and precision of certain texts. Mr. Dubov and Merdjanov said their parliamentary group would not support the bill. After the 11 votes for the vote were closed, 3 votes against the vote, and 2 abstentions, the Commission approved the proposed Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. On the basis of the above, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 454-01-66, submitted by Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs on 18 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u7	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Following is the report of the Defence Committee. Mr. Yankov will report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee on a Draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 554-01-115, submitted by Angel Petrov Naydenov and a group of MPs on 12 July 2015. At a meeting held on 2 July 2015, the Defence Committee, including 2 on the agenda discussed the Draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 554-01-115, submitted by Angel Petrov Naydenov and a group of MPs on 12 July 2015. There were 19 MPs present. The meeting was also attended by Prime Minister of National Security Anu Angelov. The order of the President of the National Assembly was reduced to the MPs by the Chairman of the Defence Committee. The motives of the importers were presented by the MP Angel Naydenov. People's representatives Petar Slavov, Plamen Manushev, Vladimir Gajev and the adviser of Prime Minister Anyu Angelov took part in the discussion. A united thesis in the speeches was the understanding that the application of the requirement in art. 40, para. 1, t. 5 there shall be no pre-trial or judicial proceedings against a person for a deliberate criminal offence of a general nature as a condition for initial access to classified information there are certain grounds. However, where this requirement applies in the case of withdrawal of an access authorisation as regulated in art. 59, para. 1, t. 1 shall be contrary to a basic constitutional principle of presumption of innocence until the contrary is established. The Members of the National Assembly indicated that the remaining seven conditions of point 1. Art. 5 of art. 40, para. 1 implemented by the Law on the Protection of Classified Information provides sufficient assurance that the person to whom authorisation is granted is sufficiently reliable and will safeguard the information containing state and official secrecy. 19 MPs participated in the subsequent vote. As a result, the Defence Committee of the Forty-third National Assembly adopted the following opinion with 19 votes: Offers to the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 78, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to adopt, at first reading, a bill amending the Law on Protection of Classified Information, No 554-01-115, submitted by Angel Petrov Naydenov and a group of MPs on 12 July 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u9	And the other two reports, Mr. Manushev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 554-01-18, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov and a group of MPs on 17 July 2015. At a regular meeting held on 2 July 2015, the Defence Committee discussed on the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 554-01-18, submitted by MP Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on 17 July 2015. The meeting was attended by 19 MPs. The meeting was attended by Prime Minister Anyu Angelov's adviser. The bill was presented by the importer - the national representative Petar Vladislavov Slavov, who also outlined the reasons for his submission to the National Assembly. The bill proposes: 1. Change in art. 40, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. 5 to be removed from the text. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56 to create a new para. Five with a new text. 3. In the Transitional and Final Provisions, complete: The Member State which refused to issue or revoked the permission to access classified information within one month of the entry into force of the law shall revoke the decisions issued by him on the basis of art. 40, para. 1, t. Art. 5 or art. 59, para. 1, t. 1 in relation to art. 40, para. 1, t. 5 in relation to a pre-trial or judicial proceedings brought against the person concerned for a deliberate criminal offence of a general nature if, on that date, the person is not convicted of a deliberate criminal offence of a general nature. In its reasoning, the importer pointed out that the current text of the document in force. 5 of art. 40, para. 1 of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information is in violation of art. 31, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, contrary to art. 6, p. 2 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Art. 16 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. He argued that the formal application of the requirement against the person not to initiate pre-trial or judicial proceedings for a deliberate criminal offence of a general nature leads to refusals to access classified information or withdrawal of permissions granted. This attracts significant negative consequences for individuals. They shall not be entitled to apply to hold positions requiring access to classified information for a period of one year and, in the event of withdrawal of the authorisation, the person shall be restricted to apply for such posts for three years. People's representatives Petar Slavov, Plamen Manushev, Vladimir Gajev from the Defence Committee and Prime Minister Anu Angelov's adviser, who united around the following were involved in the discussion of the Bill. With the cancellation of t. Art. 5 of art. 40, para. 1 criteria for assessing the reliability of persons will not lead to a reduction in security standards in the area of personal security of classified information. The repeal of this point shall enable the rights of all persons who have been denied access to classified information, or who have already been granted, only because of the existence of pre-trial or judicial proceedings for a deliberate criminal offence of a general nature, to be restored. If the pre-trial or judicial proceedings against them have not ended with a conviction and after the revocation of the decision of the authority refusing the issue or withdrawing the permission to access classified information within the proposed time limits, they will be able to enjoy the status of persons for whom no refusal has been granted, respectively the withdrawal of access. The proposals made to create a new para. 5 in art. 56 of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information and the Additional Texts to the Transitional and Final Provisions are related to the proposal to drop the item. 5 in art. 40, para. 1 and necessary to synchronize the texts. The MPs appreciated the proposals in the Bill and said they were logical. After hearing the reasons and discussion, 19 MPs took part in the vote. By 19 votes for the defence committee adopted the following decision: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, at first reading, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 554-01-18, submitted by the National Representative Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on 17 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u11	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. Report on the Draft Law of the Council of Ministers? come in, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 502-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015. At a regular meeting held on 30 July 2015, the Defence Committee discussed a Draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 502-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015. 14 MPs attended the meeting. The bill is available in art. 40, para. 1 of the current Law on the Protection of Classified Information 5 to be repealed and in the transitional provisions the pending proceedings for complaints against refusals to issue or against withdrawals of permissions for access to classified information issued on the basis of this point under art. 40, para. 1 shall be terminated under the order of this Law, as well as the termination of the effective refusals to grant permissions or revocations of permissions to access classified information issued on the basis of art. 40, para. 1, t. 5 for which the time limits under art. 57, para. Art. 6 and art. 59, para. Six, one and three years, respectively, have not expired. The opinion on the Bill was presented by the Chairman of the Defence Committee. In its motives, the Council of Ministers states that the current text of art. 40, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information is in violation of art. 31, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, contrary to art. 6, p. 2 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Art. 16 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and leads to serious negative consequences for the persons on whom it is applied. Its cancellation does not change the concept in defence of classified information in the Republic of Bulgaria. The introduction of the Transitional provisions expressly establishes a legal possibility to complete the pending proceedings for complaints against refusals or revocations of authorisations for access to classified information to be carried out under the new order and the withdrawals already in force for which the time limits within the meaning of art. 57, para. Art. 6 and art. 59, para. 6 have not expired, to cease their action. In the discussion of the bill participated MPs Angel Naydenov, Yanko Yankov and Petar Slavov, who supported the bill and pointed out that with the annulment of the item. Art. 5 of art. 40, para. 1 and the transitional provisions introduced shall be restored to justice with regard to the application of the presumption of innocence until the prosecution has been proven in an unmistakable manner, while at the same time the criteria for assessing the reliability of persons will not lead to a reduction in security standards in the area of personal security of classified information. After the discussion, 14 MPs took part in a vote. By 14 votes for the defence committee adopted the following decision: Asks the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 502-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on July 20, 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u13	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. We proceed to the presentation of the bills by their importers. First is Mr. Metodi Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The law, which was introduced by a group of MPs from GERB and the Reformation bloc, has the task of continuing the policy, which the majority began at the beginning of this mandate - a policy of lightening the people working in the sector, as regards their belonging to the security services of the former State Security and the former intelligence and security services of the People's Republic of Bulgaria. The idea of this Bill is not to carry out lustration actions, because according to the Constitution of Bulgaria and a decision of the Constitutional Court in Bulgaria there can be no ban on taking up positions because a person belonged to the intelligence and security services in the People's Republic of Bulgaria, but to be subject to verification of the relevant authorities, the institutions concerned, which under the Law on the Protection of classified information assess the reliability in relation to the security of the information on the specific case, for the specific persons. There's a serious imbalance in the country right now. The higher public positions, public positions and those who hold senior government positions are subject to such an examination and it is made public under the order of the File Act, as I will briefly call it. We've all been subject to such an inspection. Very recently, findings have been made by the Commission on the files that during the term of office of this Commission 12 500 persons have been announced who fall within the category of collaborators or officers of the intelligence and security services in the People's Republic of Bulgaria who held or occupy senior state positions or public positions within the meaning of the File Act. This is the part of the persons being checked under this Law. At the moment, there are many institutions in the country where there are people working with classified information, creating classified information, protecting classified information, destroying classified information. But we don't have a look at what these people are, if they belong to the ex-services, if they don't belong to them. This does not mean that if they have such belongings, they are necessarily bad and necessarily do not protect the national interest. There are plenty of examples that prove otherwise. Therefore, the idea of the Law is to create order, to be able to check these individuals, that is, people who deal with classified information. In this sense, the Law provides for a procedure under which any person who needs to be checked under the Law on the Protection of Classified Information for a level of confidential, secret or top secret must be checked in advance. The information that will be obtained from this preliminary check whether it was a collaborator, agent or officer of the former intelligence and security services of the People's Republic of Bulgaria to be given to the authority that assessed its reliability in terms of security. It further examines whether the person in question can take up the position concerned, whether it has sufficient security, whether it can provide sufficient security on the classified information it will receive in carrying out its duties. Once again, there is no hint of lustration in this text. Another point is that between first and second reading we as MPs, if the Law is adopted by the National Assembly, we must develop criteria because these are the proposals of the individual services that have been watching this Law. We need to come up with clear and precise criteria. If a person found to have been a collaborator or an officer of the former services of the People's Republic of Bulgaria, what criteria should be assessed to be able to say that, despite such belonging, he could hold the state post or office in question for which such verification is required? This is one aspect of the Law. The other aspect of the Law is the issue of obtaining, refusing and withdrawing access to classified information. By the way, the Law that Peter Slavov imports has much to do with what we propose in this Law. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Orders the student initiative for legislative research working with the National Assembly to examine how this problem is settled with the possibility of the sanctions of the relevant authorities giving access to classified information being appealed. We're very sensitive about lustration. When we talk about lustration, usually debate in parliament gets pretty loud. The law on protecting classified information that currently exists is a very heavy lustration law. What happens if a person applies for a particular state post but is denied classified information? It cannot take up this state office. The person may first complain to the authority which has assessed that he does not have the data necessary to obtain access to classified information. The second appeal is before the Commission itself. If the DXI Commission refuses, it actually refuses, without explaining why it refused, this person cannot take the state office in question. I mean, he's lustrated. For some reason he is not being notified, he is forbidden to enter the labour force. This is the lustration character of the Law, which is currently operating. There are many such examples. The last example is with a worthy Bulgarian general who was thus forced to leave the army. We all know this case. This also concerns Mr. Peter Slavov's Law. This is settled in a number of countries. We did the study with the active cooperation of Mr. Atanasov from the Internal Security and Public Order Commission. There are quite clear examples there. Such possibilities to appeal decisions in the sense of refusing access to classified information or withdrawal are available in Romania, in the Czech Republic, in Lithuania and Latvia, in Germany. Only there's a commissioner general who can appeal. In some places, the appeal takes place in front of the relevant Attorney General. In other words, there are some technologies that have been developed in many countries in the European Union that allow such action. We have therefore put the opportunity here to be discussed by Parliament and to give the opportunity to people who have been denied access or have been denied access, to have the right to defend themselves, because it is practically lustration. He can no longer take up the position in question. In addition, we need to take into account the fact that in some countries, even the definition of certain information as classified has been given an opportunity to appeal. Some may consider that this is not classified information and the natural person may appeal to a court whether the information given is classified. We believe that all these problems between first and second reading with the active intervention of many MPs who have a bearing on the subject can find a good solution. I think it is right that the policy that we, as the ruling majority, started at the beginning of this mandate to look for a way to illuminate people's past, to make the services prefer such positions to take young people born after 16 July 1973 who are not generally checked for belonging to state security must continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u15	Mr. Andreev, please focus on finishing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u16	I'm done. All the scandals we have seen in the security system, with leaks of information, there has always been a participation of one or more individuals associated with the former services of the People's Republic of Bulgaria. It's time for this matter to be resolved legally and things to fall into place. I therefore call on all MPs who support the idea of enlightening the belongings of people handling classified information to be consecrated, to support this Law, and between first and second reading, if it is adopted, to make appropriate additions. [[Private applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u17	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Under the second bill, the motives will be presented by Mr. Angel Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before submitting to the substance proposals a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, I would like to make an agreement by bringing it before brackets regarding the presentation of the substance of the Bill. This is the agreement that out of any doubt the reason for making this proposal with my colleagues from the BSP Parliamentary Group was directly related to the circumstances of withdrawing the permission to access the classified information of the General. Shivikov. Of course, I would immediately like to add that this is not, in fact, a bill which is only and solely related to the individual, in this case, the gene. Shivikov. There has been one accumulation over the years since the adoption of the Classified Information Protection Act to this case, in which there are many cases of withdrawal or appropriate termination of the authorisation granted for access to classified information. Among these cases are diplomats, including by decrees issued by the President, other senior officials in the state administration, including within the National Revenue Agency, the Customs, structures related to the security sector and, of course, I must emphasise that there are not one and two cases in which soldiers with senior officers are directly affected. That is, we have a practice that can, however, serve as a basis for making the relevant conclusions on the operation of the various requirements that have been incorporated into the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. The fact that we tried to react quickly in time after pre-trial proceedings were initiated against Gen. Shivikov, which was the reason, according to art. 40, para. 1, t. 5, to withdraw the issued permission to access classified information, to impose its mark on the comparatively limited scope of the bill that we have proposed. I must admit that colleagues who have made proposals for amendment and supplement, by the Reformist Block of importers, the People's Representative Petar Slavov and a group of MPs, are considering another hypothesis and it is the way in which the action in already initiated proceedings can be terminated or, consequently, the judicial appeal against refusals given by the State Commission for the Protection of classified information, including, of course, these options are addressed within this much wider scope and in the Law of the Council of Ministers. However, the basis of all the bills, apart from the bill submitted by Mr. Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs, is the same and it is dropping from the requirements for granting permission to access classified information to the requirement included in this section. 5 against the person to whom it is issued or to whom an authorisation study is carried out shall not have a pre-trial or judicial procedure for a deliberate crime of a general nature. It is clear the logic of these requirements, which are included in art. 40, including, of course, the requirement under point 40. 5 and this is the logic of introducing more guarantees that the person who is being examined for authorisation is sufficiently reliable from the point of view of protecting the information. In fact, here we have overlap with two other requirements that are part of the texts of art. 40 and these are the security check requirements. The second requirement for reliability is in terms of keeping the secret. That is to say, without the requirements of this point. 5 we have sufficient guarantees that the person to whom the survey is being conducted and the person to whom the permission to access classified information would possibly be granted is sufficiently reliable to protect, through the position that the holder of the loan requiring access to classified information, the national security of the country and thus the claim of national interests. I am in a hurry to say that, in fact, these requirements and, in particular, the requirement of this. 5 has a connection with at least four options that deal with the Classified Information Protection Act, and these are the options for issuing, withdrawing, suspending or respectively refusing to issue a permission to access classified information. Each of these options, honourable Members, relates to the respective occupation and hence to the right to work of the person concerned. Of course, the application of the requirement under point 3. 5 The person should not have any pre-trial or judicial proceedings, therefore there are also negative manifestations and they were reflected to a significant extent in the reports of the specialized parliamentary committees. First of all, this is undoubtedly the contradiction with fundamental principles in law, which are also part of the Bulgarian Constitution, the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. Accordingly, I am in a hurry to say immediately that the reason for this is the second negative manifestation, for withdrawing, suspending or refusing, respectively, the authorisation to access classified information is the reason for the person to be denied the position concerned, and in cases where the position concerned is in security structures, i.e. where this is a condition without which work cannot be started, is in fact also a refusal of employment. Note that these texts give some experts reason to call this condition some kind of labour paralysis, although access to classified information may be limited in cases. In cases where this is a condition without which the post may not be taken, it is practically grounds for the person to be dismissed from work. The third negative manifestation of the action of this text gives reason for other experts to talk about the text as a tool for self-mutilation. They give reason to talk about a hidden form of cadre then, when against the person, even on an anonymous signal in some cases, pre-trial proceedings can be initiated. Ergo, this automatically becomes the basis for a new verification, respectively suspension or withdrawal of the access authorisation. The person shall be released in such cases. The fourth negative manifestation, honourable MPs, is injustice. In this case, it manifests itself in at least two directions. The first direction is that the refusal or withdrawal cannot be appealed in court. In other words, the person cannot obtain judicial protection in cases where he feels that his rights have been violated. Secondly, pay attention when refusing to grant an authorisation, including under this point. 5, the person shall not be entitled to apply for the post concerned for at least one year, and in the case of withdrawal of the security clearance for classified information, the person may not apply not earlier than three years. That is, we have here an accumulation of this injustice, which ultimately takes away the right to work of the respective Bulgarian citizens. These were the reasons why, honourable Members, we should make the proposal to drop the item. 5. I hope that, with the broad agreement that existed in the specialized committees, this will also be the attitude towards the bills, in particular, to our Draft and plenary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u19	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. Opinion of an importer on the third draft Law submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, to present your motives in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will try to fit in in much less time. Given that many things have already been said about these bills, including the one I am about to present, have already been said by my colleague Andreev and my colleague Naydenov, I will not repeat them, I will even try to summarize things to some extent in order to make it, I hope, crystal clear to the colleagues who have this matter a little bit more side-by-side. We're looking at four bills that can be divided into two groups. The first group is the main Draft Law, which was presented by colleague Andreev and which was submitted by MPs from GERB and the Reformist bloc, and which concerns two main problems. One is the verification of individuals who actually allow classified information or, as they talk about, who checks the examiners. That is to say, the security that those individuals who give permission to access classified information themselves do not have any dependencies and cannot be influenced. The second part of this Bill is the possibility of judicial review of the acts of the so-called DXI Commission. The interesting thing here, fellow Members, is that this Commission, as you know, is being appointed by the Council of Ministers. That is, we are giving an authority appointed by the executive to perform quasi-judicial functions. This is under current legislation. Or, to put it another way, we ask and, to a large extent, with this Bill, we are putting on debate whether this is right and must remain the case, or there must be further judicial control over the acts of this Commission, because, as we have all heard, they can be really very important and after such an act for a year or for three years, it cannot apply for access to classified information at all and, respectively, remain without the position it takes. This is partly affected by the Bill. It could be extended between the readings and the scope of this subsequent judicial review to be extended, as at least I wish. As regards the second group of bills, one of which I present now, they concern the long-standing issue of whether the very existence of pre-trial or judicial proceedings is sufficient to remove the access to classified information of the verified person. This topic has become particularly relevant in the case with General Shivikov since summer, as well as colleague Andreev mentioned, but this is a problem that has been sitting at the table for many years and, unfortunately, has been neglected perhaps before this case so to focus public attention on it. [[Noise.]] I assume that you have also been informed that the President has also referred to the Constitutional Court with regard to this provision, that is to say, arguments have also been developed for unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to be quiet in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are also arguments for the unconstitutionality of this provision, which we propose to drop. It is indeed a very interesting case, and clearly its importance is essential. I will use two words specifically in referring to the Constitutional Court, as many colleagues have asked me what we are doing in this hypothesis and can we even look at the Bill. My belief is that we can, because, as we all know, the action of a law continues and it acts until the time of its unconstitutionality. That is, the referral itself has no suspension effect, so it is okay for us to consider it and if we consider that this provision should be repealed, it should be repealed. Consequently, the actions which will logically follow are the Constitutional Court to terminate the proceedings thus initiated. There remains the question of our political decision: is it really sufficient only to establish pre-trial and judicial proceedings to justify the withdrawal of access to classified information? We from the Reformation Bloc, and I see that there is a similar bill submitted by the Council of Ministers, and so is the bill of colleague Naydenov and BSP left Bulgaria, which advocate the opposite opinion, namely that only this is not sufficient reason. Of course, the question arises in this hypothesis: if, subsequently, it turns out that a person has been properly charged with making a mistake by completely dropping that point? Here is one of the distinctions that you will see in the Bill that we propose against the others of the Council of Ministers and colleague Naydenov and a group of people presented. We have provided for a provision in which we say that the employee responsible for the security of information in the relevant structure, in this case, of the charge or pre-trial proceedings, should take the necessary action to limit the access and work of the person with such information. That is to say, the person in question is not automatically relieved of office, but it creates prerequisites for him not to be able to work with classified information in the volume in which he worked previously so as not to have, of course, a problem if it turns out that the accusations against him are indeed justified. So this may be one of the more significant differences that I think complement the other two bills that I quoted. Last but not least, of course, in Transitional and Final provisions, we have also considered the pending situations, that is, we have taken measures if we consider that this article, which we are commenting on, should be rejected. In that case, the genuinely welded proceedings must be settled in the appropriate manner, i.e. the persons who, on that basis, suffered certain negative legal consequences, respectively, should be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u23	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. An importer's opinion on the fourth draft Law on the Council of Ministers? I won't. Please, debate mode. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The submitted bills on their substance really concern a number of problems which are related to granting access to classified information. As a whole, the BSP Parliamentary Group will support the three bills of Mr. Naydenov, Mr. Slavov and the Council of Ministers, because they are essentially, motivation and goals they pursue are almost identical. We believe that such a change in legislation is extremely necessary. Here the question is, and we have discussed it at the Commission regarding the bill which Mr. Andreev and a group of MPs have tabled. I'm kind of surprised at bringing up such a topic, especially in today's days. I have a feeling some chapters still sound like the Aurora shootings and ring the Kremlin bells. I'm surprised why this bill is being imported, with a frank lustrational nature. Believe me, the employees who worked in the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian Army have long left their posts, mostly due to age restrictions. I don't see why we're opening this closet today, where skeletons from the past are rattling. What are we gonna look for and what are we gonna do? We will make it more difficult for these services to do their work. Keep in mind that nowadays our services are experiencing an extraordinary shortage of personnel who are experts in the subject matter that concerns our society now, namely the fight against terrorism and precisely the one that comes from Arab countries. Believe me, most of the specialists who work on this topic have worked precisely during this period of time when the submitted bill is trying to get them into check mode, whether they have the right to access classified information. The question here is unclear on what criteria the SANS will give its assessment of whether or not a certain person should be given access to classified information when it is provided for inspection of the service. It is good that they actually allow for judicial review of such acts, but it greatly embarrassed the question of why everyone should go through this inspection. At the risk of repeating myself, I would once again say that the employees who have worked in these services for a long time due to their age have left them and I see no point in passing such a lustration law now. It is unclear, and it will not become clear to any of the Bulgarian society why such a proposal is currently being made. I don't agree at all that this thing doesn't border on lustration. On the contrary, I believe that this is a pure lustration sample of this order and will make the work of all employees who have access to classified information extremely difficult. For this reason, the BSP group will not support this Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A line to Mr. Ivanov's statement? I can't see. For a statement there is the word of the people representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I will support all four bills, but I would like to draw attention to the bill submitted by colleague Metodi Andreev, Tsveta Karayancheva and Dimitar Glavchev by GERB with the support and signatures of Petar Slavov and mine. This is one of the key bills. A colleague from BSP sees lustration texts, which is a very incorrect look at events for the following reason. Lustration is the following: if something is discovered, an example of belonging to the State Security, this should be a ground for refusal. It's lustration. It's a ground for refusal. We don't say that. We say that it should be checked whether it belongs to the State Security, whether it has any involvement at all, and not that it is grounds for refusal. Do you understand? This difference should very well understand it and see that such a problem in this bill does not exist. If BSP says otherwise, if it says that those who check and allow classified information, for them themselves should not be subject to verification, for them we should not know whether they belonged to State Security or to some of the other services, if that is what you are saying, that your thesis is wrong. After all, it is very important who are those who provide access to classified information. They must be an example in every respect, and each check must apply to them. And again, colleagues, do not make this mistake. In this case, no one offers lustration. We do not offer grounds for refusal, but we say: for these individuals, any verification must be available, including whether they belonged to the services. Otherwise, when you say that Homeland Security is no longer... Please don't distract my colleague Metodi Andreyev! When you say that the State Security was no longer there, these people retired, left, no longer dealt with Bulgaria, no longer engaged in politics, excuse us, one such your thesis insults us! We know very well that State Security is here that it still occupies key places in the Bulgarian state, if you want, in the Bulgarian Parliament, I would say. So I don't accept these, and I can't agree with them. Otherwise, it is important to have the possibility of judicial review. If a person doesn't get access to classified information, there's nothing he can do. It doesn't have any protection tool. It is possible that the Commission made a mistake or misjudged the circumstances. We give him the opportunity of judicial protection to go to court and prove his right, which, if you ask me, is an additional freedom, additional protection. This Commission is appointed by the executive authority and anything is possible. He may at some point make a mistake. That's why it takes judicial protection to go to another institution to seek your rights and prove that you are right and that you have the right to access classified information. These are texts, colleagues who are democratic and correct. I call on the National Assembly and all parliamentary groups to stand behind them, but it is particularly important that the draft proposed by colleagues Metodi Andreyev, Dimitar Glauchev, Tsveta Karayancheva, Petar Slavov and my humble personality add to this list because this bill for the first time checks those individuals who give access to classified information, whether they themselves belonged to the State Security. This is a key issue that can no longer be hidden and swept under the table. So I call on you, Members, this is a good initiative, a democratic one, in the right direction, I call on all the parliamentary groups to support it! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u27	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. A line of speech? Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Dimitrov! Yeah, so wrapped up your proposal sounds great, only it puts really more questions than answers. The first question is in whose interest is this thing being done? Is it the Bulgarian society or some other society outside Bulgaria? Secondly, what is the point of burdening the entire administrative procedure with verification of belonging to the services? What's next for this thing? What's next? Who will receive the benefits or negatives from this check? These ambiguities are more reason for us to reject this proposal. You do realize that an aimless check to start checking everything from the beginning, including those who have never been checked and proving their belongings to the services without any clear purpose, what is this thing? What's he after? And good, by proving in some way to someone, don't let God stay there, in those who work with classified information, belonging to the services, what are we going to do with him? What's gonna happen to him? We're gonna stone him, what? Or are we gonna take him out to the National Assembly to criticize him and call him "Whoo"? Excuse me, but in these parliamentary groups, there are also those of those who are importers at the moment. What are we gonna do with them? You understand the bankruptcy of your proposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank you for the reply of colleague Ivanov. What is not clear is better discussed. He, by the way, got into a contradiction, which is important to clear it up. He says so: such people are no longer in key places in Bulgaria, especially to give access to classified information. And now in his line he says, if we find such faces, what will we do with them? So either one is true or the other. They're either gone or they're there. There's no way they're both gone and there's no way they're there when we find out what we're gonna do with them. The question is this. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u31	Please, no lines from the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u32	This is a very important matter. The second important question is: have these people fallen into severe addictions? By the way, ladies and gentlemen, look at the BSP's thesis. They say so: those who deal with access to classified information will not be checked for belonging to State Security, we leave them as they are. There won't be a check like that for them. As they were, they will not be checked. Why won't it be done because it hasn't been done before. And if it hasn't been done before, then we won't be doing it now. And the dependencies that can be produced on this path, ladies and gentlemen, are not pleasant and can also be dangerous to state security. That is why the portfolio Commission of my highly respected colleagues, security experts, supported this joint bill of ours, because they understand that Bulgaria should gradually be released from addictions without the need to be lustration, without lustration. We've already clarified the definition of lustration. Lustration is grounds for refusal. We don't say that here. We say, "We're just checking in on who you are." We're checking those who give access to classified information, what they are. The next step is to develop some criteria, which will be responsible work of the portfolio committee and checking for dependencies. But I know one thing: Bulgaria after this Bill will be better. Having information about who is who, what has been involved in, is very important and positive, including me, if you ask me, about the left spectrum of the room and for you can be, without this being a reason for limiting access or lustration. We just need to know who is who, especially those who are involved in giving access to classified information. These are topics there and it is information that directly concerns the security of the state. And if you ask me, given the global instability and the new challenges, this bill must be supported even more. For a reason, I have called on all the parliamentary groups: colleagues, you have no reason not to support it. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u33	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. For a statement is the word of the people's representative Atanas Atanasov, after him Chetin Kazak. Anybody else want to make a statement? Georgi Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! When examining the four drafts in the Commission on the three of them, there was absolute unanimity. All Members of the National Assembly agree that the presumption of innocence should be respected and that this text, which is in art. 40, para. 1, t. 5, is restrictive and in practice allows for abuse of power and this has happened in the very recent past. There are a number of complaints from people who were uncomfortable. This tool has been used to remove them from service, from work, and practically damaged their rights. And it's a good thing there's such a consensus. Now there is a dispute over the bill submitted by Mr. Metodi Andreev and fellow Members of the National Assembly, and it must be said by this tribune, to dispel these doubts, and these suggestions that are being made are not lustrational. Let us be clear about this, because "Lushtration" means when the fact is established that the person should have adverse consequences. There is no such thing in the proposed bill. At the same time, why should this check be done? Because the Law requires that all circumstances that could lead to addiction be clarified. Is there anyone here who has the courage to come out here and from this tribune to say that belonging to the services of the repressive apparatus of the communist regime is not the slightest doubt of dependence? I want to say something important here. Some might be surprised to hear it from my lips. I've worked with such officers. Some of these people are patriots and decent people, and I would sign with two hands to grant them access. However, there are others because of certain circumstances, especially because of the class-party approach in their selection and assignment, which are really dependent and manifesting this dependence on their work. These circumstances must be clarified in order for each particular case to be assessed separately. Otherwise, this circumstance is ignored at all. With regard to the suggestion that, you see, these people are already out of public life, that, honourable Members, is not true, and I will tell you why. I don't want to comment on the services. There are certain narrow circle officers in intelligence services who know certain languages that are necessary and still serve. Internal Affairs doesn't have any. There is, however, an institute introduced by this Law on the Protection of Classified Information, the so-called SCIs, the Information Security Officers. If statistics are made, I am telling you that 90% of the employees in the security of information in all institutions in Bulgaria are former employees of State Security. Ninety percent! And no one's ever checked these faces because of their belongings, whether they're dependent or not. This must be checked and again I say, depending on certain circumstances, whether or not this employee may or may not have access to classified information. Otherwise, we close our eyes. Given that there is a legal attitude in certain bodies dealing with the study because of collegiality, family relations and so on, these circumstances are ignored. And we are obliged to take all legal measures and oblige the institutions that carry out these checks to clarify these circumstances in detail. I don't want to bother my colleagues on the left side here, but, sorry, people who graduated from KGB schools and at all the special services of the Soviet Union at that time are employees of information security in important ministries and departments, and this circumstance does not worry us, and then we wonder how the Russians know what's going on in our ministries. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u35	Thank you, General. Atanasov. Replies to Mr. Atanasov's statement? Here you go. There's a word for a line Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u36	Let me get the microphones up a little bit. [[Radio to the left.]] Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Atanasov, just one such question to ask you when a person served in the prosecutor's office at the time and was an investigator, was this part of the system of the so-called National Security? Such people who were in that repressive apparatus, not only belonging to the services of the National Security (National Security) because security is a separate part of the system then to the National Security (National Security), should they also be subject to this type of control? The second question that I want to ask you... doesn't it seem a little strange to you at the 26th year of the transition, which some say we have passed and others say that we are stuck somewhere in the middle, to accept texts of lustration? That's really a little weird. What I want to tell you. When people worked and defended their country in a kind that it was then, because it was a state and there was statehood, unlike today, do not put under one denominator those who served and carried out the tasks of protecting the homeland, with those who wrote documents. Because all that you're talking about right now is trying to cover up and under the denominator of everyone who's worked, to hide those who've written the snitches and those who've written the sentences.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u38	My line is in the following sense, when we talk about national security, we should really only bear in mind the services of the former communist state. In fact, the justice system is part of national security. For example, in Germany, for information from the MPs, back when the state was united, Helmut Cole banned prosecutors and judges from the eastern part of Germany from being prosecutors and judges in a united Germany. That's why their justice system is what it is, and ours is what we have right now. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u39	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Third line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Atanasov, come in. [[Replications between the MPs Yanaki Stoilov and Metodi Andreev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought the generally well-meaning tone that goes in this discussion would be to the end, but, as always, one can be surprised. [[BSP LB.]] I'm taking the microphones down and I'm not worried about my height. Several times here on the left they deal with how tall I am, I prefer to be short, but not low. [[Applause from RB.]] Look, I stressed, and I'm wondering why you can't hear this thing? I have served with my subordinate officers who were appointed before 1989, and if today I have to grant them admission, I will still grant them admission. Because I've established they're patriots, decent people, they've worked and they want to work for the state. Only one hand's fingers aren't the same, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress and again tell you that the problem is that this circumstance is not being clarified. That is, the fact that one person was an employee of those services is not verified at all. That's the big problem. Therefore, by this Law we want to oblige institutions to carry out this verification and to seek there is or no dependence. If they don't have an addiction, they get clearance. When there's an addiction, it's clear what it's about. Otherwise, I don't have any worries about it. Before 1989, I was a junior prosecutor. So what? Give me a fact that I violated some human rights. Here perhaps there are some of my colleagues from the DPS who have information about my position in 1989 to the so-called "excursion" about this outrage that your party has committed to this ethnicity and that is why, after years of wondering how to reunite. But I don't want to go back and deal with these circumstances. That's why I'm saying that every single person has his past and it needs to be checked out. That's what this is about. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u41	To speak, Mr. Chetin Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u42	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Here the question has been raised repeatedly by the importer and by the non-negotiable that this is not a lustration law. Maybe it's not exactly lustrational, but I'd classify it as prelustrational. Why? Because it creates a special regime for a particular category of people. You rightly pointed out that there is lustration when, on the basis of certain criteria, a certain category of people are denied the right to take certain positions in the administration. Under this criterion, indeed, this Law is not lustrational, since there is no explicit prohibition after these persons are verified and belong to the former services of the totalitarian state, automatically denying them the right to continue to hold these posts. However, all prerequisites are created for this to be done in reality. Why? Because we subtract this category of persons by the general category of all persons checked for access to classified information that is not few, and we say that for those persons there will be a special verification regime. Then, if a membership is established, they will be provided for an even more detailed and additional inspection by the State Agency, which then has to decide whether or not there is or is no dependence, whether there is, or there is no grounds for refusal. The main motive for this special regime is the possibility of the existence of any dependence that would prevent the person from working with classified information. My fellow Members, then I ask the following question: if indeed the risk of dependence in the exercise of authority or powers relating to the taking of positions responsible in the state is automatic higher when it is found belonging to the former State Security services, then why not introduce this more comprehensive regime for all who are required and checked for access to classified information? Why is it that only for this category of persons we create such a special, more restrictive regime and prerequisites, after all, when such belonging is established, they fall under special doubt and require a thorough examination, analysis and assessment by a higher authority called the SANS? If the addiction is overrated for anyone who's been associated with the ex-services, then let's enter for everyone equally. Otherwise, conditions are indeed created, first, for disadvantaged treatment, second, for subsequent lustration. Once it is established, we create a new, more detailed check and so on. In general, the appeal to the SANS, which is contained between the lines in this Law, is: If you take such information, we want the answer to be not. This is contained between the lines of this Law. Honourable Members, these questions must be answered: does this Law create unjustified unfair treatment in relation to a certain category of persons compared to the entire category of persons being checked for access to classified information? And why, if the answer Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u43	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Atanasov. Second line, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Kazak, I strongly oppose the suggestion that this Law is lustrational. Don't say such things, that's not true! I mean, two facts. You don't have to know in detail the whole mechanism, but look, first of all, the list of circumstances checked for every single person applying for access. Their mother's milk is being checked, okay?! Mother, father, where he went to school, where he lived and so on. The fact that he worked at the Ministry of Interior because they didn't write that they worked at DHS, and at the Ministry of Interior, it's not checked! And there's the most serious danger of an addiction in the past. All addictions in the past must be checked! Do you understand that this Law has been so lightly revised with scissors that this circumstance is not checked out. Secondly, look at the other list on the so-called...................................................................................................... Members of parliament, ministers, deputy ministers, many categories of all who are elected, are announced where who has been...............................................................................................................! For all these people, it is checked and announced, and those who study for access to classified information, we do not check them, because the information security officer is the person in any organizational unit that can say: It is the information security officer who makes this conclusion, and we do not check it for such dependence! Do you understand the inequality we're talking about here?! This is extremely important! I'm surprised that you object to these circumstances from among the DPS! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u45	Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u46	Mr. Kazak, I'm going to use a cult replica of a cult professor: I look and I don't believe my ears! Mr. Kazak, you can't say that as a representative of the most pro-Pro-European and pro-European party! [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] You can't predict what we want to do, let's do that it's almost lustration. I'll repeat: no lustration! There's just more attention because these people aren't like other people. They have things we don't know about: we don't know their relationships, their addictions. Imagine the following case - I will give you an example of industrial security. I don't know if you know that in Bulgaria, in order to participate in a competition for the national security system, you must have access to industrial security? Did you know that there are extremely serious participations of people who are former employees of these services under the Kintex. You are aware that their capabilities, if they are not accounted for and disclosed at the time of the competition, may be that tomorrow our weapons have gone somewhere not to go?! This is directly about our national security! These people really need to be checked out more carefully. However, this does not mean that a priori should be lustrated. It doesn't! That's what I'd like to stress.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u47	Third line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u48	Madam President, please extend the time of our group before I begin. Dear Mr. Kazak, I'm glad you've read the Bill carefully, but something seems to have escaped you. I'll try to pay attention to you. I would remind you that together we have changed the changes to the Penal Code with which we have accepted that there is no statute of limitations for the crimes of communism. This is somewhat a continuation of these common actions. I appeal to your group: consider supporting the Bill because, as has been heard many times here, it is not about simple lustration and it is not about lustration at all, but about something else: to check when there was empathy to State Security, what is the person's rule. Many people go out and say, "I served the state, I was a patriot. That was the system. And then what does it turn out to be? In the relevant file, they polish files against his colleagues from work and so on. I'm not gonna enumerate. Turns out the face was just a snitch. This is what we want to clarify in this order. The verification will be not a simple check, as the so-called........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ And this body, and not the Bureau of Records, will now be able to actually see what this person was doing, whether he wrote, whether it served the state, if it created any dependencies, if there is any evidence of addiction. Then what on the left you often say is that everyone should not be placed under one denominator will be able to happen. You'll be able to see who did what in those years, who served the state and who was a snitch. That's the main thing about the Bill. Think about it and support it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u49	It's a hole, Mr. Kazak. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. Mr. Mikov, Mr. Enchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u50	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I don't know where Mr. Andreev and the other colleagues from the Reformation bloc came to the conclusion that I have justified a statement against the Law? I just asked certain questions. I'm glad you used the replica procedure to give answers to these questions or to try to give answers. I just asked questions that concern this: why is this done for a category when we say that belonging is a prerequisite for addictions and we exclude other categories? I wanted to have an answer to that question.... why is this distinction being made? As you know, we in the DPS Parliamentary Group are authors of the File Act. We are the last to oppose revealing the whole truth about totalitarian regime and dependence on totalitarian regime. However, we want this to be done in principle, not selective, first. Secondly, we want, when such bills are made, to be justified, to have a clear justification as to why certain categories of persons are distinguished from others, so that there is no doubt that this is done in a momentary, conjunctual way in order to satisfy certain interests or ambitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u51	To speak, Mr. Bojinov. After him, Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u52	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The legislative initiative in three of the laws that we are dealing with starts from a specific case and seeks to settle public relations based on these prerequisites. Therefore, our parliamentary group will support these bills and will not support the draft of my colleague Andreev. I am impressed, however, that when examining the Law, we returned to the old subject, considered one-sided and trendy, about the dependencies of the old security services of the state from 25 years ago. I purposely do not say State Security, because I distinguish elementary domestic snitches from those decent people who served their homeland. I am impressed that when we return with full force to the debate who served and whomever served, we make a very significant mistake. I suggest that addictions should be spoken without prejudice, because when they are absolutely addicted to the political leadership of the state 25 years ago, new fears for the future of the country are ignored, dependences on corporations, foreign state interests, money of unclear origin, manifesting themselves in laws, judicial and management decisions and in many other negative, rotting people manifestations. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to addictions, we must be free of any prejudice. I ask: those state security collaborators, I do not say the State Security Officers who have passed, and I do not say that they were hidden as collaborators and employees of the new services, which category are they? Will they be crucified and misled under this denominator? They are of what alleged dependence from 25 years ago or from those who have committed them, do not say that they are employed to continue serving the state? Is it possible for all of us and for all of those who have served for the security of the state to say anything?! Therefore, political speaking is not only unlawful but also offensive to the people who have sacrificed their lives for the security of the country, but does not provide any guarantees for the engagement of decent people to serve the security of the Bulgarian state in the future. Those who deal with access to the most secret documents and the most secret government secrets must not only look at who did what 25 years ago, which I do not exclude, but must watch who receives money and for what from certain foundations, how it justifies them, whom it serves and how it harms the country. Such an approach, such legislation and such political support for the activities of security authorities and access to information is different and true, different from what we do here, throwing some unconstant arguments at each other. My conclusion is this: for addictions, ladies and gentlemen, without prejudice, because they often serve scoundrels! [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u53	- What's the line? Mr. Merdjanov, first line. Second Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Bozhinov, is it not clear to you that the representatives of the Reforming Block of Kolchem have been passing a month - two, constantly waving the ghost of State Security. Do the State Security officials prevent them from implementing the necessary reforms in the sector of the Ministry of Defence in the Ministry of Economy?! Is that where the dog was buried? Is state security the problem of having success in these sectoral policies, or the incompetence of their ministers?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u55	Second line, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u56	You're right, Mr. Bojinov. It is very important that these particular dependencies are monitored. But to your great regret, these particular dependencies of unclear origin, corporate interests, dependence on foreign countries, are associated invariably with the people who 25 years ago, as you say, were part of the security system of the Warsaw Treaty, of the Soviet Union. In addition, it is very dishonest to suggest that they all worked for the state. Yes, there were people who worked for the state, with this consciousness they worked for. However, you should know that institutionally the entire security system of the People's Republic of Bulgaria was subordinate to the former Soviet Union. That's why not one came out, not two, but a lot of documents. It is not a lie that there was a cabinet of the Soviet commissioner next to the head of each office. Stop waving that mantra and insinuate untruths! These dependencies are related to the former people who created this, how to say, conditional democracy in which we live. This is not what we want it to be! I think it is high time that we knew who to check more than others.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u57	Third line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u58	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bojinov! I ask you very much when you talk about addictions, however, to specify the subjects and subjects of these addictions. If we are currently talking about a subject of dependence in terms of whether anyone served anyone and whether the services were subordinate to an entity, including the Soviet Union, to remind the MPs that the Soviet Union has been gone for a long time. What is said today is Russia, even as a political order, is very pò right and capitalist than are the most capitalist countries. So when you talk about addictions, please very much remind this thing, otherwise people remain convinced that some of our colleagues here have frozen in history, at the time when the Soviet Union was still there, and have forgotten that it is long gone. Once again tell them this about prejudice, I ask you very much that: if you want the truth to prevail, prejudice must die. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u59	A hole, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u60	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues who have replicated me! Mr. Merdjanov, are you listening? You asked me if I understood the new addictions? I understand, of course, but when they talk about earlier, dependence is on one place, now addictions are pluralistic from different party interests, from foreign countries, from corporations, from GMOs creators, from shale technology creators. You see, the pressure is different. Therefore, you are right to confirm what I said without warning and a specific study of these addictions. Mr. Andreev, about the new addictions. Have millions of levs been poured out to buy votes? They spilled. Are the taxes paid for them? They're not. Are those investigating the origin of the money and the crime of buying votes in order not to reveal this crime dependent on those buying the votes? Don't you care about this addiction? It distorts democracy, it destroys hopes of democratic conquests. Doesn't that addiction bother you? And, Mr. Ermenkov, what Soviet Union? What am I supposed to tell them he's gone? That if they don't know he's gone, do I have to explain to them from this tribune?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u61	Mr. Velizar Enchev to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u62	I didn't mean to make a statement, but Mr. Plamen Tachev asked me to do it, or rather provoked me to be punctual. Here, in this room, a hypocritical circus is being played. There is talk of dependencies of the former secret services of State Security, the Intelligence Department of the Ministry of Defence and so on. The Bulgarian Socialist Party also participated, of course, in this circus, as it is the author of the File Act, which did not distinguish between the intelligence servicers and the political informants, and specifically the informers of the political police. Here is your historical sin and it is time to acknowledge it and ask for a correction of this Law. My speech is about something else. You leave intelligence officers, counterintelligence, military intelligence, civilian intelligence on the list. Why, though, honourable Members, are you avoiding the most important question: who was in charge of these secret services? The Bulgarian Communist Party. Why don't you put all the members of the Bulgarian Communist Party or at least the members of the party bureaus on this list of screened persons? Why don't you put the party secretaries on that list? Behind my back is a person who has been party secretary of the Municipal Council in Pleven, the esteemed Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva, but she has no sense of historical guilt because she is not on this list, and I should have because I have served the Bulgarian state in Yugoslavia during the war. You who listened every night to the world and in our country from 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 reports from the battlefields in Yugoslavia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Sarajevo, where I risked my life to pass on these correspondences [[Elevator bell dings]] But not as an intelligence officer, but as a correspondent of the Bulgarian National Television, I stress this. Should I feel guilty, or Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva, who, as party secretary of the Municipal People's Council in Pleven before 10 November 1989, was my principal party line? The Central Committee of the Bulgarian Communist Party confirmed these official characteristics. Are we who served the Bulgarian state in Bulgaria and outside Bulgaria, whether the state is good or bad, not arguing? In hundreds of years, no one will look at these things, but will see whether this country was good or bad, whether it served the people well. That's another topic. Should we be guilty, or those who gave these orders, the party committee, party secretaries on the ground, secretaries and members of party offices, as well as Komsomol secretaries and members of Komsomol committees? I have a specific proposal to include a specific sentence in this Law and of the Council of Ministers, and especially Mr. Metodi Andreev's proposal: the members of party committees and the secretaries of primary party organizations. Come on, let's save the members of the Bulgarian Communist Party because there are hundreds of thousands among them, if not 90% honest and honest people who built this Bulgaria for these 45 years, thanks to which Bulgaria, 45 years built by the members of the Bulgarian Communist Party, you to the right, and you to the left, do not miss you, privatize, concession, plunder. You who made the new millionaires and the new caste from having and separating the people from having and without. So let's save the members of the Bulgarian Communist Party, but the members of party committees, the secretaries of primary party organizations. And most importantly, so I don't forget, since I have very little time left, where is the justice system? Junior prosecutors, no matter junior or senior, judges, senior police chiefs before 1989, why are you saving them? What are they more innocent of if we assume the state was criminal? And she wasn't criminal. 25th place in the world in economic development. But that's another topic, I know what you're going to say. I suggest on this list to be recorded, I repeat once again, with the correction I have just made: the members of the party committees of the Bulgarian Communist Party, the Komsomol Secretaries, the secretaries of primary party organizations, judges and prosecutors before 10 November 1989, as well as the police chiefs of the regional management of the Ministry of Interior. If you don't do this, I will calmly be able to talk about double standards and call now the employees of the National Intelligence Service, counterintelligence and so on: be careful what you do and what you do! Tomorrow you will be placed on the stand by everyone here on the left, on the middle and on the right, on the same unfair scheme that leaves one behind, accuses another, amnests the third. I hope for a line from Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva and Mr. Atanas Atanasov. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u63	Mr. Bojinov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Enchev, first of all, I object to your approach to this Law, and here, in front of the audience, you are proposing to expand. So you're going to destroy the ruling majority and coalition. You're wrong. Secondly, I've been a party secretary and, by your logic, I take responsibility for being and being the principal of such worthy agents or I don't know what you've been like personally. And third, there's something to be ashamed to admit, but it's wrong to keep quiet. Yes, and you have some reason when you're pointing at us there. Our former party buddies, because of emotions or some addictions, initiated this quarrel with people who served the state, I do not say State Security. But to our delight, they initiated other parties. Rumen Petkov is now the leader of the ABB, Tatiana Doncheva, the mother of the law, is in Vek 21. And our party is lightly released from these types of people, Mr. Enchev. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u65	Is there a second line? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u66	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like to say to the speaker that we are all already in the century 21, not just Tatiana Doncheva. [[Laughs]] I understand Mr. Enchev's pathetics, he's always looking for an opportunity to get into the lens. All these circumstances, which he is referring to, are set out in the Law, that they must be checked. If someone has worked as Komsomol's secretary, this should be written down on the list that they have to fill out, from which year to which year he was at this job. So these things are written. Look, we're an extremely democratic country. The highest authority of government is parliament. There are ex-demors here, ex-party secretaries. What do you want? You're here in the National Assembly. Otherwise, Mr. Enchev, I'll afford this thing, although you shouldn't do that, stop bragging, because I did an explicit check. You don't have any recruits. What kind of officer were you when you didn't have a recruit?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u67	Third line, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u68	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Enchev, I am listening to you and I am asking myself the question: Did you know that in less than a month we will meet 2016? [[laughs, laughs.]] Because the way you speak brings us back to a period more than 20 years ago, where there were national security services. Nationals! Because you are trying to blame everyone, including us, I will remind you if you have failed to notice that the Bulgarian Socialist Party is recognized and is a member of the Socialist International; the Bulgarian Socialist Party is a member of the Party of European Socialists and has broadcast the President of the Party of European Socialists is currently one of the ranks of the Bulgarian Socialist Party! I myself have not been a member of the Bulgarian Communist Party, but I have accepted to be active in what BSP defends! The change that happened in those 25 years, you missed it. Each of us chooses whether to live with the past or to look into the future! I believe that the Bulgarian people, people will prefer the one who looks into the future and offers them concrete solutions for a better life! You obviously want to remain in the past, and what you are challenging as a debate is clear evidence of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u69	A hole, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u70	The historical sin of the left has names, I like to speak with names "Roumen Petkov and Tatiana Doncheva." These are the authors of this Law, which does not distinguish between intelligence officers, counterintelligence, even from the counterterrorism department in State Security Sixth, which had an extremely important role in neighbouring countries. Tatiana Doncheva and Rumen Petkov I am making a correction. But you can correct this mistake, and you know how, by supporting my proposal to close the Commission on the files, or, more precisely, to move it to the services, which will save a lot of money. - Gen. Atanasov will not answer. I have answered in my book. I was in the intelligence department. Atanasov, all active events are absent. Downloaded Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u71	You don't, you don't! I've checked!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u72	You didn't check them out of the file. They've been pulled out and they haven't been handed over to the Bureau of Records! I won't go into details anymore. I know what I've done and I'm showing it! And what have you done as a junior prosecutor you still have to prove? And now the most important of this Law, as strange as it may sound, suffered the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and its leader Ahmed Dogan, who was absolutely unjust by Rumen Petkov and Tatiana Doncheva for having worked for the Bulgarian state! And thousands of worthy representatives of the Turkish ethnicity in Bulgaria, who have defended the interests of their country, good or bad, do not argue, there must have been many bad sides. And I fully understand the colleagues of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms who supported this repressive Law, proposed by the left side of the Chamber, because they were deeply angry, offended, bitter, not to say bitter, and with full right! How will you find today from minorities in Bulgaria to cooperate on a criminal line?! How will you find when you will be declared snitch?! How will you find minority people to work on other countries to which they belong when you have already declared them traitors, was that so, or as snitches?! That is why I again propose that in my duplicate I do not know if I am no longer running out of time to add: members of party committees, secretaries of party committees, Komsomol secretaries, representatives of the judiciary, junior and senior prosecutors, judges and senior police officers. If you don't support him, sir. Atanasov, you have a guilty conscience! And she's really guilty.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u73	For a personal explanation, the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva has the floor. Gentlemen, fellow Members, please take your seats in the right and left spaces. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u74	Dear Mr. Enchev, you are clearly on the principle that several years by saying untruths as the host of a TV show, they will turn the facts and become truths. Here, in this hall there are MPs from Pleven who know my biography much better than you and forums know my biography. There's no order to be ashamed of! I declare it categorically, I do it from this tribune, because any subsequent shift on this occasion will be protected in the appropriate order in our country! Until 1989, I worked at the City People's Council. [[Reply.]] You do not know the structures of the local authorities. You're talking about the Municipal People's Council and so on. That's what I'm putting in the column of your intelligence and competence. I declare strongly, Mr. Enchev: until 1989 I was not a party secretary as a member of the Bulgarian Communist Party, as I was a member! From now on, if you do not provide me with evidence and facts, every Bulgarian citizen has one constitutional way to protect his rights and I guarantee you that I will! [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. For speech there is the word of the people representative Julian Angelov. [[(Radio, noise.) A line from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov.)]] Please be quiet in the hall. [[The Presidents shall change the sitting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I was born in 1975, so I guess I didn't cooperate with the ex-services, but I still deal with these bills because of the following facts. For 25 years the Bulgarian National Assembly and Bulgarian politicians are the most hated thing in our country. They are the most hated thing because we are constantly importing bills that separate not only the National Assembly and divide the Bulgarian people. Twenty-five years we've been making people split into russophiles, russophobes, Americanophiles and all that. Twenty-five years we've been ruining our country instead of looking for unity between all of us, what can bring us together, and solve people's problems to live better. We are constantly dealing with bills that will in no way help the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian state. We must at least because of Bulgaria's millennium history to find the right path and unite the Bulgarian people, make the Bulgarian state richer, stronger, more secure and the most important factor in Southeast Europe. How long are we gonna keep this up? How long are we gonna keep looking under the ox? How long are we going to ruin everything that was created by our grandfathers? Let the National Assembly finally set an example in Bulgarian politics and begin to debate topics with which people will see that we are concerned about their fate, about our country, about our national interests! Let's find patriotism as a salvation for getting out of this 25-year continuous crisis in Bulgaria! I have been a MP for over a year and I see that among all political parties in the Bulgarian Parliament most of the MPs are patriots and know what needs to be done for Bulgaria. Let us stop political petty debates, let us stop denigrating one or another people, whether good or bad in the past! That's not gonna contribute anything. I'm not saying we shouldn't remember our story, on the contrary, history should be remembered! But we in the 21st century are obliged to disappearing Bulgaria, given that Bulgaria is brought to no longer a factor on the Balkan Peninsula and Southeastern Europe, we are obliged to give a new beginning to Bulgarian politics and the Bulgarian state so that the Bulgarians can really live better. About the Bureau of Records. Let this Commission finally be shut down and go to the State Archives. Everyone there to check, see who's done what and who's done what they're interested in. Let the funds of this Commission go to the State Archive, in which the workers there are miserable, receive salaries of 400 BGN, have no service cars as in the Commission on Files, have no building fund in which to protect the Bulgarian archive for generations. That is why I am calling on you "Let us really continue with other debates to make Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people prosper!" Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u77	A line? Mr. Ermenkov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u78	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Angelov, I listened carefully to you and was really impressed by the pathos you spoke with, and I sign under each of the words you said here and about the unification, and that there should be no division, and for the Commission that it should be closed. I have one question for you. When are you sincere now when you speak, or yesterday, when you personally introduced a small division, calling some of the MPs here red trash?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u79	Colleagues, on yesterday, several times, and today, for the first time, I will call on us to measure our words. Is there a second line? It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! This is what I was talking about a moment ago. Here again is an occasion for the MPs to enter into a defamatory rhetoric. If someone yesterday started making qualifications, it wasn't us from the Patriotic Front, it was you and your own chairman who started this rhetoric. If you've identified yourself in this call of mine, I'm sorry you recognized each other. I'll tell you something else. [[Noise and shouting from BSP LB.]] Unlike you... Don't shout from the ground! Unlike you, my grandfather was in prison before 9 September, while all of you, your grandfathers and fathers became communists and flockers after 9 September. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u81	Colleagues! Colleagues! There's no personification. Does that mean... - What's the line? Mr. Iankov will make a statement. It's not addressed to anyone personally. Mr. Iankov has the floor. [[Noise and lines.]] I gave Mr. Iankov the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u82	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm going to return the debate on the laws we're discussing. My speech will be for not accepting and not supporting the bill proposed by Mr. Metodi Andreev. In the modern world, especially now with all threats to the nation, to our national security, we really need consensus. Not just political consensus. We need to understand the different, not institutional, rules for tolerance, but for understanding. Nowadays, when they are trying to group us as belonging to domination structures in the public environment, and this is not just about religion, we must have a clear awareness that we represent the Bulgarian people. The statements from the parliamentary tribune should be defending concrete ones, not challenging the separation of historical principles, ideology or purely mahlenish blame, calling, so typical of another type of speech, but not from the parliamentary tribune. Mr. Andreev has proposed a bill with which we are returning a debate held in this parliamentary hall more than 20 years ago. Should we, at the moment, draw skeletons out of the wardrobe and not think about the future of Bulgarian citizens, but scare with fictional positions when people rely on responsible politicians to ensure their peace, ensure their better future, provide care for future generations. I urge you, by no means, to be misled by the provocation we have witnessed by fellow Members speaking from this tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u83	Thank you. A line? I won't. There are no other MPs for speeches. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information No 454-01-66, submitted by Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs. Colleagues, we're voting. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, guys, don't get in the way! [[Replying out loud among the MPs.]] Please, colleagues, don't fall to that level, please! Vote 148 MPs: 104, against 27, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 554-01-115, submitted by Angel Naydenov and a group of MPs. We vote. Vote 150 MPs: 141, against 6, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Protection of Classified Information by No 554-01-18, submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs. Vote 149 MPs: 139 against 6, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. And the last bill is No 502-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 155 MPs: 147 against 5, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. For procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u84	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the period for proposals between the first and second votes on the general bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Higher Education should be extended by six days to 14 December inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u85	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the procedural proposal to extend the period between first and second reading of the higher education bills. They voted 123 MPs: 120 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: FIRST READING OF THE LAWPROECT FOR CHANGE AND ADMINISTRY OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE CODEX, No 554-01-43. Importers - Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u86	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code, No 554-01-43, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs At its meeting held on 13 May 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Justice: Mrs. Verginiy Ruseva Deputy Minister, and Mr. Alexander Stefanov State Expert at the Department of Law. The bill was presented by the MP Hristian Mitev, who pointed out that the Bill is tasked with replacing the Institute of Silent Refusal established in art. 58 of the Administrative Procedure Code, with the silent consent, and noted that the current version of the Code creates an opportunity for administrative arbitrariness and makes it difficult to appeal the silent refusal. The proposed amendments aim at limiting inactivity in the work of the administration by creating predictability and control, as well as facilitating citizens and businesses in their participation in procedures for issuing administrative acts. In relation to the proposed introduction of the institute of silent consent, relevant amendments to the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business are also envisaged. The Committee on Legal Affairs also received an opinion from the Ministry of Justice in support of the Bill. People's representatives Kirilov, Lazarov, Mitev, Slavov, Ivanov and Georgiev took part in the discussion of the Bill, with Kirilov and Lazarov around the opinion that the alignment of the silence of the administration of consent is related to serious difficulties and dangers, as the prerequisites for corruption are being created. They argued that only the beneficiary party knows about the silently issued administrative act, while none of the interested parties is addressed, does not learn about it and cannot therefore defend themselves. Difficulties in the introduction of the silent consent would arise in cases where more persons may apply for an accommodating administrative act. Mr. Kirilov stressed that the introduction of the institute of silent consent is not applicable in cases where the administrative body is entitled to discretion, as it is impossible to assess which option for the solution to the issue this body has adopted and what its volition is. The People's Representative Mitev pointed out that the Bill is motivated by the fact that there are numerous cases where the silent refusal is cancelled by the court, the court obliges the administrative authority to issue the relevant act, the administrative authority, however, does not act, and notes that the bill provides for an obligation for the administrative authority which has not spoken within the time limit to materialise the silent consent and issue the act. The MPs Slavov and Georgiev expressed principled support for the idea of introducing the silent consent, noting the need to introduce it in an adequate form. After a vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 5 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. We will now also hear the report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Kanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u88	♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code, No 554-01-43, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 5 March 2015. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting on 1 July 2015 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code, No 554-01-43, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 5 March 2015. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Justice On the part of the importer The bill was presented by the MP Boris Yachev. According to the proposer, the aim of the proposed draft is the introduction of the principle of "silent consent', instead of that of the silent refusal, in the performance of the various administrative services. The proposed changes will limit administrative arbitrariness and inaction in the work of administration and will facilitate citizens and businesses. The Final Provisions make corresponding amendments to the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business. On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are required opinions. The Ministry of Justice supports the bill in principle. At the same time, it is considered that the bill should be refined legally-technically and guarantees of abuse should be established in its application. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria strongly supports the Bill as necessary and useful for business and citizens, recommending the preparation of an impact assessment of the Bill. The need to provide for sanctions for officials who have not issued a file requiring an administrative act within the statutory period has been noted. It is recommended to provide for a transitional period of six months from the entry into force of the Law in order to arrange for the narrowed scope of the silent refusal in special laws. The National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria supports the Law in principle, while expressing serious reservations on the unjustified application of the principle of silent consent to the administrative services provided and the issuance of the related administrative acts. There is also an opportunity for abuse of right. In the subsequent discussion the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria expressed their opinion that the Bill will create more problems than relief and expressed doubts about promoting corruption in the implementation of the principle of silent consent. A proposal was made to select the services where it is possible to apply this principle. The establishment of an interdepartmental working group was proposed to prepare proposals between first and second readings to determine the scope of the silent consent. Representatives of the Reformation bloc and the other MPs agreed with the proposal to establish a working group. After the end of the discussion and the vote with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code, No 554-01-43, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 5 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u89	Colleagues, with the opinion of the importer and the debates, we will continue after the blitz control to make a break for now. 12:00 p.m. Mrs. Kuneva and Mrs. Donchev will take part in the Blitz control. Prime Minister Borisov, Mrs. Bachvarova and Mr. Kalfin have commitments regarding the visits of prime ministers, commissioners and others today. 12:00 p.m. The beginning of blitz control. Now we're interrupting for a break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u90	Colleagues, I'm announcing the beginning of: BLITZCONTROLA. It shall be conducted in accordance with the size of the parliamentary groups. Each group has the opportunity to ask two questions. First round of the questions from the GERB group Mrs. Saveklieva will ask her first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u91	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, together with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Borisov You, Mr. Donchev, participated in the Fourth meeting of the Heads of Government of China and the Central and Eastern European countries, which took place from 24 to 26 November 2015 in Beijing. Parallel to the political meetings is organized a large trade and economic forum with nearly 1000 business representatives in the town of Suzhou. My question to you is: what are the results of the visit to China, political and economic?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u92	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u93	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Saveclieva! Indeed, on the basis of the visit, there was a series of talks in the field of economics as well as a number of meetings in a more political format. It is an indisputable fact that we cannot expect immediate results from such a visit. Yes, as a result of talks and meetings of ministers, as well as from the business delegation we have signed several interstate agreements. The joyous news is that we have signed several agreements on new investments mainly in agriculture and agricultural processing. In my opinion, however, the more significant results will take some time and I will mark here what it is about. Let's start with the general format. The initiative is an attempt by China to have a closer economic, of course, and political cooperation especially with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The fact is that Bulgaria is relatively late joining the high level in this format, but I think we have chosen the right moment given the level of the talks. This is the political highest level: Prime Minister and President. What is new on the basis of my experience of communicating with various Chinese investors in the years is that on the Chinese side there is a process of evolution and very strict compliance with all the peculiarities of European legislation.. something that was not a fact in the years, mostly about the requirements for holding a competition procedure when we talk about concession regimes, as well as compliance with European legislation in the field of State aid, and this was clearly addressed in all discussions at political level. What I would consider as new, additionally, adding a dose of flexibility in the Chinese country, opportunities not only for private sector investment, that is, the possibility not only for investment in public infrastructure, a topic that is discussed regularly, but a more active role in the field of finance, including the big news: the ability of China to participate as a partner and partner in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. One of the topics that was discussed in addition to the unstoppable talks in the field of infrastructure, we are looking for an interest of serious Chinese investors in terms of our ambitions for improving the road and railway infrastructure in the country. Of course, this must happen in the context of some clear economic logic. In addition, in the field of energy, I had the opportunity to have conversations myself. Negotiations were held with an extremely serious Chinese company, for explained reasons I will not comment on its name, which is interested in investing in new nuclear facilities in Bulgaria. What will be the final result is early to say. In just two weeks' time, we're going to meet a delegation from the same company. For me, the odds are realistic. I would like to point out that as a position of the Bulgarian side during the negotiations, we have always maintained the position that we are open to such an investment, but entirely based on market rules. Thus, it should happen without a State guarantee and without guaranteed buying-in of the electricity produced, which makes such an investment not only realistic but also extremely beneficial to the State and consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u94	A line, Mrs. Saveklieva? You won't use it. Good afternoon to Mrs. Kuneva! The group of BSP left Bulgaria is now next. Mr. Mikov, come in, you'll ask the first question. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] I wouldn't know who your question is to, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u95	It's not Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u96	Thank you, Madam President. The question should normally be to Mr. Borisov, but since he's not here...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u97	Again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u98	He's gone again! It is in Mrs. Kuneva's responsibility because it is related to our internal and foreign policy, in the portfolios of these ministries. On November 11th, in Malta, Madame Deputy Prime Minister, a meeting took place, the results of which the invisible learn them gradually, and the visible saw them on TV: Heads of State or Government are shaking hands. It is understood from the invisible results that Europe is moving towards a decision to provide 3 billion. Turkey's euro, of which 500 million of the European Union's budget and the other 2.5 billion collected by the member states. Will Bulgaria participate in the formation of this fund and on what principle? The other issue is the distribution of 400,000 Syrian refugees who are in Turkey in the member states. This is not about those 160 grand for redistribution, for which these measures are not being implemented. According to my information, only 147 were moved to Sweden and Luxembourg. What is Bulgaria's position and policy on this issue? Because Bulgaria has protected the external border of the European Union for years by its means without being a Schengen member? And he's not a Schengen member! Now, obviously, in Malta, there are arrangements for Turkey to strengthen border control, to limit the refugee wave at its border, for which it will receive 3 billion, which we from Bulgaria will pay. What is Bulgaria's policy on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u99	For an answer Mrs. Kuneva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u100	Dear Mr. Mikov, first of all, a little clarification. In fact, Bulgaria received funds to build its Schengen border. As soon as we entered the European Union in 2007, we received the so-called "Shengen facilites" and they were about 250 million. Euros. Let's be clear about this. I share your desire and insistence to see our country a member of the Schengen area. I keep working without any hesitation in that direction. At the moment, to hold Bulgaria outside Schengen, as well as Romania, it is a short-sighted and incorrect policy for me. Specifically, on your other issues, the help that the European Union will give Turkey, yes, as you know, Turkey is a candidate country. It also receives assistance from the European Union under other programmes, as we had received back in the PHARE, in the ISPA, in the Sapard. It's normal for a candidate country. Here we have a new policy that is also supported. In practice, in this trusty migration fund, this is the ninth fund, we have yet another financial opportunity to support sustainable policies. You are right that Member States will have their contribution, but it will be determined on the basis of gross domestic product. That's my guess. I still have a fully detailed procedure for financial support, I cannot say because there is none. As soon as it becomes a fact, we will discuss it as the Bulgarian position will be discussed. Parliament has plenty of opportunities through the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds to discuss with you in depth and in lengthy, the Bulgarian position before it is adopted. I personally make such a commitment if you invite me to come and talk to you when this position is forming. I stress that, in my opinion, this will be based on gross domestic product, because this is usually the basis of any contribution, but I cannot tell you what the size of Bulgaria will be. There's no such calculation. As for the meeting you're talking about, the only thing that's come out of this meeting is what we all know. If there are any subsequent talks, they were not with the participation of officially represented positions of Bulgaria and any other country, as far as we know.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u101	The line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I did not understand whether these 400,000 Syrians will be displaced, will there be new quotas for Bulgaria in general, not exactly how much, because we still have a quota to implement? As far as the Shengen fasilites are concerned, there is much more money from the Bulgarian taxpayers than 250 million. euros that have returned to Lursen, to Eurocopter, to the European concern. It's actually export credit. We used to do these operations back in the day, especially in the military industrial complex. So in Bulgaria really who-knows what is not left. The big question is what European solidarity gets the weakest, poorest, lowest gross domestic product, unlike Turkey? In fact, Turkey will receive much more than Bulgaria has received within the framework of the Shengen facilites and as European solidarity. Does the government intend to put these issues more seriously to our friends from Brussels? And the last question. France has already decided that this issue will be discussed at the Assembly with a decision of the French Parliament to decide the participation in this fund and the refugee quotas. I propose that instead of on committees, so that the citizens do not remain under the impression that something is being done secretly in the couloirs of Malta or Brussels, this issue should be discussed in the National Assembly and that it will decide on Bulgaria's participation in this fund when determining the clear quotas for refugees for Bulgaria, so that this can be decided here on behalf of the Bulgarian citizens, because in the end they pay the millions in this fund. You don't pay them, not you, not Mr. Borisov, not the opposition, not the parliament. Bulgarian citizens pay for it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u103	A hole, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u104	Mr. Mikov, I hope you'll find my words well-meaning, but I'm a citizen too. I even have the honor of chairing a party with such a name. So we are all involved in what will make Bulgaria and Europe more secure with political efforts, such as you all are in this room and others through what every Bulgarian citizen gives for the budget. I don't find anything wrong with that. How much can Bulgaria receive from the European Union? Isn't there anyone in this room who doesn't know that the maximum we can get on the funds is up to 4% of our gross domestic product? When we concluded the negotiations, as you well know, we reached the most in general, just a little less than 4%. No country can do more than that. For the next programming period, my colleague Tomislav Donchev told me that there are 15 billion, which I do not think is a depreciable amount. Otherwise, that we keep our border for ourselves, yes, we are also an external border of the European Union, I find no contradiction. To be very clear in the answer to your question, Mr. Mikov, no, another solution beyond what you know about quotas already adopted by the European Union, which not all countries support, there is no other solution. If such a decision starts to be discussed, we will all be involved in this discussion. As for the Bulgarian Parliament to vote on some of the positions, this is entirely in your power, at your decision. Personally, I am open to dialogue and discussion with you. As you wish.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u105	The Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is in order. I see they're gonna miss the first round. Maybe they'll join us later. From the group of the Reformation Block Mr. Nastimir Ananiev will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is about the development and preparation for the Presidency of the European Union. You know that Bulgaria will take over this presidency in the second half of 2018. This is very important to me, as we will give direction to the development of the most important topics then for the European Union. My question is addressed to Mrs. Kuneva: how is the preparation going? Please provide more information on how we are moving to the date 1 July 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u107	For an answer Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Indeed, the Bulgarian Presidency is the second half of 2018, for me is the centre of our efforts in the field of European politics, because the opportunities for our country are many. The question is whether we will be able to seal everyone and with what impression of Bulgaria will remain both European and our world partners. As they say, you can't make a second impression. The first Bulgarian Presidency will talk a lot about the country. Perhaps some of the people who will come to Bulgaria have never visited it before, do not know what our administrative capacity is, do not know what we think, how we behave, how we manage to deal with the organization. It is therefore very important that we do what we need to do in a number of directions: logistics, administration and, of course, the Presidency's priorities. While for the Presidency's priorities, things are still a little far away from being made after the Lisbon Treaty in a threesome. For us these are Britain and Estonia, in January it will be the first gathering of the threesome, then in all other areas we are actually in a very advanced phase of preparation. First of all, I want to tell you that the summary of the data that we have done shows that we will have about 2500 events. Eighty percent of them will be held in Brussels. In general, however, these are: 30 meetings of the European Council; the ten members of the Council; 6 high-level conferences; meetings of 215 preparatory bodies of the Council of the European Union; 35 committees; high-level committees; forums related to the activities of the other institutions of the European Union; over 20 forums of international organisations and about 95 forums, conferences; meetings; courses; lectures on topics related to the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council. By the end of the year, which is literally a few days, a detailed financial justification for modernisation and reconstruction of certain sites will be prepared so that the Presidency can be held there. The State Budget Act provides an amount for the preparation of the Presidency and a Public Procurement Plan is to be drawn up for 2016. In the process is the preparation of the Presidency's vision, the website for which a procedure under the Public Procurement Act (SIP) has already been launched. The first pilot trainings of the chairmen of working groups, most of them - 315 - have already been specified who they are. There are still several ministries to fill in the chairmen of working groups, the vice-presidents. Their training is already underway through the Institute for Public Administration and Diplomatic Institute. The most important assessment with which they start, an assessment. It is not to show ignorance, I am convinced that we have good experts, but to show what training experts need more. For me at the moment, our efforts are focused primarily on logistics, because this is actually a huge operation, connected and certainly, and with good opportunities for providing translations, good working conditions and, above all, events that will show Bulgaria in a good light.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. A line? You won't use it. From the Patriotic Front Group, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u110	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Donchev, during your last visit to China with the government delegation, it was announced that Bulgaria is planning to build the VI block of NPP "Kozloduy" with American technology of "Westinghouse" with a shareholder participation of Chinese investors 50% and 50% participation of the Bulgarian state. It is known that prior to the announcement of any investment project in energy, the relevant legal procedure of the Energy Act must be followed, it must be preceded by an analysis of the balance of generating capacities and the justified appropriateness of this new capacity. My first question is: is there a similar analysis in this direction and based on a thoughtful decision are you going to make such an investment? We are also wondering if it is in a state of the art of Bulgarian Energy Holding (BEH) to secure the remaining 50% investment, as we are talking about an investment in the order of between 7 and 10 billion. Euros. So some 5 billion for example could BEH provide them and how would this reflect on the price of electricity in Bulgaria? Last but not least: isn't it threatening the launch of such a project, given the declining consumption of electricity in Bulgaria, from the premature closure of units V and VI in the nuclear power plant
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u111	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Veselinov, such an investment project is not yet available. There's a negotiation going on. Depending on the outcome of these negotiations, a similar project can be reached, and it may not be achieved, even more so, that the 50 percent participation of the Bulgarian state or some state-owned company is currently pure speculation. For your information, without going into details of the negotiation technology, the most involved scenario that we have commented on at the moment is minority participation of one of the companies. Our logic is, if the market in Bulgaria or in the Balkans has potential, there is a logic - purely business, market, when this makes sense of an investment, the investor is welcome to invest here. A very separate issue is that if we talk about such an investment, its only purpose is not and cannot be the only Bulgarian market. From the talks that have been held at the moment, a possible such investment, a possible similar project will aim to export electricity to other Balkan countries. What results the negotiations will lead to is early to say. I consider the preliminary talks promising. In no case am I in a position to generate enthusiasm earlier than is necessary. In any case, if negotiations enter a mature phase, all objects of national interest will be taken into account, first of all, of course, talking about the security of citizens and avoiding any environmental risk conditions. That is to say, we need to make sure that we are working with a completely secure technology that does not pose any danger to anyone, both for citizens and for the environment. Secondly, of course, are the economic benefits. The external position of the state is that we believe that such a project could happen with minimal or no State involvement. It should be fully implemented on a market basis. If there is any development in the case, I expect one in the coming months, of course, as is the order, I will keep the honourable National Assembly informed of everything that is happening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u113	Mr. Vesselinoff, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u114	Dear Mr. Donchev, first of all it is a relief to hear that this is not about serious participation. However, economic logic really must be leading us, and we are for the development of nuclear energy. However, it must develop at times when there is a need for such generating capacities. In this spirit, we would like to make sure that no new long-term contracts are signed for the purchase of electricity, which will once again be a burden on citizens' accounts and businesses, of course, on which the price of expensive electricity is ultimately reflected. That's our wish, too. I see you're thinking in the same direction that I'm personally satisfied with.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u115	A hole, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u116	Just a brief addition. The talks with the company in question started under two explicit conditions on our part. Such a project can only be considered if it is not linked to state guarantees and is not linked to contracts to guarantee the purchase of electricity. The most involved scenario involves a minority participation of a state-owned company. This is the most engaging scenario we are looking at. That's what I was trying to figure out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u117	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Next is the group of the BDZ. A question from Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers, dear colleagues! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Donchev. Over the past few weeks, we have watched thousands of people go out on the street periodically, protesting the government's decision to raise the wine stickers. I think their protests are quite justified. People want a visible improvement in the roads. So my question is this: is a percentage of the price of already increased wine stickers intended to go for reconstruction of second-class and third-class roads? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u119	Mr. Donchev, we're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u120	Dear Mr. Iglev, no one has had any illusions that in raising any fee, tax or any price, this leads to a positive reaction from the citizens. It is an authentic interest of citizens to pay less. In this sense, any discontent or protest in this direction is absolutely justified from their point of view. In addition, I would like to inform you that Bulgaria has 19 800 km of Republican infrastructure, roads of different classes of highways, first, second and third grade, and at least one third of this infrastructure is in poor condition. In addition to existing, including infrastructure built in recent years, we have many new needs. Mostly here I want to mark the severe imbalance between the North and the South in terms of built transport infrastructure. To the south we have three highways, the third one is almost ready, remains the heavyest and most expensive section, and in the north we only have a piece of Currently, around 224 million are collected from wine stickers on an annual basis. lv. Amount absolutely insufficient for adequate maintenance of the roads from the Republican roads of all classes, including highways, and absolutely insufficient for investment in new facilities. Of course, we also use funds from the Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure"..................................................................................................... 900 million. euros, which also do not reach the needs we have. I'm talking about building, European money we can't use for maintenance. With the increase in the price of the wine sticker, the annual revenue, I hope, will be about 300 million, which will increase the ability and build new facilities here we are talking mainly about Directly to your question. Yes, the funds will be used not only for the construction of new sites, but also for the maintenance of the old ones. I do not foresee any discrimination between different types and classes of roads, i.e. highways, first, second and third grade. Of course, the leading criterion in determining the priority of repairs cannot be any political or other emotions, and this remains the burden of the road section. That is, the more busy it is and the more it is used, the more it should be on the priority list for sections that will be rehabilitated or repaired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u121	Here you go, Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your reply, Minister Donchev, but the highways are really good, but the second-class and third-class roads are essential. I will give you an example of the road that I have asked Minister Pavlova, Topolovgrad, which is really for repair. I will give you, for example, another time from Haskovo region I personally do not recommend that you go through these roads, because your life will be seriously threatened and in danger to you and to the people who travel with you. However, the second-class and third-class roads in the country are of great importance. I'm glad that some of the price hikes for the wineries will go exactly to reconstruct second-class and third-class roads. So thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u123	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u124	These are not the only areas in Bulgaria that are in poor condition or in poor condition. Besides, last year I passed about 180 grand. Miles and I've been through at least half of these road sections, so I don't need you to inform me of their condition. Both north and south in different regions of the country there are many roads of lower class that are in poor condition. Of course, in order to repair but willpower, except skill, apart from desire, it takes money. She needs money! It is for 2016 that the price change of the wine sticker is one of the steps in this direction. Of course, the more capital step that guarantees greater justice is the introduction of a combination between an electronic winemaker and a toll system. Because the most unfair way to generate means of maintaining roads is a tax, because it is put on a vehicle no matter where and how it moves. The wine is relatively unfair, because there you can choose either on Republican roads or you don't move, respectively you buy, or you don't buy a wine. The fairest system is the one that tells you how far you're going. And that's what ambition is. Together with colleagues from the Regional Ministry and not only the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance, other administrations, we hope that in 2017 such a system, based precisely on the travelled kilometers, will be introduced in Bulgaria. This will generate more revenue, and it will mean greater justice, that is, you drive more, you use the roads more and you pay more. Last nuance. Often, investments in highways are opposed to low-end roads. In fact, such investments are linked. When there is greater density of highway installations, they manage to get heavy traffic out of small roads. In this sense, their condition can be preserved, preserved for a longer time and be better, because it is a well-known fact that, apart from the elements of nature, low temperatures, high temperatures, snowfall, rains and so on, what mainly harms particularly lower class roads is heavy traffic, not cars. If we make it possible to take it out in terms of highways, this is a chance to preserve the roads of a lower class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u125	The word has a representative of Mr. Notev is preparing to ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! My first question is to Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva. Good afternoon! Mrs. Kuneva, you were the initiator for the introduction and consideration of the first reading of the Bill, which we can generally define as the Anti-Corruption Act and raise a new level of countering events as a conflict of interest with abuse of office. This bill did not receive support in the Chamber. The information is that it will be brought to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly for the second time. At the same time, we are witnessing in today's events that should be fully addressed to the field of action of this Bill. I am referring to the scandalous revelations about the relationship in the judicial system, which are already leaving the field of anonymous statements or of the confidential signals contained in legitimate or illegal recordings of magistrates' conversations. We are already talking about an authorized statement by a former magistrate who, in his statement to the Ethics Committee of the Supreme Judicial Council, states that he was influenced by the Chief Prosecutor of the Republic, directly influenced the way in which a case was decided, which was assigned to the same magistrate, and in this regard it shows that the case was of interest to a foreign ambassador. These statements differ qualitatively from what they do not pay particular attention to because they were not proven to be reliable before the expertise to be carried out on the phone records. My question is: how do you view it as an event in your portfolio of internal order and security, and how does it qualify for such information, is it of a nature to influence internal order and security? How you react now and can you convince us with your answer that if it were adopted and this Law was in force, which for the second time you would offer the attention of the people's representation, the reaction would be more effective and more effective, of course. This is not tautology, I'm just trying to put these terms in place so that you can convince us that we need to give support to the Law proposed by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u127	For an answer Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u128	Thank you, Mr. Notev. In fact, today, on December 3rd, it is formally the first possible date on which I can introduce a bill again with the same subject matter. The bill is ready. I have asked all parliamentary groups, absolutely all without exception, to set a time when they are comfortable, to be able to meet the groups again and explain the main postulates in the Law. I have also asked the Coalition Development Council to gather and examine this bill. If the MPs have the idea to submit their separate bill with one or another representative or parliamentary group, I do not see any obstacles to enriching, so to speak, the debate, with different opinions. Do you think it could affect that? Yeah, I think so. But it's a law of prevention. That is, if we have a working law that can detect property to see exactly how it is influenced, its increasing law, by the way, with its current version expands beyond access to bank accounts, has access to insurance and statistical information, that is to say, there is a wider scope of information that the Bureau can use. He'll also explore the conflict of interest. If these things are done consciously, constantly and without any deviations, I'm sure the environment will change. It has changed in Poland, it has changed in Slovenia, it has changed in Romania, it has changed in many countries that have started their way to the European Union together with us. I don't think we're any worse. What do I think of the facts being presented? Of course, there should be a check of both where and why the records flow and their content itself. I find it difficult to make such records in violation of the Law. The facts presented are very worrying and once again prove the need for judicial reform, including a clear vote in the Supreme Judicial Council. The leading idea of judicial reform is precisely the independence of the judiciary and the reduction of political influence that the judiciary is affected, I think is a fact which is unfortunately well known. In terms of who and how can handle it, there is a clear description of the institutions that have to carry out... In my opinion, we shouldn't be looking for emergency organs. The state will be fine then and will become normal when the institutions start doing their job. That's basically not who what or how loud he says it. Of course, those involved in the scandal should not participate in the inspection itself. This is more than clear and logical and it is a matter of understanding and good practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Notev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u130	Thank you, Mr. Host. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I don't think we understand each other. My question focuses on the actions that can be taken now and which would be possible in the course of the Law proposed by you. I put it this way: will you convince us of the need for this Law? If we talk about it with one perspective and the opportunities that it gives, but we do not exercise them, that is, of course, not an answer. So I say, what are we going to do now that we don't only have recordings, we have a first-person statement from a magistrate that shows what impact and by whom it was shown on it. What do we do now? With the opportunities given to you by the current position in the portfolio for which you are responsible, what will be your actions to partition and end these practices on the one hand; and, on the other hand, establishing the truthfulness of these known facts, because they are terrifying and monstrous. You're saying that, yes, it's a matter of wish to remove individuals who are involved and who are listed individually. Whose care is that? Will you do something about it? The Supreme Judicial Council is currently formed with the participation of the parliamentary quota. Will the political forces do what is necessary in order for the representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council to require the removal of the Prosecutor General, which is indicated in the relevant words and statements of the verification, to limit its ability to influence the outcome of that examination? That was actually my question. You answered me, of course, with an extensive exposé and presentation of the Law we are about to see. There is nothing wrong with that, we will hear these words as soon as it is presented. But I demand an answer to this: what are you going to do now, what will the political forces that we have sent for members of the SJC do in such a harsh violation of the principle of independence and separation of authorities by a man who holds a high and responsible position?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u131	Thank you, dear Mr. Notev. Madame Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u132	Mr. Notev, first of all, I want to tell you that I intend to abide by the Law, both the principles and the spirit of the Law. The principles of the Law on the division of law and general separation of powers are a fact that we know well. As they have said, even if the Law is strict, even if the Law is bad, it is the Law and is better than there are no rules "Dura lex," sed lex. So asking me what I'm gonna do at the Supreme Judicial Council doesn't seem serious to me. Sorry, you're a colleague, we know what this is about. The power is in the Council of Ministers with the opportunity to propose a bill which we will do after the amendment of the Constitution or is in the power of the Members of the National Assembly, who are not accidentally assigned such a right to submit a bill directly to the National Assembly. From then on, it is really a matter of gathering a majority and people who think in one direction, a job that we are all about to bring together a critical majority that wants changes. Proof of what I'm telling you is not general talk, these are just the laws of the country, make them more specific, if you consider it necessary, is that even the Minister of Justice, who is a member of the Supreme Judicial Council, you know that there is no right to vote. That is, the involvement of the executive is very, very clearly outlined. In this sense, I cannot think of now, here and before you, any body other than the Supreme Judicial Council. You are about to vote on a Constitution, you are about to vote on a Law on the Judiciary. You know we couldn't deal with the Penal Code. There's a lot of procedural work, procedural improvement of the laws. There's no easy solution. However, easy decisions in legal matter are usually not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. It's the ABB Parliamentary Group's turn. The word has the popular representative Svetoslav Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question to Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva: it has been almost a year since the Council of Ministers adopted the updated strategy for continuing the reform of justice. Since then, we have been under the impression that the initiative is mainly the parliamentary groups. Laws or amendments to laws are introduced, which only appear to be related to judicial reform. On the other hand, we are hearing more and more opinions from constitutionalists and experts that the envisaged amendments to the Constitution will only lead to personnel changes, and judicial reform is far from being limited to that. On the other hand, the Ministry of Justice, dear Mrs. Kuneva, has focused only on amendments to the Constitution. We do not see any legislative initiatives directly related to judicial reform aimed at ensuring a quick, economical and fair trial. We also do not see any plan to implement the strategy, but rather chaotic actions, and in a fragmented order. In this regard, my question to you is the following "in your opinion" as Deputy Prime Minister, directly monitoring judicial reform, is it acceptable for a Bulgarian minister to speculate and mislead the Bulgarian public that the European Commission wants the removal of certain responsible factors in the judiciary of Bulgaria, from which, as we all know, the Commission has been very energetically distinguished? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This is a question which also raises a second question of no less importance........................................ we will build citizens' trust in Bulgarian and European institutions or is this not the right option?................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u135	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u136	Dear Mr. People's Representative, I also wish things would happen faster and I know that we need an accelerator to be able to present faster results to Bulgarian citizens. Along with the acceleration, however, my colleague Minister Ivanov also needs stability when working in the area of judicial reform, which we are all engaged with. This stability is going through changes in the Constitution. I believe that we should build a solid core of consensus to make these amendments to the Constitution, which will unblock the Law on the Judicial Government, and not immediately after its adoption to be attacked in the Constitutional Court and to go back, and when we do so, when we do this first step, we can literally from the next day after you vote on the Constitution, start the next, even deeper change that will succeed in inspiring even the most radically dream of the ideal judicial system in Bulgaria. But let's take the first step, it's extremely important. Only then will I think Minister Ivanov be able to deploy his full capacity. You know that the Law on the Judiciary is indeed an extremely hard-working effort. We have a very important change related to the penal part of law, you know that we failed in the previous National Assembly with the Penal Code, but these are things that are very necessary for us, the overall reform of our criminal law, both in the procedural law and in its penal part. I'm not opening up a story about how important the decriminalization of certain types of cases is. I won't even open a fairy tale that we now have to piece by piece change our Penal Code, because we are not ready for such events as terrorism, as all forms of unknown phenomena. That is to say, we are about to have this conversation about a major criminal reform. I would like to ask all of you, and that is, how can I say, beyond what I have written in my preparation, let us calm down the tone shortly before the adoption of the Constitution, which I hope will happen. I call for a formation of a consensus that we all stick to as much as we can do so that we can move forward. Otherwise, the European Commission said very clearly in the letter of the first Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Timmerman, which I published at the moment when I received it, without any comments, that the Commission's role was not to enter into discussions on how Member States should organise independent investigations and individual cases, but at the same time reminded us that this, now there is a need, is a full implementation of the judicial reform strategy and other key measures such as overcoming procedural loopholes used to avoid justice, which will help increase confidence in the reform of Bulgarian citizens and those I want to invest in Bulgaria. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I believe that we can safely translate this diplomatic language into actions which, with the help of the Bulgarian Parliament, I hope literally next week will become a fact. Thank you for your concern and please let us, with more tranquility and constructiveness, proceed to the implementation of judicial reform.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u138	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Kuneva! My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister of Economic Policy Mr. Donchev. Mr. Donchev, yesterday the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation Dmitry Medvedev issued an official announcement that Russia at this stage freezes negotiations with the Republic of Turkey on the construction of South Stream and the Atomic Power Plant.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u139	It's in Turkish flow.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u140	Turkish stream, that's right. My question to you is quite specific.. Shouldn't Bulgaria at this very moment take advantage of the rare geopolitical situation and restart the negotiations with the Russian Federation, on the one hand, and as a member of the European Union, start consultations with the European Commission, the Energy Commissioner, in the first place, to restart, which will be entirely in the interests of the European Union? Of course, I realize that this is a complex procedure, but do you think your government and you as Deputy Prime Minister on this issue, monitoring the economy and energy, are doing so in the coming days? After all, it is about transit fees, of which, as Greece claims, will win according to the preliminary contract, which was signed about 5 months ago, but I do not know if it has been ratified, about 200 million. Euros. That is my specific question to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u141	Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u142	Dear Mr. Enchev, the problems with the Turkish Stream Project are not caused only as a result of the recent crisis in relations between Russia and Turkey. This project has a number of problems, including the same problems that the South Stream project had and especially for compliance with European legislation, especially the third liberalisation package, especially in the part about the passage through the first European Republic of Greece. In essence, the problems are identical to the problems that the South Stream project had in Bulgaria. I am in a hurry to make it clear that we have not been waiting for this crisis to unravel in order to launch some kind of negotiations with the European Commission. In recent months, meetings and talks with representatives of different structures of the European Commission have been held with a single aim to make a precise legal analysis of what is possible according to European legislation, allowing the use and transit of gas coming from a Russian pipe across the Black Sea. These talks continue at the moment, relying not only on the Commission's cooperation, I said that this is not only the Commissioner for Energy, but also other units in the Commission. Apart from cooperation, I'm counting on this to happen at maximum speed. We have not been waiting for a change in the geopolitical environment to take such an initiative. Allow me to note my personal opinion, following the situation in the smallest detail that the original version of the South Stream Project is unlikely. Rather, what could currently be considered likely is what I just marked a Russian tube, one, two or three, less likely four, passing through the Black Sea with a reception terminal near Varna. From now on, there are two options left, if of course all of this is brought to a good end, or Bulgaria to build the transit route across the country, partly using part of the existing infrastructure, investing in a new one, or seeking cooperation with one of the major gas operators in Europe. Which of the two versions could be applied, we will think about when we congratulate ourselves on the first, more significant and more expensive part of the investment. Negotiations with the Russian Federation can start when there is a clear position on the part of the European Commission. At present, we cannot negotiate because we do not have a clear scenario to work on. I hope this happens as soon as possible, it's not just up to us. What we've been doing at the political level for the past few months, even in the last six months, I think it's been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u143	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Here's a line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u144	Mr. Donchev, immediately to replicate you during the visit to Moscow of the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova were discussed these issues about South Stream. These ominous events had not yet occurred with the overthrow of the Russian bomber over Syrian territory by the Turkish air force. So talks with the Turkish side continue to be held. However, my specific question is this: shouldn't the European Commission, regardless of whether or not you get consent, start consultations at a high level and not at an expert level? Why not the Prime Minister personally call Prime Minister Medvedev, and why not President Putin, and put this question directly? Does the suspension of the negotiations on the Turkish Stream only mean the freezing of the negotiations or the suspension of the project, as this issue has not been clarified yet. For none of us is the project being cleared, is the project frozen? Since the suspension of negotiations, if I have to be realistic, it does not mean that the project will be halted. But here I have one concern and, I hope, you will share it in the Chamber and also with the TV viewers, we already have the statements of Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova and Prime Minister Borisov, the second during a meeting with the American Chamber of Commerce boasted that he was personally deserving for the suspension of the South Stream project. So this will perhaps be one of the obstacles to starting negotiations with the Russian side, as the Russian side reacted immediately after this statement in the face of Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, who said that such an application from the head of the executive of an independent state does not speak well about the independence of this country. So I would very much ask you to clarify at a high level is there at least such a telephone call planned?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u145	Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u146	Dear Mr. Enchev, I will try to deprive my conversation and answer from all kinds of emotional and political nuances. I am unable, on behalf of the Prime Minister, to make a commitment to what conversation he will have with whom he will have. One more important clarification. "Turkish Stream" is not a project on which we should speak. It does not pass through Bulgaria. He appeared as a substitute for political, legal or technical reasons for a stream that was passing through Bulgaria. The only thing we can talk about in terms of the Turkish Stream is that we specifically insist on following the exact same rules that are followed in Bulgaria on the occasion of the termination of the South Stream. And rest assured, that's what we're doing. On a political level, you were correct. During Minister Petkova's visit, we expressed our clear position that despite the change we continue to take an interest in such a project. That's already been said. And it's said more than once at different levels. However, in order to move things in the direction of concrete and in the direction of happening, this cannot be done only on the basis of political will and political declarations. This is what happens when an adequate, mostly legal mechanism is found to happen. I sincerely count on it, as I said just now, for one to be found. I'm optimistic. The work done so far shows that there is such a scenario and to repeat what I said just now I hope this will happen as soon as possible in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u147	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Moving on to the second round of questions - the Parliamentary Group of GERB? Apparently, they have no questions. The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the question I have to ask. He's connected to energy. Rather, it should be asked to the Prime Minister because it concerns overall policy, but clearly you will have to answer because you will be replacing him right now here. The Minister of Energy has repeated several times that from January 1st Bulgaria will introduce the so-called liberalization of the energy market. Several times he talked about the fact that some price hike is expected. At the same time, talks were spoken and discussions were held in the future indefinitely, that the problem of US power plants would be solved, where the sale of electricity could not be liberalised in any form, but sold under fixed contracts. The same applies to renewable energy sources. In fact, we have a market in which half of the product offered will be not at market prices but at fixed prices. At the same time, small producers will come out of the so-called market, those who enjoy low tensions will go to the free market and the amount of people to whom this price will be allocated to fixed contracts will decrease. All of this gives the minister a reason to talk about a price increase, but she does not know exactly how much, she expects the World Bank in some advisory contract, which is not known whether it is implemented and when it will be implemented, but given that today we are 4 December, and liberalization is expected to hit us, hit us, or fall on our head, if I may say so, on 1 January, I want you to answer the question: what are the government's expectations regarding the price of electricity for the ordinary, normal Bulgarian citizen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u149	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. It's December 3rd. Here you are, Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u150	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, the overall liberalisation of the energy market in Bulgaria is done not only because of commitments we have to European legislation, but because of the firm belief that this is for the benefit of consumers. You yourself know because you are interested in energy issues, that partial liberalisation in terms of industrial consumers has led to a number of benefits. Above all, the introduction of competitive rights and mechanisms and the possibility for them to buy electricity at more competitive prices. In fact, if the model is made and applied correctly, such an effect should also have to be made with regard to the end-user, including individuals and households. Directly to your question: what will be the price of electricity after liberalisation? No one can answer that question. If someone calls you an exact number or percentage, change, they'll probably lie to you. And the probability of guessing is just as much as someone trying to predict what the price of hazelnuts will be in the fall of next year. Despite my joking tone, the subject is extremely serious and it is monitored with great attention, mostly based on the experience of other countries. Experience in other countries shows the following: immediately after the full introduction of the liberal market there is indeed an increase in price. It's different in different countries. This is linked to the need for time to work with market mechanisms. It is therefore extremely important that the market is designed so that market mechanisms allow market rules to work. The price is then lowered to some lower levels, in many cases even lower than those on which consumers bought on the regulated market previously. An important clarification "the full introduction of a total liberal market with regard to the end-user will hardly be a fact on 1 January. There are some important steps that need to happen. This is the activation of the independent energy exchange, as well as the use of the financial model that World Bank experts are currently developing. On January 1st, at the beginning of next year, perhaps the first serious steps will be a fact, but it is unlikely that in terms of the end consumer we will have a total liberal market. This will probably happen in February or March. Two or three months later. Like here, I, as a particular advantage, believe that this will be outside the heating season. If there are temporary fluctuations, I hope they will be very small, they will in no way be felt negatively in social terms by the Bulgarian consumer. Despite the concerns we have, everyone has a legitimate right when it comes to the price of electricity, everyone who is concerned about both business and domestic consumers, everyone has the right to be concerned, but in the end I hope that we will succeed in having a truly functioning liberal market, because this means more rights and benefits for everyone. Mostly the consumer's ultimate right to choose. If he is not satisfied with one supplier, not only the price, the service provided, the service, you know that the service, when we talk about the supply of electricity, is often among the quoted problems, he has the right to change it. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Which introduces real competition, introduces competitive pressure and finally better conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u151	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Right to the line, Mr. Ermenkov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Donchev, I am glad that you give examples of countries in which a model has been introduced, but in none of these countries there are the so-called So we can't escape these contracts and their prices. The pattern that follows the other countries, with fluctuation up, then falling down, for me it is very worrying that we will not be able to do it. Among other things, even assuming that after price increases there will be a decrease, yet you do not deny the fact that there will be an increase in these prices. I'd like to ask the following question. Yesterday we adopted a budget in which nothing social happened, all social payments for poor people were frozen. At the same time, the increase in the price of electricity means that the number of so-called "energy poor" will increase, which are currently under the World Bank criteria 61%, and if the price of electricity is increased, it will probably reach 70. 75. There is nothing in the budget for the compensation of these energy poor, emerging in connection with an increase in price. My question is this. If you are not aware, I would advise you to meet at the time of the Oresharski government the development of a model, together with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, was started to compensate for the so-called energy poverty. This model could not be introduced, given the early fall of government power, new elections and so on. Please don't think of it as a pickle, but check how things are. In addition to this model, there are other models in the so-called 'differentiated tariffs' and so on. It is good, apart from liberalization, to talk about compensation for the energy poor, because in the end they turn out to be the majority of the Bulgarian people.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u153	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Right on the back of the dot, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u154	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I cannot agree with everything you have said, but I agree with one thing: solving the social problems of the people you call energy poor. At European level, the same term is used. The method for solving their difficulties related to the payment of electricity costs, especially for heating, is related not to attempts to artificially regulate the price of electricity, but is a matter of social policy and social payments. It is a good thing that you mention the efforts made in previous periods "those efforts have not been forgotten. Including in recent meetings with a number of experts from the European Commission, we discussed the need to introduce a comprehensive and sustainable over time and in the years such a system to help energy poor people. As for the first nuance of your question, allow me to repeat. With regard not to internal mechanisms, with regard to the end-user, liberalisation will be a fact outside the heating season. So these temporary fluctuations of the price I hope will be quite modest and I really hope they will be temporary. This will be a test of the extent to which there is a market after all, a real market. There is no danger that they will reflect negatively on the ability to pay the electricity used for the simple reason that in spring, summer months it is many times less than during the heating season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u155	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. The DPS Parliamentary Group has the floor of the Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Imamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u156	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Donchev. Dear Mr. Donchev, yesterday the National Assembly passed the Budget Act for the following year. Naturally, I will not bring you back to the lengthy discussion that took place with regard to the budget. My question is related to a specific detail of this budget, which, in my opinion, not only was not paid the necessary attention in my opinion. These are the effects of the absorption of European funds. In a number of media speeches and publications, both in Bulgaria and Europe, it was said that the European funds envisaged for Bulgaria were to be cut. My question relates to this: what will be the effects of this cutting? Will they in any way affect the budget already adopted and the financial stability enshrined in the schemes of this budget? I would like to remind you that in the report to the budget accompanying the project, it is intended for the next three years to have an effect, and a significant effect for some industries, from the absorption of European funds. For example, the overall effect, which is measured by increasing the gross domestic product, is 3.3% in three years. The effect on imports is 6.7%. The effect on private consumption is 3,3%. The effect on private investment, note.. 13.6%. The effect on employment is 2.2%. The effect on the average salary is 6%. I'm getting back to my question. If this does not happen because the budget is made in the assumption that all the European funds provided must be used for this period, what will be the negative effects of reducing the funds for Bulgaria by the European Union?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u157	Thank you, Mr. Imamov. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u158	Mr. Imamov, the next time I am in Parliament or no matter how I bring you the full breakdown of the latest analysis, which is done with the SIBILA tool, this is a simulation tool with which we measure the effect of EU funds on the main macroeconomic indicators. You quoted some of the new data. Of course, he has much more incisions, we have cuts at financial instrument level. We have global scenarios according to the absorption rate, where up to the number level, breakdowns and details are visible all information. Including there you can refer to things that I would hardly say from the parliamentary tribune, especially because of the limited time. The fact is that European funds have a significant impact on the entire economic situation in the country. It's right not to overexpose. It is often commented that 80% of public investment is at the expense of European funds. This does not mean that our economy is entirely dependent on European funds, insofar as they are a modest share of public spending, less than 10%, 9% for a strong year such as 2015, and a relatively modest share of gross domestic product. In any case, there can be no more than 4%. The fact is that they have a focused impact on a number of sectors. Such an example is infrastructure, with all subsequent effects on the economy. Directly to your question: what would happen if Bulgaria were restricted or not able to use European funds? The SIBILA model gives the most direct, direct answer to the question because it measures the difference between what would happen if there are no European funds, and what happens if they do. The most negative scenario is one variable that we compare, this is the scenario without European funds. Let me draw more attention to the political probability of developing a similar negative scenario. One scenario is internal if the Member State concerned has significant difficulties in managing the funds. You see, serious efforts are being made in this direction and currently Bulgaria is successfully making use of European money. The processes at European level are more disturbing: the new costs that are being set in connection with the new crises and the refugee wave. There are already talks about additional funding in the area of security. Bulgaria's position on all formats, all talks is that we should not allow for a re-negotiation of the so-called Cohesion Package, i.e. the funds that have already been agreed by 2020. Of course, it is difficult for me to speak on behalf of the European institutions and on behalf of all the Member States. We can't rule out that scenario at first. Rather, we must hold on to our firm position and seek the support of other Member States not to do so. Because it is an indisputable fact that if there comes to problems, Bulgaria, unlike all other Member States, together with Romania, will be in a worse situation, given what it has the opportunity to benefit from its membership. Just to remind you that cohesion policy has absolutely no status as a charity. It aims to bring the new Member State, within a period of 15 years of 20 years, as quickly as possible, to the so-called structural assumptions with the old Member States. The limitation of this possibility is essentially unfair treatment of different Member States depending on the different waves of enlargement. We're keeping a close eye on the situation. Personally, I go to all the advice on common issues, where cohesion policy is discussed, although this is not always the mandatory format, for the simple reason that I am extremely concerned about all the risks associated with the possibility of opening up the multiannual financial framework and possible re-negotiation of the cohesion package. We'll do everything we can to make sure that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u159	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Mr. Ivanov? You're giving up the right to a line. The word is the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block. Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u160	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Donchev and he is related to the implementation of the National program for energy and efficient renovation of multifunctional residential buildings. Dear Mr. Donchev, you probably know that this year for the implementation of the Programme are foreseen in the state budget 100 million. BGN, at least that was the information from the Ministry of Finance. The criteria for including projects under this programme are in line with a decree of the Council of Ministers, if I am not mistaken two decrees setting out the criteria and ways in which the Programme is implemented. What we did as a check-up found that Student chairs and dormitories, I mean student dorms, are not allowed to apply for this Programme. My question is precisely in this regard, as I think it is a nonsense, provided that the state allocates 100 million for the renovation of private buildings, buildings in which very often people do not even live. At the same time, there are at least 100 blocks in Student City, with three students in each room and this is an absolutely effective investment by the state in the renovation of these dorms, they cannot participate in this Programme. My question is: will you support the inclusion of student dormitories in the implementation of this Programme in the forthcoming amendment of such a decree, if there is any political will to do so?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u161	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Mr. Donchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u162	I want to be good and cooperative, and I also want to be honest. In order to answer your question categorically, I need to do a detailed analysis, exhausting all other options for financing such a type of infrastructure. The national program is focused on private property anyway. You know why and you know what the big problem is - the extremely broken property in multi-family residential buildings, the inability to start repairs and renovations at a relatively lower rate of funding there. This is the experience of the years. That is why the program was made with such a cut and such rules. Student dormitories possess the scars of rather public infrastructure, meaning it is not a private person or is not owned by the persons who inhabit them. In order to give you a clear answer to the question, first of all, I would like to carefully investigate the possibility of financing them from another financial instrument. Of course, there are details here in which area they fall into, because you know that the interventions or projects that are implemented under the "Regions in growth" programme are determined by the zoning, which is made by the integrated plans for urban recovery and development. Also relevant is the type of legal person who owns the infrastructure in question. It becomes a little more complicated if they are owned by commercial companies, given all the State aid hypotheses that occur in such a case. In order to give you a firm answer, first of all, I need to do a detailed analysis. If it proves impossible to finance them from another financial instrument, I will limit myself to looking favorably at such an idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u163	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Mr. Tanev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u164	Dear Mr. Donchev, I thank you for your preliminary support for the inclusion of these residential buildings. Just in support of the arguments I just said, I would like to tell you that in the last four years, no funds have been allocated for the renovation of these dorms. Unfortunately, the 2016 budget is also zero this year. Zero I specifically asked the Ministry of Finance, and in the three-year budgetary framework are also zero. I think that all efforts should be made to include, of course, on a competitive basis, I do not say to separate explicit resources priority for them, let them compete like everyone else. As for the territorial distribution of the dorms, there are also such in the whole country, there are also in Sofia, there are also in Shumen, in Varna, and there are also in Plovdiv. I am convinced that in terms of regional plans they will fall into the relevant areas. The question is to give them the opportunity to apply in the appropriate order and I thank you for your intention to make this a fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u165	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. A hole, Mr. Donchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u166	I would like to make an important point. When we talk about territorial distribution, I didn't mean that of the country. I meant within the respective urbanised territory within the respective city, in so far as the investments that are being made and will be made by the Operational Programme "Regions in growth" are subject to plans for urban reconstruction and development. And there are priority areas in which areas can be invested and areas in which, based on the pre-designed plan, this is much more difficult. The subject is meaningful and I accept that it has serious social and economic significance. However, to be thorough, public financing is not the only scenario to take such measures, especially when the infrastructure has one owner, that is, one building belongs to one owner. There is another scenario that has been successfully implemented in many places in the country, including local authorities, when it comes to, for example, education or other type of infrastructure. These are the so-called guaranteed results contracts, relatively poorly known, unfortunately, where repairs are being carried out by the company involved. The owner has no obligation to pay them immediately and the cost coverage is based on the savings from heating bills for a certain period of time. In good cases it is 3 or 4 years, in not so good from an economic point of view, this period is longer and reaches 6 or 7 years. In parallel with all the possibilities to mobilise the public funding of me, I would like to see more renovation schemes that are based on the real economic benefits that could be hidden in one such event, judging from the experience of other countries. In many other countries, the economic mechanisms for renovation of both multi-family residential buildings and large public property buildings are precisely such. They are based on future savings, that is, if up to now they have paid 100 leva, figuratively speaking, for heating, for one period of time after the repair. " 2 or 3 years, you will continue to pay 100 leva, only 50 of them will go to cover the costs of the repair, after which you will have the opportunity to pay the lower value of the bill, because there will no longer be anything to cover as a prepaid cost. The bills are dropping. Experience has shown that if energy efficiency measures have been adequately implemented, they could fall below 50%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u167	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Mr. Angelov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u168	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! My question is addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva. It is related specifically to the topic "Turkey and the A lot of information has come out lately, both in other countries, from various intelligence services and from different media, which shows that the Republic of Turkey is indirectly trading oil with the Islamic State. We have listened several times to the Prime Minister to mention that Bulgaria would support the Republic of Turkey in having a buffer zone in northern Iraq under the control of the Republic of Turkey, which is clearly in defence of Turkish national interests, but given that such facts are coming out, which show that the Republic of Turkey clearly finances this formation, which has been called the Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u169	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mrs. Kuneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u170	Dear Mr. Angelov, both in national and international politics, our only chance is to lean on institutions. What you are asking me is about any information you need, of course, to collect, including the European Union. The only concrete answer I can give you is that the Bulgarian government will certainly support the creation of a European intelligence service, which is currently under consideration. From now on, putting an entire country under a common denominator related to practices, say, trade, arms trade, oil and so on, seems more than excessive to me. You know that there are conventions that are related to both human trafficking and money laundering, but they always carry an individual assessment of such criminal behaviour. Turkey must, of course, have its authorities to ensure that international conventions are not violated. If any country comes up with specific data on any other country, I do not include Turkey here, this must be done accordingly, and the international authorities dealing with an investigation, money laundering, trade with countries that are excluded from normal trading partners must come up with a formal opinion. The opposite would probably be good investigative journalism, but very bad foreign policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u171	The line, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u172	Madam President! Thank you for the clarity you've brought in. It is true that the data is not official. It is true that there is no solution on this issue to any European or international institution, but ultimately, when there is such information that comes out, it is good to be analyzed by the Foreign and Council of Ministers and Bulgaria to be prepared for any decisions concerning this conflict. We have seen what is happening in the Republic of Turkey in the last decade. We see that it is moving towards a totalitarian state, an undemocratic state, a country that is Islamised. We see political repression, killings and arrests there, so I hope that the Bulgarian government will not have a position on any case that can be found in this hot spot in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u173	Are you going to use a hole? No. Now it's the BBC group. Mr. Rosen Petrov will ask the second question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u174	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva. Following the strengthening of the migrant wave in Europe and terrorist acts in Paris, in the last two weeks, some representatives of European countries have been talking very hard about creating something like mini Schengen. My question to you is: how realistic is this? Or are these just political statements aimed at domestic use, party? What is the position of the Bulgarian government on the creation of something like mini Schengen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u175	For an answer Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u176	Mr. Petrov, violently against it! Mini Schengen is simply not Schengen. What we call "Shengen" is actually a policy built on three main pillars. Bulgaria is not fully involved in all security policies of the Schengen area, the so-called "Prime" which is the last building element, allows countries that are part of Schengen if a crime is identified in one country the persecution of this crime can be committed by its authorities in another country. This is really a common ground. Bulgaria, however, cannot do this. This is neither in the interest of European security nor in the interest of Bulgarian security. Moreover, I think that there should not just be mini Schengen, but there should be a very strong, very intense common policy. How could this happen? By simply accepting the fact that we have external borders of the European Union and there we are concentrating our common European efforts. In fact, time is really very decisive. We will either make effective border control through Schengen and within the European Union to protect security, given the threats of terrorism, or we will simply return to national borders. The second would lead to many economic and social losses and would in general be a completely different European Union. As there will be much talk in the coming months about the change of treaties, the Lisbon Treaty on the occasion of Britain's demands, including today the Prime Minister of Great Britain, is actually making a round of capitals so that he can explain his country's position. Bulgaria has so recognised its security that it should be, we are counting on it to be part of Schengen. The sooner this is understood and we manage to convince the countries that we are not a problem, but a solution to the problem, the more relaxed I will feel that we have made 100% efforts so that we can have security in Bulgaria. And whether there is 100% security anywhere in the world, that is now a second question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u177	Thank you. A line, Mr. Petrov? You won't use it. Mrs. Tasheva will ask the second question on behalf of the Party group Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u178	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Vice Prime Ministers! Tomorrow will be a meeting of the Council of the European Union, as far as I know, in the format of internal ministers, which will decide on how many hundred thousand migrants from Turkey to be scattered across the Member States of the European Union. We learn from yesterday's media that, according to Berlin, this will be a coalition of willing people. Viktor Orban warned that it was concluded Sunday with Ahmet Davutoglu, a secret agreement between Germany and Turkey, the European Union to take over, and I quote: You know that quotas are already given to a court of Slovakia. My question is: what position will the Bulgarian government stand for? First of all, do you have a position at all? And second of all, what is it? For how many hundred thousand Muslim migrants have you agreed and where do you draw a mandate for these decisions, for the policy of Islamisation of Bulgaria, when it was not even included in your election programme in the last elections?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u179	For an answer Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u180	Mrs. Tasheva, I happen to know that this question was asked by journalists to Jean-Claude Juncker, precisely this statement that you are quoting to Prime Minister Orban. Jean-Code Juncker's answer was nonsense. I don't want to translate it into Bulgarian, but if I force myself, I think the answer will be translated into nonsense or nonsense. During the meeting on Sunday I will tell you what has been decided, because I have to deal with facts. An agreement was then reached on the following topics: First, an agreement between the European Union and Turkey to be about the readmission of the so-called "admission" and to begin to be fully implemented since June 2016. This is extremely in the interests of Bulgaria. Secondly, the European Union will provide immediately and without interruption humanitarian aid to Turkey, moreover, the European Union will significantly increase its overall financial support for the country. Third, a commitment to provide an initial amount of 3 billion. Euros. Fourth, the Joint Action Plan agreed on a referendum on 15 October 2015 to activate cooperation in support of Syrians benefiting from temporary protection and migration management in order to address the crisis caused by the situation in Syria. The two countries will strengthen their active cooperation with regard to migrants who do not need international protection by preventing travel to Turkey and the European Union, ensuring the implementation of the established bilateral readmission provisions and returning migrants who do not need international protection in time to their countries of origin. Fifth, the accession process will be activated. An intergovernmental conference was confirmed on 14 December 2015 to open negotiating chapter 17 "Economic and monetary policy." Sixth, the fight against terrorism remains a priority. Seventh, holding regular summits twice a year in an appropriate format. They will provide a platform for assessing the development of relations between Turkey and the European Union and for discussing international issues. Eighth, we expect real results and progress from Turkey on their commitments. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u181	The line, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u182	Mrs. Kuneva, you should know that parliamentary control is more than just reading the official communiqués we can read ourselves from the European Union website. This is not what you are asked to do when you stand before the people's representation. I don't know what you think of it as nonsense, but the President of the Council of the European Union, Donald Tusk, said, I can provide you with a printout that for 2015, which has not yet ended, from Turkey through Bulgaria and Greece, a million and a half migrants, Muslims, have invaded Europe. And that's Nonsense?! Why has it not been discussed, analyzed by the Bulgarian government? A documentary by Deutsche Welle, emblematicly entitled "Bulgarian Channels," claims and shows that every day across the western border of Bulgaria illegally passes between 200 and 500 Mohammedans, with unclear identity. And that's Nonsense?! My question was: on Friday at the Council of the European Union meeting, what position will you stand for? How many of them will you agree to accept and what is the upper limit beyond which you will refuse, first and second, where do you draw a mandate for this import of Muslim population in Bulgaria? That was my question. I'm not asking you what you think of Victor Orbán. Your opinion is not interesting to us. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u183	I look forward to Mrs. Kuneva's reply with interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u184	Mrs. Tasheva, lady MP, calmly, I am very interested in your question, only try to ask it specifically. You're asking me four things at once. You yourself quote Mr Orban, I told you what the President of the European Commission said to him. You're asking me about quotas, settlement, which is one question, and then you're talking about a refugee stream that's passed, but hasn't stayed in the country. No offense, but focus on one question. I can answer a lot of your questions, but just ask one, so it's clear where we're going. [[Reply from the People's Representative Magdalena Tasheva.]] In this meeting, which you mean, quotas are not considered. [[Reply from the People's Representative Magdalena Tasheva.]] No quotas are considered, Mrs. Tasheva. Otherwise, I understand very well my role here to answer general questions about politics, but not gossip, even if they are made public in the media. Excuse me, but in such a conversation, out of respect for you, I cannot participate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u185	From the ABB group, second question? There won't be. Mr. Velizar Enchev will ask Mrs. Kuneva a second question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u186	Madam Chairman, Mrs. Kuneva, Mr. Donchev, honourable colleagues! Mrs. Kuneva, my question is on Schengen. I congratulate your efforts to work in this direction, but I am very afraid that your efforts, sadly ours in general, may prove to be pouring water into a bucket with no bottom, because, I quote: Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Austria, Germany and Denmark have returned border controls, walls and fences are being built. Victor Orbán even sent the army and closed hermetically hermetically her boundaries. At this stage it can be safely said that the de facto system of Dublin is dead, it does not function after the actions, or rather the inaction of Greece. The question is, is Schengen alive? I would therefore like to ask you because you have already responded to the colleague from the Bulgarian Democratic Centre for Mini-Shengen. It seems to me that mini-Shengen is not such a minimal danger as the Finance Minister of the Netherlands himself said that if Europe fails to deal with the problem at its borders, countries such as the Netherlands, Austria, Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg are preparing for such a mini-Shengen to protect their borders and, above all, as he said quite frankly, to maintain the social standard of their population. Again, my question is specific: are you not afraid that your noble efforts may end in an unfavorable way for us, and what measures do you take if, of course, there is such a reserve of measures?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u187	For an answer Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u188	Mr. Enchev, since I am dealing with European policies and this is in general the center of my efforts in politics, I feel that right now part of my job description is to worry because there is a reason. And this is on many occasions, I was worried about this because Europe was in an economic crisis, in a financial crisis. It turned out that it was easier to find common solutions, not easier, but in any case we were finally able to find common financial solutions and more unity in the area of the financial sphere than more unity in the area of security, part of which is Schengen. I believe that Europe is not really fast enough to find a solution. There are two ways to either restore national borders and each country to defend itself, or to do something common, which means actually deepen Schengen. There's no third time! The entire security system of Bulgaria is aimed at us being part of Schengen. Not like, for example, a UK that originally said it wouldn't enter Schengen. They have other relations with the European Union. That is why I think that we should work on the scenario of staying in the Schengen area as a very important policy. We have 10 votes in the European Council, we have 18 parliamentarians, we have the opportunity to influence European solutions, and I believe that here we have the support of many Schengen countries to stay and develop. It is a very good motivation for the development of Schengen if, at this very moment, Bulgaria and Romania become its members. This means that Schengen is attractive and that it can play its role. In the same way that Estonia became part of the euro area in the deepest financial crisis, but it was a very strong signal that this policy was here to stay, not that it was a one-time thing and a conjunctural one. Yes, Mr. Enchev, I'm worried about Schengen. There are stubborn politicians in Europe who believe that there is no point in making efforts to convince their public opinion that Bulgaria is a country that deserves to be in Schengen, as well as Romania, because we are also fulfilling our functions without, however, full access to the rights given by Schengen. This is not in the interest of Europe, as is not in the interest of Bulgaria. I hope that, together with the Bulgarian Parliament, we will not miss an occasion with whomever we talk, to say how important it is for Schengen to stay and how important it is for Bulgaria and Romania to be part of Schengen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u189	The line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u190	Thank you for your answer, Mrs. Kuneva. Now a very specific question, and it is up to date. A meeting of the European Union's foreign ministers is convened tomorrow. One of the points, perhaps the most important, is that it will be discussed imposing drastic measures against the Hellenic Republic, even possibly freezing its Schengen membership if it fails to deal with the refugee crisis, or rather it refuses to accept technical assistance from the European Union. On this occasion, I ask you... not whether you are worried because it is disturbing? The European Commission said last week that it would propose joint control over the borders of the European Union and for this purpose it would be established or a special border unit has already been established. Do you contact this border unit and what will be its functions at the external border of the European Union? I mean the Bulgarian-Turkish and Bulgarian-Greek?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u191	A hole, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u192	It's a development policy. No final decisions have been made yet. So far, in the European Commission, the commitment to compliance has been to see whether or not a directive has been transposed through the parliaments, namely whether or not there is legislation. From then on, it is their job to ensure that this legislation is respected that national authorities are set up to implement the legislation. I personally welcome the decision of the European Commission to be a guardian not only of the treaties but also of the actions required by European legislation. Not to have recorded it in our laws, but indeed to implement this legislation. In the same way is the issue of the implementation of Schengen rules. I think it would be bad for Greece to be suspended in some way by Schengen. This is not in the interest of Bulgaria. It's not a good starting point for a conversation. If Greece has to be helped one way or another, let us see how we can do it. You remember that just a few days ago France said it would not fight its budget deficit something that we in Bulgaria are doing because it needs to invest in security. Therefore, the budget deficit and sanctions against the budget deficit will not be welcome for France. You can see that each country is trying in its own way to respond. Not all countries can say they're in an ideal situation. In France there is not one thing, in Greece there is another. This policy of fingering and excluding the parties will, in my opinion, lead nowhere. Greece is our neighbor. We must do everything we can to ensure that Schengen legislation is implemented properly in Greece, or with more control measures by the European Union, or through joint teams. I think we'll benefit from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva, for participating in the current blitz control. No further questions. Colleagues, we've got a few minutes. Back to: FIRST READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADMISSION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE CODEX. On behalf of the importer, come in, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u194	Madam President, honourable Members! By proposals of your attention a bill for amendment and supplement of the Administrative Procedure Code is proposed a change of art. 58 of the Administrative Procedure Code for replacing silent refusal with silent consent. The proposal is as an effective measure to protect citizens' rights against the administration in the event of an administrative act not being issued within the legal period. Although the Administrative Procedure Code currently contains provisions for the formation of enforcement proceedings against an administrative body where it has not been pronounced within the period prescribed by the Law on a request, these provisions are not sufficient guarantee for the protection of citizens' rights. Even in cases where the administrative authority fails to comply with the call for voluntary execution, the only option is at the moment to impose a fine which the authority may pay and again fail to fulfil its obligation. It is deeply wrong and unfair, in our view, in the current situation that non-excribing within the administration is considered a silent refusal as a general rule, and that the cases and conditions for applying silent consent to be governed by special laws. The proposed bill provides for amendment and addition of art. 8 of the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business, creating a new para. 3 which provides that, if a licence is not granted within the period laid down by the Law, it will be assumed that there is a silent consent by the Administrative Authority. This proposal corresponds fully to the main objective of the Bill, namely to limit inactivity in the work of the administration by creating predictability and control, as well as to facilitate citizens and businesses in their participation in procedures for issuing administrative acts. With the change of para. 1 in art. 28 of the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of the business is given the possibility to apply silent consent also when issuing permission and certificate for one-off transactions or actions, but with amendment of para. 2 It is proposed that the silent consent be deemed to exist also in the absence of explicit refusal of the administrative authority to issue the authorisation or certificate within the time limit for the decision on the request. We believe that the proposed amendments will be an effective and effective means of protecting citizens against the administration in the event of failure to administer an administrative act within the period prescribed by the Law. At the same time, the amendments proposed by us in the Administrative Procedure Code will be a powerful incentive in the fight against corruption in Bulgaria, as widespread in Bulgarian society is the opinion that the administration is currently using silent refusal to blackmail citizens and companies in issuing certain permits. On the other hand, the current legal framework is further burdened by the judicial system, as there are in practice many appeals to a silent refusal. This leads annually to large costs of private individuals and companies and to a waste of time and congestion of administrative courts. To conclude, honourable Members, I wanted to stress that when discussing proposals from the Patriotic Front Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Administrative Procedure Code, he received the full support of industry organisations and employers' organizations, representatives of the trade union and civil associations. The representatives of the business in Bulgaria predicted that his adoption would revolutionize administrative reform. We expect the support of the parliamentary groups for the first reading of the Bill, hoping that more constructive proposals will come in between the two readings, which will further improve the Law so that it can effectively fulfill its purpose. The bill also has a positive opinion from the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-03.u195	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. The debate is open. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to take a stand? Time's almost up. Here we will break the debate and continue in the next plenary session so that in the remaining minute and a half I can make you the announcement of parliamentary control. Parliamentary control on 4 December 2015, 11.00 The first will answer the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva to a question by the National Representative Miho Mihov and Ivan Ivanov. The second will answer the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to three questions from the MPs Mikov, Dora Yankova and Manol Genov, Rumen Gechev in the common issue with Mrs. Yankova and Manol Genov and Georgi Svilenski. Third will answer the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova. The fourth is Economy Minister Bozidar Lukarski, who will answer two questions from the MPs Metodi Andreev and Georgi Bojinov. Fifth is Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova, who will answer two questions from the MPs Vassil Antonov and Petar Kadiev. 6. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov will answer four questions from the MPs Volen Siderov "two questions; Valeri Zablyanov and Dimitar Dubov "two questions, with the agreement to be after 12.30. 7. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Mrs. Desislava Taneva will answer seven questions from the MPs Mariana Boyadjieva and Svetla Bachvarova in general; Svetla Bachvarova in two separate cases; Georgi Kovachev; Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov in general; Petar Kadiev in Dora Yankova. 8 The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer eleven questions from the MPs Dora Yankova On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure adjourned replies by seven days have requested: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the MP Mihail Mikov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova of four questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov; Vassil Antonov; Mariana Boyadjieva; Mihail Mikov and Filip Popov on a common question, and two questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Bojinov and Petar Slavov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - three questions from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva and to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov; - seven questions and two questions from the MP Slavi Binev to the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski; to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski; to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov and to the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. Due to illness the Minister of Culture Vecdi Rashidov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. In the absence of the party in the parliamentary control meeting, there will be no participation: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova; - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session with a starting time of 9:00 p.m. We begin with a second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
