ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u1	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, please register! There's a quorum, I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] I suggest to your attention the project for a weekly program for the weather of 25 March 2015: "1." Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Continued his second vote from the previous plenary week. 2. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importers suppose Danail Kirilov and a group of Members of the National Assembly supposed to be the first draft bill, and the second one - Danail Kirilov and a group of Members of the National Assembly - also a follow-up from last week. 3. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Civil Procedure Code. Importers of the Council of Ministers, second draft with importer Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, third draft Law Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, fourth draft Law Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. 4. First vote on a bill to repeal the Law on Private Judicial Contractors. Importers s Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, and Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Judicial Contractors are Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications. Importers suppose Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. This is intended to be point one for Thursday 26 March 2015. 6. Election of the President of the Court of Auditors on Thursday. The procedure of the election is by rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 5 March 2015. 7. Annual Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs 2015 Importer "Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds." 8. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Access to Space Data. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 9. Draft Law on the ratification of Amendment 3 to the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. 10. A bill ratifying the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part. 11. Report on the implementation of the privatization and post-privatization control process during the period 1 January 30 June 2014. Importer "Privatization and post-privatization control." 12. Annual report on the Commission's activity to prevent and establish a conflict of interest for 2014. Importer "The Commission on the prevention and establishment of a conflict of interest." Annual report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2013. Importer "The Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences." The last point is parliamentary control under art. art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 171 MPs: 155 against 6, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of Mr. Chavdar Georgiev's Rules of Procedure "Member of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria," proposes that a bill for interpretation of art should be included as a point in the weekly program. 22b of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, submitted on 23 January 2015 by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. Mr. Georgiev, you're welcome to defend your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am proposing inclusion as a point in the forthcoming programme of adoption of a Bill for the interpretation of the repealed art. 22b of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. Article 22b was repealed by the right-wing majority, ignoring its extremely important social and regulatory importance. This created prerequisites for the failure to comply with the Law and for limiting the rights of hundreds of thousands working on a minimum wage. The tax campaign is now under way and it is extremely important that this interpretive law be passed so that there is an uncontroversial and uniform application of the Law and that there is no limitation of the rights of people with minimal labour income. It's about £400. annual for 2014, which the state must return to these people, or BGN 1,12 a day. A small amount for many, but for those with the lowest income these levs and twelve pennies represent the cost of daily bread needed for their families. That is why we from BSP left Bulgaria propose the adoption of a short interpretation law, which will also facilitate the tax authorities in applying the Law on personal income taxes for 2014. Thus we will give a clear sign to the public that the state has not forgotten citizens with minimal incomes and does not seek only to take from them, and may also give to those who need tax assistance. This will be an expression of the real manifestation of the social and rule of law, of social justice and solidarity, which so much is lacking in our society today. I call on all MPs to support this proposal for an interpretation law because it is about the bread and survival of our constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u3	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. We vote. They voted 171 MPs: 79, against 53, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I am proposing a re-voting proposal and once again I stress the understanding, now the tax campaign is under way and this Law is extremely necessary in order to be able to implement the law on personal income taxes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u5	Colleagues, re-vote. Vote 179 MPs: 93, against 63, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! Thanks for that support. I propose that the bill be the first item of the meeting on Friday.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u7	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal that the item included by our deliberate decision in the weekly programme be the first item of the meeting on Friday. Vote 184 MPs: 88, against 78, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, when reporting the programme, I have announced a point number, and I have read the contents of a next point, so in order to be correct, from the tenth point back I will repeat as you have been given the programme project: 10. A bill ratifying the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 11. Report on the implementation of the privatization and post-privatization control process during the period 1 January 30 June 2014. Importer "Privatization and post-privatization control." 12. Annual Activity Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2014. Importer "The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data." 13. Annual report on the Commission's activity on preventing and establishing a conflict of interest for 2014. Importer "The Commission on the prevention and establishment of a conflict of interest." 14. Annual report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2013. Importer "The Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences." Point 15 will become the newly adopted decision for inclusion in our programme. 22b, new. Importers "Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. 16. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, at 11.00 p.m. Please vote. Vote 156 MPs: 150, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Reports of bills and draft decisions for the period from 18 to 24 March 2015: It's a bill of publicity for lobbying. Importer Georgi Kovachev and group of MPs. Leader of the Committee on Legal Affairs. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance; the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government; the Committee on Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics. Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Draft decision to terminate the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Defence Cooperation. Importer "supplier" Volen Siderov and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Defence Committee, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications. Importers suppose Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. Leading the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence resources and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. A bill to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importers "Paul Hristov," Plamen Manushev and Tsvetomir Mihov. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Property. Importers Ivan Stankov, Kiril Tsochev, Miho Mihov and Lachezar Nikiforov. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government; the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order; the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill to supplement the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. Draft Decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Importers Valentin Nikolov Ivanov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Decision repealing Decision concerning the suspension of exports and dispatches of goods falling within codes 440110, 440320, 440391, 440392 and 440399 under Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1101/2014 of 16 October 2014 amending Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff (OJ L 312/1 of 31 October 2014) of 4 March 2015 Exporters sifteen Kenov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Project for a decision to set up a Temporary Committee of inquiry to check the state of hospitals with the greatest responsibilities. Importers suppose Dimitar Shishkov and a group of MPs. It will be allocated to the Committee on Health. Bill on the European Protection Order. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Decision on the short-stay visa waiver (up to 90 days) in the Republic of Bulgaria for the citizens of the Russian Federation. Importers scuse Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. One message. The National Assembly has received a Report on the extent of implementation of the established policies and programmes of the Ministry of Health for 2014, a Report on the implementation of the policies and budgetary programmes for 2014 and a summary thereof of the divided Ministry of Economy and Energy. The reports are made available to the Budget and Finance Committee, to the relevant committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to point one of our program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LEGISLATION LEGISLATION AND ADVISION OF THE DESCRIMINATION PROTECTION LAW In the plenary session of 19 March 2015 at the second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination, we postponed voting on the name of the law, as whether it will be a law only for amendment or an addition depends on whether it will remain with only one paragraph adopted................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Paragraph 2 has been reported. The debate on it is closed. A vote has been taken and we are in a re-voting procedure under § 2. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Demographic and Social Policy Mr. Kalfin wants to speak with regard to this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will allow myself to briefly try to explain to you the logic of a change in the law which does not substantially alter the rights or obligations of someone, but rather to give clarity, as there is obviously a different interpretation under the legislation in force. It is about the Law on Protection against Discrimination, where in art. 4, para. 1 says: "Any direct or indirect discrimination based on sex, race, nationality, ethnicity, human genome, nationality, origin, religion or faith, education, belief, political affiliation, personal or social status, disability, age, sexual orientation, marital status, property status or any other sign established in a law or in an international treaty to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a party is prohibited. Where does the question come from? The issue of a different interpretation relates to whether the prohibition of discrimination by gender also includes a prohibition on discrimination in the event of gender change. I would like to say immediately that with this clarification that we are proposing, there is no changing the order in any way to change gender and this is not a topic that we are discussing. In Bulgaria, this is governed by a separate law. In principle, the Law on Civil Registration states that the law allows for a change in the data on the civil status of persons in composed civil status acts, expressly stating that a change in gender can only be made in judicial order. 76, para. 4 of the Civil Registration Act. There's an ongoing procedure. The point is that in this ongoing procedure, without changing it, what we should clarify in the law is that in such a change, the person is not subject to discrimination. Why do we have to submit this bill? He is quite suffering because he has appeared several times and has been imported into a previous parliament. There is a correspondence with the European Commission starting from 2012, which, under the so-called pilot procedure, asks whether Bulgaria has settled the issue with a lack of discrimination in an already changed sex. I'm saying again, we're not treating the procedure for this thing here. Bulgaria replied in 2012 that, according to our interpretation, the law, after saying that there is no discrimination by gender, covers this issue, after which the Commission sent a new letter in 2013, which also refers to a decision of the European Court of Justice, which says that the principle of equal treatment between men and women cannot be limited to discrimination based on the fact that a person is of one or the other sex. In view of its purpose and the nature of the rights, it shall also apply to discrimination against a person's sex change. This is a decision of the European Court of Justice of 2006, which entered into the directive to be applied, so the Commission is telling us: In 2013, Mr Oresharski's government prepared a bill and told the European Commission: "Yes, we will change this Law." He brought it into parliament by making a commitment by the end of 2013 to be accepted. At the end of 2013, it was not accepted, leading to new correspondence in 2014. I will save it. On 22 August 2014, the Commission once again raised the question, and in February this year, in a letter sent to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, it said that it expects the new deadline to be fulfilled by 31 March 2015 for a change of law, otherwise a procedure for non-compliance with European law will begin. All these papers are here in front of me. Once again, it is about interpretation and clarification of interpretation, not new procedures, different rights or any other substantial changes in the law. As far as this issue is extremely sensitive, it is related to human rights for both the institutions in Bulgaria and in the European Union, and for the political families in the European Union, I ask you to support this change, which, once again I say, will clarify a text that exists in the Law without creating new rights or new procedures from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. Colleagues, I am announcing a re-voting of § 2 of the Additional Provisions. I remind you of what he says: Point 17. The recognition under art. 4, para. 1 includes cases of gender change. It's a rethink mode. They voted 139 MPs: 93, against 23, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 2 has been accepted. [[Applause on the left.]] I ask the President of the Commission, Mr. Velchev, to report the name.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! Since § 2 was voted by abstention, the Commission had proposed another text for a law, but now the title remains the same for amendment and supplement to the Law on Protection against Discrimination. This will read and we must vote on the title of the Law. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u11	The bill comes under the name of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination. Since the Commission had not supported § 2, it proposed that the report should name the law only for amending the Law on Protection against Discrimination. The fact is that § 2. has already been voted on. The President of the Commission proposes to be an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u12	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u13	I'm putting it to the vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u14	Aren't there gonna be any speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u15	You want a statement? Cancel the vote. Come in for a statement, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u16	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Yes, there should also be speeches about the title. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! On Friday, we would have made another blunder that would have compromised the European path of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u17	That's not by the title.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u18	I would insist and then the title is in the same way as it was imported by the importer, because it is an imperative provision. Taking into account the criminal procedure that Bulgaria would have walked if this bill had not been adopted in this form, this would not have had a good effect on the image of both the government which imported the bill and the Republic of Bulgaria. However, it is disturbing to interpret this topic by the two parties, who have different positions last year and this year, depending on who is in power, are voted for or against these topics. Last year in the situation of GERB was BSP and those who are calling now should remind them that because of only nine MPs from BSP was not adopted the bill and therefore we are walking another procedure. I would also like to say something else, namely the attitude towards sexual differences in Bulgaria. Both in Europe and in Bulgaria this problem obviously needs to be solved with a new look, the interpretation of this topic must come out of the area of prejudice. We must find that the world is moving forward in terms of the interpretation of these topics.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u19	Mr. Kardzhaliev, you're getting off the subject of the title. This is a topic in the Bulgarian legislation which has recognised...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u20	And in spite of the will of the people's representative...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u21	...the gender equality.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u22	I'm graduating, Madam President. The will of the Bulgarian MP is whether he will follow this world or remain at the level of his preconceptions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u23	I'm voting...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u24	Speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u25	Replies before that to Mr. Kardzhaliev's statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u26	I won't, I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u27	Now I understand there are no lines. You have the floor, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, and on this vote that has just passed and on this vote, which is yet to come, we will once again see how the group of the DPS supports the GERB group at difficult times. That should be clear, too. That's gotta be clear! As you should also be aware of what we are voting on right now, honourable Members. What are we voting on right now? Once again here, gender change, third gender. Do you realize what this is about? We're discussing here that there are people who decide to change genders!?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u29	This is not the subject of the entire bill, Mr. Chukolov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u30	That's right, that's the title. Yes, and I'm speaking!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u31	It's not content, you're out of the context of the two paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u32	Madam President, please don't interrupt me! Please follow the rules! Dear colleagues, for this vote you will make, just like that, I see you, you have children, and some of you have grandchildren, and could you explain this to them in an adequate way? Would you explain it to them so they can understand it? Do you actually want them to think about it? Here you say about the European path, Europe would impose sanctions on us. What kind of sanctions will he impose on us? Is it going to bomb Europe? If we don't do it, what happens? Tell me, what if we do not harmonise once again the European requirement? Let's not do this and see what happens. They won't bomb us, believe me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u33	That's true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u34	All these things, which they call European values, do not wonder that your constituents call them European values. And we at Ataka are against it and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u35	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the name of the bill, as it is by importer, namely the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against Discrimination. Vote 136 MPs: 107 against 16, abstention 13. The proposal is adopted, and with this, at second reading, the bill in question. [[Part of the MPs of the Patriotic Front are leaving the Chamber.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The movement for rights and freedoms won the partial elections for mayor in Sarnitsa municipality. [[Applause from SG to DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u37	They're not partial, they're basic.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u38	This is only a surprise to the leaders of those political forces who saw the DPS in the crooked mirror of their political bias and helplessness at the same time. GERB and the Reformation bloc found themselves in their parallel world, where politics is reduced to an arithmetical sum with which they hope to win elections and cut DPS out of local power. The great lesson of the Deer, which they will hardly learn, is for them. First of all, politics is not arithmetic. One plus one in politics, not only is it not two, but risks being less than one. In other words, I would like to say that Boyko Borisov would have won more if he had taken a run alone. This trailer is for you, Mr. Tsvetanov! Secondly, politics is sincerity, not an elementary manipulation of an open municipal agricultural service and at the last moment diverted from another ambulance municipality. Thirdly, politics is not oppression of civil servants, mainly foreskins and their conversion by employees of the Bulgarian state into party abusers who cut off the electricity of the wrong voters. The DPS in these elections appeared only with the magic of its ideas, because the mayors of all three settlements are from GERB. The GERB and the Reformation bloc are also the entire state power, turned into a repressive machine. Against all of this, apart from his ideas, the DPS relied on something else, and relied on the dignity of the blackmailed but proud Rhodopean. I took the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms to make a bow to the stoicism and dignity of all the voters of the municipality of Sarnitsa, who defeated fear and voted according to their free will, conscience and reason. From this point of view, the victory of Neby Bozov, the victory of DPS is the victory of democracy over repression, the victory of free will over aggression. We hope that Sarnitsa will also start the process of healing the Bulgarian policy in order to return it to the basic value system of Euro-Atlanticism. For Nebi Bozov and the DPS, the great victory of the deer is primarily a responsibility. That is why we appeal to all residents of Sarnitsa, Copper meadows, Pobbit stone, village and Gorelska neighborhoods, including those who voted for our political opponents, to join efforts to turn Sarnitsa from formally established into a European modern municipality. Including the address of this call are candidates for mayors of our opponents Mustafa Alikanov, Kemal Kinev and Kemal Bayraktarov. We appeal, six months before the local elections, that the government find the strength not to resort to the temptation to harness the state pressure machine on Bulgarian citizens. I recall that it was the responsible government decision of the DPS after the European elections that made it possible for you to be in power today to use it against us so terribly brutally. We can forgive all sorts of things, including manipulations, but, Mr. Tsvetanov, the last day you uttered a slander that we cannot forgive because it affects our integrity. You accused by a conscious lie the DPS of calling Mustafa another believer. Are you suggesting that Mustafa will call Mustafa another believer? [[Applause from DPS.]] I am consciously resorting to the synonym because the word you used is so ugly that neither I nor any other depessar would say it as a quote. You still have a chance to offer an apology. Apologize also for Mustafa Alikanov, who greeted after the vote winner Neby Bozov. So Sarnitsa gave another lesson in political culture. Otherwise you will have to prove your slanderous statement to the Bulgarian court. [[Noise and lines.]] If necessary, also before the European Court of Justice. I promise it on behalf of the hundreds of thousands of DPS voters who are affected by this slander. Now you have the chance to align your leader's words to a new quality of political dialogue. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u39	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Mr. Tsvetanov, personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I wasn't going to make a statement, but I was provoked by these allegations that were made here by this tribune. However, let us know that there is plenty of time until the local elections and let us not be the ones to provoke the artificial tension that we would create for people who live in mixed regions. I treat all Bulgarian citizens with great respect and respect. We may be the only national responsible party that has its representatives in all the local authorities in the country and, of course, in both executive and legislative. What I can clearly say is that from yesterday's conversation in this position, which was expressed by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I confirm what I have said because this has been transmitted to me by our structures in Sarnitsa municipality. And I will even be more precise so that we do not fall back into any interpretations of the words that have been said: on the last Friday, when there were election meetings of representatives from the Political Party GERB with the voters in Sarnitsa, and in particular in the Medden meadows after the party event of GERB had ended, there was a party event of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Then our representatives from the structures retreated to the Village and then they actually called from the Medden Plains and said what they had done as a campaign by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. And that's where those words are said. We all know that when there is a campaign, when there is a high degree of tension, I think that we, as responsible politicians and standing in front of the parliamentary stand, should talk precisely about reducing such tensions. I am convinced that we really need to talk constantly with our structures in order not to reach such a high degree of tension in the upcoming local elections, which are approaching in just a few months. That's what I wanted to say, and I wouldn't want to go into any kind of conflict with anyone. Therefore, I simply beg you: let us be above all these petty things that someone wants to develop as a topic in the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Applause from GERB.]] I assure you that all residents are from Sarnitsa, whether they are from any other Bulgarian municipality, people want to be able to talk normally, to be able to conduct a normal election campaign. I believe that Sarnitsa did not have a normal election campaign, and I am convinced that each of us should learn a lesson and actually give a tone of conduct in the upcoming campaign. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. On behalf of the group Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Once again, we have seen an extremely arrogant and insolent statement on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] In the face of the new speaker, we see the new addition of irresponsible and arrogant politicians, such as are generated per kilogram in the saras of Dogan. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] You can't teach us here in Bulgarian, teach us lessons in Europeanism and democracy. It's just crossing a line. Are you the one who's going to talk about democracy?! Are you going to talk about economic oppression?! You?! Is there a municipality ruled by you that does not moan from the economic repression of your mayors and your municipality? [[(Noise and calls from DPS: Prove!) Prove it! Enough of this nonsense! Several MPs from the SG of the DPS come out of the hall.)]] Are you going to talk about progress and European values? May I ask you: why, after the election day was over during the fireworks, was the hodja from the minaret? Is there a division in Sarnica between religion and politics? Is there a Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria for you, or are you led by another Constitution?! [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]] And what was he swaying from the minaret?! Maybe congratulations in incomprehensible language? [[Relations and calls from DPS.]] I want to tell you in conclusion: learn about education, a culture that you obviously lack. [[Noise and lines from DPS. Part of the MP's MPs of the DPS come out of the parliamentary hall.]] In conclusion, I will not waste the time of the other colleagues, I would like to tell you that it is clear to all of us here that it is an administratively meaningless procedure to create a new municipality, which I am sure will very soon be liquidated, as well as a number of other municipalities which absolutely meaninglessly exist and additionally burden state and municipal budgets. At least it is clear to us that the creation of this municipality was absolutely self-sustaining and was a strategic event of the DPS. [[Noise in the room.]] And finally, the magic of ideas. What kind of magic? What ideas are you talking about? Are you the ones who win the election by buying? You bought these elections with the magic of your armegans and the other money you paid your voters with, but are those your armagans? [[Shows wall clock.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u43	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u44	I'm done. Here's the watch you used to buy your constituents with. [[high wall clock rising.]] Look how the clock is going. Your watch is going backwards. Look at the second guy! [[(Radio, laughter from GERB. (Applause)]] Aliosmane, look where the clock is going. [[Shows Vice-President Aliosman Imamov's watch.]] So here's an analogy! Here, this watch, these watches you give away, they're going backwards. Since you won the elections, Sarnitza time has been going backwards! [[Applause from GERB, noise and speech, MPs from DPS come out of the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u45	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Mr. Imamov, a personal explanation. [[Strong noise, applause from GERB, lines and calls from DPS.]] Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman! Valerie, you have a great desire to challenge me. I don't know what the reason is, but one person said that the priest of a religion you, obviously, is very far from European values. Very, very far away. It's like me saying that priest in church you! And none of my colleagues are gonna say that. Or the priest in the synagogue, you. You're sobbing because you're not part of civilization. [[Loud noise, lines, calls, applause from DPS.]] You're hiking! And don't underestimate the poachers. They can give you a lot of lessons. It's enough for you to teach them if you're literate enough. [[The only applause from the DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u47	Thank you, Mr. Imamov. Any other statements on behalf of a group? I won't. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAWPROECTS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CALLED PROCEEDING CODEX. Importers: Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs. The reports of the committees to which the bill was allocated were read at the previous plenary sitting. Now a statement from an importer. I won't. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate and putting it to the first vote... [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Binev. [[National Representative Maya Manolova replicated the chairman from the place.]] I've been asking for a minute. Anybody have a word? [[Replications of the National Representative Maya Manolova.]] They were read at the last meeting. I reported it. You can't keep track of what's going on in this room, Mrs. Manolova. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you are, Mr. Binev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u48	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! I believe that although delayed, these changes are essential. In this place, I wish to reiterate the need for additional reforms. In recent years, we have witnessed relapses over and over and over again committing crimes. At the moment, they leave prison early and continue to commit crimes. Examples I can give for Veliko Tarnovo, Haskovo and many others. This state of law is intolerable to society and to me personally, and I think that all people who want to have a law in our country are asking for changes in this direction. I would also like to ask: when will steps be adopted for adequate punishments for crimes such as modern terrorism, online banking fraud, excise crimes, crime against cultural values? There is a huge problem with what is called theft of companies. Business is already at the bottom, and now you even have to fight with criminals who do not without the help of some judges assign companies. I can give you a few examples. I demand severe penalties for members of the judiciary and the judiciary in the event of violations of the law. I expect a thorough investigation and in proving guilt the most serious punishments for the judge soon removed from the justice system. It's high time we started somewhere with corruption.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u49	Well, that's out of the two bills we're discussing. We're on the PPC!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u50	We need to think about adopting a new Penal Code and debate on the action of the new PPC, as the European Commission stressed. I hope we do not wait this time again for sanctions or warnings from the European Commission before taking measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u51	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? Mr. Atanasov, after him Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will support at first reading, of course, this Bill, because it is necessary, but I would like to draw attention to the honourable Members and declare from the parliamentary platform that I will make proposals between first and second readings on this Bill, because in addition to the Code of Criminal Procedure, amendments are proposed to the Special Intelligence Act. It is proposed that permissions to apply special intelligence means to alerts for magistrates be given by the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, which may be correct, but note, it is also proposed that the only authority that can request the application of special intelligence means in respect of magistrates be the Chief Prosecutor. I would like to point out to you that under the Law, the applicant of a special intelligence tool is the authority which then receives the results of its exploitation. If these texts are adopted at second reading, this means that the Prosecutor General must read records of conversations held between magistrates all day long. And that's none of his business. Apart from this, the circle of authorities that could conduct research and research is narrowed in this way for alerts against magistrates, that is, it focuses all this activity at only one point and that is the Prosecutor General. This will not lead to good results, I am convinced of this, although the arguments that are being presented, namely the narrowing down of the circle of people who are concerned with these signals, has given the opportunity, that is, hindering the leak of information, is not such a solid argument to limit all those institutions and services that could be developments in terms of signals of corruption by magistrates. I wanted to pay attention to this detail of the proposed changes. I think we'll have a debate on this at the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u53	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Any lines to his statement? There aren't any. Mrs. Manolova has the floor to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u54	Honourable Members, Madam President! Both I, and my parliamentary group, will support both the submitted laws.. the first to be drawn up by judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation in order to relieve the Supreme Court of cases which can be dealt with and resolved without damaging the principles of the criminal trial and the appeals courts. This bill was also introduced into the previous National Assembly. It was supported by us, but due to lack of time, desire and political will, it did not ultimately become a fact, so it will be supported by our parliamentary group. With regard to the second bill, I am among its importers, but I must emphasise that it is not the result of the labour, efforts and legislative activity of MPs from any parliamentary group. It is made by experts and prosecutors under the leadership of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office and the Prosecutor General's Office and solves problems that have really been affected by both the criminal process and the Bulgarian society. In a word, if this bill is to be explained, it creates mechanisms for those who are caught and sentenced in Bulgaria, however difficult it may be, to be taken away and to endure their punishment. Whether this is a reform, when an absolutely dysfunctional system becomes functional, can be argued because a country that condemns but does not collect and provides opportunities for convicted persons to endure punishment becomes an accessory to crimes that these same persons carry out subsequently. Here we can argue whether the transformation of a non-functioning system into a functioning system is reform, but also the Attorney General behaves far more modestly than the Justice Minister in his words and in his actions. I think this is the time to ask the very speaking justice minister, who promises reforms from morning to night, where are his bills? He has not been a protester for a long time and it is not enough to utter spells and naked promises that there will be judicial reform in Bulgaria, but to put his intentions in specific bills, as the prosecution does. I say this because I have the moral right to ask the justice minister where the bills promised by his justice reform team are, and because I supported this reform, being opposition and understanding that judicial reform is not a party problem. She's a national problem. Here the speculation, the empty speaking does not honor the Minister of Justice or the deputy prime minister. They played too much in idle talk, bare promises and different PR shares. As far as the bill is concerned, another major focus of it is the measures of procedural coercion. Here I must also admit as a lawyer that the changes that are being proposed are more than necessary and necessary. I admit, even though I am a longtime lawyer, I have never dealt with criminal cases, but I was also amazed that, for example, the measure of procedural coercion Here, control of how measures of procedural coercion are implemented must be carried out by appropriate registration, which should be improved in the course of changes between first and second readings. We must recognise that the introduction of both the institutes of replacement documents and the electronic means of tracking are also necessary, but they need further precision. I will give a small touch, which refers to, for example, the so-called replacement documents. Today, the Legal Committee will review the latest recommendations of international organisations, including the OSCE on the application of electoral rules and on their compliance with European requirements. Once again one of the recommendations, one of the main criticisms concerns the extent to which there is an active selective right for all Bulgarian citizens, including those who are suffering punishment for imprisonment, including those who are placed under an obstacle. The introduction of replacement documents must be written in the relevant laws and regulations, for example, in such a way as to ensure the participation of persons having such documents, at least in the electoral process. In addition, the entry into their personal sphere through the so-called replacement documents and the provisions that will otherwise be supported by our parliamentary group must be subject to further detail and rewrite in other regulations that deal with this topic. It is certainly necessary to work on the texts between first and second readings as part of them, although I am an importer who has supported the prosecution's proposals, I say clearly from this platform that I will not support them in their specific discussion at second reading. For example, these are some of the texts relating to the application of special intelligence means. It cannot be supported, or at least by the arguments put forward, the possibility of using special intelligence means with the consent of a witness in a criminal proceedings. I personally and my parliamentary group will not support these texts. By the way, there are a lot of questions that have also been raised by the institutions that support these bills. Besides the prosecution, this is the Supreme Court of Cassation, this is the Supreme Judicial Council, these are other judicial bodies. There are a lot of criticisms that have also been made by the Supreme Council of Laws and which should certainly be discussed between first and second reading of the bill, taking into account, on the one hand, that it is both sides of criminal proceedings, which are normal to have different views and different interests that follow in the criminal process, but on the other hand, we must realise that this is not a bill that weighs the scales in one direction or another. It's a bill that won't serve the prosecution or the lawyers. It will be in the interest of the Bulgarian citizens at least in terms of the problems in which we have been convinced during the last period. If this bill were adopted and it were a fact, at least the terrible crime in Veliko Tarnovo would not have been committed and we would not have wondered about the defendants in cases of high public interest where they are located, whether they are in Bulgaria or abroad, so the changes are timely, they are necessary. They will be supported by our parliamentary group and will actively participate in their precision and improvement between the two readings of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u56	Madam President, honourable Members! I deliberately abstained from taking the floor on behalf of an importer on both of these bills, because in both of these bills the initiative originated, in one case, by the Attorney General, in the other case by the Supreme Court of Cassation, but I stress that in both cases, colleagues from the Legal Committee of different political forces expressed our support to them and brought them in with a common political will. It is true that this tribune should explicitly highlight the initiative of the Prosecutor General of the Republic on a criminal policy problem, which has been extremely painful lately. In other words, one of the problems of penal policy, which are, I would say, the subject of an acute analysis and of a strong public response, the effectiveness of the punishment and the effect of the forced measures. I thank all my colleagues for this support. The legal committee organised an accidental, ad hoc discussion of the proposed changes even before being seen in the Commission. In other words, we have heard the most negative arguments against the proposed measures. I stressed then, and I will now take this opportunity to say that this initiative should not be restricted, trampled or refused by technical or purely theoretical arguments. There is an acute need for these measures. An argument can always be found against it in some direction. However, if we have goodwill, we will find the right mechanisms to ensure their implementation and to secure the rights of all parties in the process. I invite you to support both bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u57	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the Patriot Front Group will support both legislations tabled. As the honourable Mr. Kirilov said, they are the product of political consensus. There are importers from all parliamentary groups represented in this Chamber of the National Assembly. With regard to the Bill submitted on 17 February 2015, at the initiative of the Supreme Court of Cassation, we believe that we will not so much and not only unload the Supreme Court of Cassation to carry out an interpretive activity, we will provide it with this opportunity, but we will also ensure greater speed of criminal proceedings in cases where we have resumed this proceedings in decisions of a regional court as a first instance. We believe that in this case this should be the leading motive and not so much that we will enable the Supreme Court of Cassation to engage in interpretation, which is an additional option. With regard to the greater scope of the bill submitted at the initiative of the Prosecutor General, also supported by all parliamentary groups, we welcome it and believe that strengthening measures for procedural coercion and improving their effectiveness is not only timely, but can even be taken into account as late in a certain sense, inasmuch as there have been publicly known cases of persons sentenced to a second instance in public, with an effective sentence not subsequently subject to cassation control, which avoids criminal justice, avoids the fair punishment imposed on them, and thus embodys the belief of citizens and of the public that the State can carry out an effective criminal policy and that a person who has committed a crime proven in the course of the criminal trial of two instances can avoid its next punishment. We believe that, on the one hand, the amendments to measures of procedural coercion in the course of the proceedings, as well as the measure of banning leaving the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria by issuing a replacement document, will help to limit and eliminate the possibility of persons who have committed a crime, where this has been proven and there is an effective conviction, to be able to avoid their next justice. Here we should point out that amendments to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents should be made in respect of the replacement document in order to have adequate legal framework. I will also refer to a number of other points affected by this PPC Amendment Bill. It is true that the focus is on measures of non-violence and procedural coercion, but I think it is no less important to note the other changes. There is an opportunity for investigators whose resources are currently not used adequately enough to be able to carry out investigations of serious intentional crimes against the person committed by minors to focus the criminal court of Specialized Criminal Court solely on criminal offences related to the activities of organised criminal groups and those under Chapter One of the special part of the Penal Code. The possibility of reform is in the pre-trial phase, subject to appropriate guarantees for the protection of citizens' rights, to require the above prosecutor to state his written instructions to the subordinate prosecutor, which is another guarantee that, without clear motives and justification, there will be no arbitrary instructions leading in this way to a possible unfounded act of the prosecutor concerned. It should be noted here the possibility of subsequent judicial review under the conditions of delay for detention and for correspondence, on which citizens and their defenders are extremely sensitive. All these changes, which we consider adequate in these two bills, will support them by retaining the right between first and second readings on certain provisions that we believe can be improved, to make our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u59	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u60	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, reading the amendments to the PPC made and tabled projects, once again I am aware that we have adopted an updated Strategy for Judicial Reform, which does not really speak and bring any positives for legal reform in Bulgaria, because essentially this Strategy was without time limit, without a clear budget in it, and last but not least without clear personnel provision. We in our parliamentary group will support these proposals for changes to the PPC, firstly, because they are really necessary. Next, the proposals made for changes in the measures for non-reflection are necessary. And last but not least, they are being done by the prosecution, and we are all aware that it is the body that has received Between first and second readings, we will make a proposal regarding the workload of investigators. For colleagues, I would like to say that there are currently about 420 investigators in Bulgaria. They deal with, imagine, one or two cases a maximum of three cases a year. This is an unnecessary spending of funds and not loading of absolute professional capacity. Our opinion is that the prosecution, district prosecutions, much easier and with much clearer texts in the Law, should issue investigations to investigators, not only to investigative police, as they are in DGBOP or the Directorate General of National Police. Once again, I declare my support for the draft and proposed bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u61	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, the main opinions that we have heard and discussed during the review of the bills amending the Code of Criminal Procedure in the Legal Commission have been presented. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Haytov for the words in which he recalled the positions which took the individual parliamentary represented political forces during the discussion of the Strategy which was voted on in the National Assembly. What we have heard today fully coincides, fully justifies and explains the position of the Attack Party in the vote on the Judicial Reform Strategy. It was indeed freed from content, not as quality, but as its defect and flaw. We now have the opportunity to return to the specifics of the problems that should be covered in the Strategy and to fill with content the intention to carry out the judicial reform, which, of course, is mostly expected, I point out in the first place the interests of Bulgarian citizens and therefore, especially expected by Bulgarian citizens. Let us leave the pressure from Europe, leave the reports, the assessments, which are a consequence anyway, not a reason to work conscientiously and in the interests of Bulgarian citizens, as we have sworn in accepting our duty as MPs. The unifying thing in the two bills is that important issues should be raised on which a discussion should be opened and that it will find the best solution to these issues. They will probably be supported in this House, and we will also support them. There is no need to run away from questioning so that they find their solution by legislative means. As regards the specific decisions proposed, of course, at second reading in this House, we will be able to give a clear assessment, opinion and support for one or another solution in the proposals for amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. In particular, in the first Draft Law, which is initiated primarily by judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation, there are arguments for and against the Court of Justice, and it can be considered as an attempt to land from non-essential and unnecessary work, the Supreme Courts of Cassation, working on the reopening of cases which have a characteristic which makes them a first instance of the district courts which did not pass a cassation check and as if not deservedly reached the highest levels of the judiciary. On the one hand, this may sound logical, on the other hand, however, such a decision would lead to an interruption in the connection with the living life of the Supreme Cassational Judges. It seems to me that this relationship is necessary to maintain their feeling and professional reflexes not to confirm unfair and unlawful solutions. In any case, they themselves propose to adopt such a legislative decision, which will most likely lead to a better balance in the load of judges, which is another pressing issue of the system, which are not currently loaded and, respectively, releasing the capacity of the Supreme Courts of Cassation for their main and serious work on issuing interpretation decisions. Whether, however, the released time, the released capacity will be used for whether to believe that this will happen, I really cannot give advice in this direction. In the Chamber, for example, we believed the Finance Minister that he would not touch a couple billion. If we are so trusting in words and made promises, why should we not believe that the Supreme Cassational Judges will use their time precisely for this really very useful and basic work in issuing interpretive decisions? Between first and second reading, we will be able to comment more deeply on possible guarantees for what we will try to assign to the Supreme Courts of Cassation with anticipation. At this stage, the Bill deserves support precisely to open the debate and allow it to gain a more perfect and more complete look. The next Bill, which was said good words, on the initiative mostly to the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, also deserves serious attention. It can, in principle, be supported even because of what is proposed in it as a solution to the big question of ensuring the possibility of bringing in serious prison sentences. The attempts of the persons convicted by the Bulgarian court to deviate and, unfortunately, in many of these attempts we notice the results and success of the efforts of these persons deserve a reaction and response so that this practice will be terminated in the future. In this sense, there are proposals in the Bill and this deserves to be terminated. However, there remain a number of issues that will need to be professionally, thoroughly, specifically commented and which concern the proposed defendantship of the cases on which persons with immunity are accused, note, it is a principle change in which an unacceptable mixing of the defendant, determined on the subject of the case and by personal belonging of the accused person, is made. Whether we follow the subject-matter of the case, in which the possibility of persons with immunity being directed to certain competent courts should be completely dropped, or whether we will comply with the current principle of personal conviction of persons with immunity, solely and only before the Sofia City Court, is a matter of our decision, but it must have explained exceptions, and not as here proposed a little arbitrary and inconclusive. We can argue on the texts that comment on the way special intelligence tools can be applied. With regard to a witness who has agreed that he will be subject to special intelligence means so that these results can also be used in relation to another, the subject of the possible provocator, who could agree to investigate a third non-advising object and be provoked to relevant statements and to appropriate behaviour, thus gathering evidence of his illegal activity. We have to be very careful here. Without the necessary guarantees that it will not be abused by this instrument, we cannot allow this text to be adopted according to the importers' design. In order not to waste your time, this is really about a prosecutor's project. I think it was a long time ago when the bills had to and could be divided into lawyers, prosecutors and any other by merit and by professional guilds. Here we must vote as citizens of the country, who do not know what the future will bring before them, to their loved ones and others, to whom we are responsible. It is said that regulations of relations in the criminal process must be laid down, which contain guarantees for all participants and all persons who have found themselves in the circle of those interested in the objective and true enforcement of the laws within the criminal process. This is what is leading in the decision of the MPs of Atakas, who will support these two laws at first reading with the applications we made for work, where they will be sought and believed, there will be a guarantee for the creation of conditions for protection of the rights of Bulgarian citizens, when they will be subject to the norms that we are discussing today and will probably adopt. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u63	Thank you, Mr. Notev. - What's the line? I won't. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I would like to ask the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 554-01-34, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 13 February 2015. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure No 554-01-35 submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 17 February 2015. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u64	Madam President, honourable Members, I would actually like to make two procedural proposals. The first concerns an extension of the deadline by one week for the submission of proposals under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, which we have submitted by date 13 February 2015. The second procedural proposal... [[Reference between the President and the National Representative Danail Kirilov.]] Guys, I'm sorry. I withdraw the first proposal with a view to technological and procedural issues and mainly with the need to draw up a joint bill. The second procedural proposal is to vote on admission to the House of Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs. Vergenia Micheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u65	He's absolutely certain of this proposal. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 98 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite Mrs. Micheva. Coming up next: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECTS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL PROCEEDING CODEX. On this point of our attention are four bills. Reports have been submitted by the Commission on legal issues to which they have been allocated. We're about to hear them. Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 402-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014. At its meeting on 21 January 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 402-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice Mr. Petko Petkov Deputy Minister, Mrs. Daniela Belchina, State Expert at the Department of Justice, Normality and Projects and Mrs. Elena Doycheva, State Expert at the Directorate of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs. The bill was presented by Mr. Petko Petkov. The proposed Draft provides for amendments relating to Regulation No 1215/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2012 on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters (recast), which apply from 10 January 2015. Amendments to the Civil Procedure Code are proposed to remove interim proceedings for the recognition and enforcement of judgments, to extend the scope of jurisdiction rules such as to apply to disputes with opponents from third countries, to increase the effectiveness of the selection agreements and others. The second group of amendments relate to Regulation No 606/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters which apply from 11 January 2015 and provides that protection measures laid down are to be recognised in all Member States by means of a simplified procedure. During the discussion Mr. Delchev raised the question that the proposed provision of art. 23 of the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence provides for a procedure before the Sofia City Court for the recognition of protection measures, despite the requirement of Regulation No 606/2013 to do so automatically. In reply, Mrs. Elena Doycheva explained that the Regulation did not completely repeal the procedure for the judicial part of the recognition of the protection measures and that the procedure in the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence is largely formal and no more special measures are required. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 17 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 402-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014, proposed to support a draft amendment and supplement to the Civil Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u67	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u68	Mr. Chairman, will you allow me to submit the next report?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u69	Welcome to the report regarding the Bill, which is No 554-01-9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending the Civil Procedure Code, No 554-01-9, submitted by Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov and a group of MPs on 21.01.2015; Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 554-01-25, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 06.02.2015 and Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 554-01-27, submitted by Maya Bozidarova Manolova and a group of MPs on 11.02.2015. At its meeting held on 12 February 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the three draft laws already cited. The meeting was attended by: Judge Tanya Raykovska, Supreme Court of Cassation and Chairman of the Chamber of Commerce, and Judge Krasimir Vlahov, Vice-President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and Chairman of the Civil College, as well as representatives of professional and civil organizations. The Bill amending the Civil Procedure Code, No 554-01-9, submitted by Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, was presented by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov. It provides for the annulment of some of the grounds for issuing an order for execution under art. 417 GPC. In order to protect the rights of legal entities, it is proposed that, in cases where the claim is based on an administrative act, a document or an extract from books, an act establishing a private state or municipal claim or an act of review, not proceed to execution before the court decides. The Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 554-01-25, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on February 06, 2015, was presented by the Vice-President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. In order to reduce the workload and ease the work of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the bill proposes that the orders given by the Court of Appeal be appealed with a private complaint before the Supreme Court of Cassation and those given by the District Court as an appeal before the Court of Appeal (Art. 274 of the PDK). In addition, decisions in commercial matters with a demand price of up to 20,000 are proposed. lv. and decisions in certain civil cases of less legal complexity shall not be subject to a cassation appeal (Art. 280, para. 2 of the GPC). An amendment is also proposed as regards the appeal of the decisions of a disciplinary committee to impose a penalty on a notary before the Supreme Court of Cassation due to the dismissal of the administration of justice in 5-member groups under the repealed Civil Procedure Code. The Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 554-01-27, submitted by Maya Bozidarova Manolova and a group of MPs, was presented by the MP Maya Manolova. It provides for a wide range of amendments covering the notification regime under art. 47 of the GPC, the defendant in respect of claims, regardless of their price, joined in a single application by a court of law, the regime of the State fee for property claims and bond claims, the grounds for annulment of an effective decision under art. 303 of the GPC, executive production and others. People's representatives Chavdar Georgiev, Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Petar Slavov, Yavor Notev, Philip Popov, Chetin Kazak, Slavcho Atanasov, Maya Manolova took part in the discussion. In the course of the discussion, the people's representative Chavdar Georgiev noted that achieving a level playing field between the parties could lead to a burden on the court and stressed that in the enforcement proceedings a balance must be found to enable both the protection and the realization of the creditor's rights in an adversely developed relationship and the protection of the debtor's rights. Mr. Mitev expressed support for the presented bills, as he said they are solving significant issues and will improve the current regulations. Mr. Slavov also pointed out that he would support the bills, but noted that if he dropped out. 2 of art. 417 of the GPC, the banks will replace this method with t. 3, namely notary certification of the signature for all bank loan contracts. He posed a question to the representatives of the Supreme Court of Cassation concerning the proposal to create a point. 9 in art. Therefore, the Commission considers that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. In response, Judge Raykovska and Judge Vlahov noted that this would threaten legal certainty and allow review of judicial disputes that ended decades ago. Mr. Kazak expressed concern regarding the dropping of certain grounds under art. 417 of the GPC, which concern the powers of the state and of the municipalities and which will affect the scheme provided for them. In response Mr. Mitev noted that the municipalities can benefit from the order of the order procedure under art. 410 of the GPC and next. Mr. Kirilov joined the other MPs and expressed his support for the submitted bills. He stressed, however, that there are also some concerns regarding certain texts, one of which is that the state and municipalities should not be deprived of a more economical way to collect their claims. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 14 votes for the Council, without the opposition and abstention, proposes to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft amending the Civil Procedure Code, No 554-01-9, submitted by Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov and a group of MPs on 21 January 2015; - with 15 votes in favour of the National Assembly, without the opposition and abstention, propose to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Civil Procedure Code, No 554-01-25, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on February 06, 2015; - with 14 votes in favour of the National Assembly, with no opposition to the Code of Civil Procedure, No 554-01-27, submitted by Maya Bozhidarova Manolova and a group of MPs on 11.02.2015 - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u71	Thank you. There are no other reports from committees. I declare the debate open. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Bayraktarov, come in on behalf of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, on behalf of an importer, I would like to draw your attention to the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code, in particular the repeal of four points from the darkened art. 417 GPC. For me, by the way, it is incomprehensible that there are so few MPs in this House on such an important topic at the moment, because this article literally ruined the lives of hundreds of thousands of honest and honest Bulgarian citizens and, at the same time, thousands of such lives is, so to speak, placed on the map, especially as regards the affair of Swiss frances, which is on the agenda. But to be motivated and justified, I will divide my presentation into two major fragments: the first to concern our internal legislation and the second to concern European legislation. It would have been good to take you back in time, fellow Members, in 2007, when the Legal Committee had to urgently and quite busy drawing up the new Civil Procedure Code. In conversation, participants in this Commission have acknowledged that colleagues have been extremely burdened and it is normal to make mistakes. However, one of the wordings which motivated the adoption of art. 417, it was that this was a requirement of the European Union, of the European Commission. Such a requirement never existed, it does not exist to date. Among the main reasons for the adoption of the current Civil Procedure Code was the slow and ineffective administration of justice, which allowed a large number of civil cases with generally clear and uniform cases to clog, so to speak, the courts, and once they ended up with a judgment after repeated and long-standing delays, to face a completely ineffective enforcement procedure, unable in any way to protect the interests of creditors. These were one of the main motives. One of the key innovations of the new Civil Procedure Code in 2007 was the so-called "one-time proceedings" under art. 410, and his older brother, the immediate ordering procedure under art. 417. The concept of order proceedings is to introduce a formal judicial method for condemning the debtor and bringing him to enforcement by saving the inconveniences, costs and delays of a classical action. Motivated by the attempt to force the conviction of the debtor and the entry into effective enforcement, the legislator has become quite serious and has reached far beyond the competitive beginning of the process the equality of the parties in the process and their right to protection. All principles of law, which are enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as in a number of generally recognised European norms. In accordance with art. 417 of the GPC, whose four points we want to cancel, the debtor understands this condemnation only when he receives a summons from the bailiff for voluntary execution. Thus, the debtor shall be deprived of the fundamental rights recognised in the Constitution according to art. 121, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 122, para. 1, which are in force for all Bulgarian citizens, deprives him of his right to equality before the law by violating, as I have already said, the competitive beginning. The possibility for the creditor to condemn the debtor in a rapid procedure without informing him of it without giving him the opportunity to be heard and to defend himself, also violates fundamental legal principles. In the case of art. 417 state institutions and municipalities act as ordinary civil-law entities, with the lack of power over banks, which are essentially private commercial entities, even more obvious. The assumption that claims of state institutions, municipalities and banks to be collected under an accelerated procedure were justified in 2007 by the authors of the regulations under attack with the need to increase collection by increasing the efficiency of justice by reducing costs and time limits for condemnation. However, in this way, colleagues, a fundamental civil law principle is violated, which is formulated in art. 154, para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 180 of the Civil Procedure Code. According to the provisions cited, each party is obliged to establish the facts on which it base its claims or objections. In addition, private documents signed by the persons who issued them constitute proof that the statements contained therein were made by those persons. The latter, honourable Members, means that the private document issued unilaterally by the person himself, in this case the creditor, whether a state office, a municipality or a bank, cannot serve as a secure proof of anything other than the fact that the person made that statement. There is a serious lesson in law here. No one can condemn anyone else only on the basis of their own claims for their own benefit. In fact, the issue of such a document lays down exactly such a hypothesis in art. 417. Even fellow Members, the criminal who confessed to his crimes cannot be convicted on that basis alone. Absurd is also the possibility to issue a document based on an extract from accounting books. Colleagues, I can tell you that in the Bulgarian rule of law there is no such thing as an extract from the books of accounting. Even in the Accounting Act, which is the specialized law, there is no such concept. In other words, if we allow this wicked practice to continue, it means that we are actually giving the opportunity to develop corruption, which, unfortunately, is already a fact. My fellow Members, I can't help but notice that if we accept the acts of the administrative bodies for non-application of evidence, this, as I have already said, means to open wide doors to the state's arbitrariness, to the municipal administration. Once again, to encourage corruption and organised crime through introduced concepts that have never existed in the Bulgarian rule of law do not exist at this time. Dear colleagues, with the texts introduced in art. 417 I can't help but notice that it is violated and art. 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Here I would like to admit to you, fellow Members, that I am deeply puzzled by the vote by the MPs from the DPS during the Law Commission, because look at the paradox we are falling into: those Members who plead for the protection of rights and freedoms voted against the Convention for the Protection of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, and as you can see, they are not even present in this Chamber. For me, it's a strange amazement. Moreover, the problem is fundamental from the point of view of the philosophy of law and it is not by chance regulated in art. 6 of the European Convention. It is by virtue of this anti-democratic text over the last eight years that tens of thousands of honest, decent citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u73	Mr. Bajraktarov, since the scheduled time is up, do you wish an extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u74	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u75	Please report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u76	It was under this anti-democratic text that tens of thousands of citizens were literally destroyed, their property was taken away, as was the business of tens of thousands of honest and honest companies. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u77	I'm asking you to guide yourself to completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u78	I'm done. This text, honourable Members, clearly violates Directive 93/13 of the European Community of 5 April 1993, as well as the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and, more precisely, art. 1 of Protocol No 1 to the Convention on the Protection of Property Rights. I appeal to you to respect the constitutional obligation to work in defence of the Bulgarian citizens and to support this bill submitted by the group of the Patriotic Front to cancel these four points of art. 417 of the GPC to bring about justice and true law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u79	Thank you. For lines? [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Mrs. Manolova, for a statement? [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Here you go. [[Heckling]] I've written you down before Mr. Kirilov, but if there's any consensus between you... [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] As an importer, please, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u80	Honourable Members of the House, Mr. Chairman! The Law on the Amendment and Supplement of the Civil Procedure Code introduced by the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria is on two extremely important topics for the Bulgarian citizens the subject of banks and their privilege to supply with executive lists against debtors in a light order, and the subject of judicial contractors who have literally invaded and turned the fates of tens of thousands of our compatriots in recent years. About how serious and comprehensive this problem is and the numbers speak, and I would only quote two of them. Last year, private court contractors raised debts of debtors of more than 1 billion. BGN, and pending executive cases during the private judicial execution to date are worth more than 5 billion. lv. This, of course, is also the result of internal debt in the context of an economic and financial crisis in which Bulgarian citizens and companies are located, on the other hand, is an indication that much of the judicial decisions are not implemented voluntarily, but that the intervention of the judicial contractors is necessary. With regard to their participation in the collection of loans and obligations with regard to banks, it does result in colossal abuses which are made possible by law and which I could describe by several specific examples in various enforcement proceedings concerning the recovery of claims from banks. First example. Commercial bank, on purpose I do not quote the name of the bank, drawing on the light procedure an executive list against the National Centre for Social Rehabilitation. Forms on the basis of this executive list of executive cases before a private judicial contractor in the region of Burgas District Court. As a result of problems with the call, the private judicial contractor does not at all notify the debtor of the National Centre for Social Rehabilitation, and he learns about the filed enforcement case at the moment when he is proceeding to a public sale of mortgaged property for the benefit of the bank a hotel in Primorsko, which is part of the assets of the National Centre for Social Rehabilitation. As a result of the debtor's inability to appeal the valuation of the real estate, it is exported to a public sale of 3 million. lv. In the absence of any other comments, the Commission concluded that there is a likelihood of continuation or recurrence of dumping should the measures be allowed to lapse. The debtor lodges an objection and a complaint which, until they are moved, properties are exported and sold on public sale. Subsequently, as a result of the appeal, the executive list was debarred by the court, but the National Centre for Social Rehabilitation remained without its property in Primorsko. Second case. Other bank under the relieved procedure of art. 417 is supplied with an executive list against a trading company. The trading company shall lodge a private complaint against this executive list. The Court of Justice administered the complaint only one year later and until the proceedings were initiated the properties owned by this company were exported and sold on public sale. The case subsequently ends in favour of the debtor, and the executive sheets are down, but the company is without its own property anyway. Case number three. Third commercial bank under the relieved procedure of art. 417 is supplied with an executive sheet against four debtors. They shall lodge a complaint and an objection against the executive list and also against the interest wrongly charged on their obligation. Since the court in this proceedings has no commitment to monitor the correctness of accounting and receipt of the final obligation, complaints and objections are left without respect, as a result of which the property in which debtors live is exported to a public sale and sold. Consequently, after the completion of the proceedings, it turns out that the four debtors overpaid an amount of 8 thousand. 318 euros and the loan was wrongly declared early, but the property was sold on public sale anyway. I can give other examples of how a person has been convicted of the same claim on the same books twice and as a result of the executive lists has paid twice the same obligation. It's been collected. As a result of a subsequent judicial procedure, it proves its legality. I can also give an example with a Bulgarian family, which for an obligation of 42 thousand. lv. remains without its own residence, leaves the country with the three children, and subsequently it is proved in the general court procedure that it has overpaid its debts and credit in the rest of it was not overdue, but anyway it is a matter of ruined fates and bankrupt commercial companies. That is why we are submitting our bill, which has several concrete proposals. We propose a change in art. 417 "The text which gives unlimited opportunities to banks to collect, in a light procedure, obligations from their borrowers, as opposed to colleagues from the Patriotic Front, allows the debtor to assess whether he agrees to collect their claim in light order and thus to save himself legal fees and expenses, or wishes the case to be dealt with in general law. Why are we making this offer? The legal fees and expenses are not at all small and, for example, in the collection of an obligation of 100 thousand. lv. only the debtor's court fee of 4% amounted to 4 thousand. BGN, separate legal fees, fees and expenses for property persons, for several experts. What remains to owe a debtor in an indisputable production, because there is also a mass of such cases, is its additional load with tens of thousands of leva. We propose that credit debtors who cannot pay should be able to assess whether to save their fees and expenses in a rapid procedure or to prove their right to not owe or that they are wrongly charged interest in a legal proceedings under the general law. We also propose that the property that is being sold to the public can be appealed in respect of their valuations. Now one of the dramas of debtors is that they cannot object to the court contractor in cases where they determine the valuation of the real estate in times less than the market value. As a result of the proceedings, the debtor remains without a property sold at tens of times lower price and remains a debtor for life for an obligation he cannot pay. We also propose clear rules regarding the call. It is a fact that a large part of the abuses and of the court contractors in the framework of the rapid recovery of bank claims are received as a result of the problems in the call, especially in cases where the debtor is not found by the court summoners in the general order and they have to place reports under one procedure in the GPC. We propose that these hypotheses be strictly refined so that at least debtors in due time learn that they are subject to judicial execution as a result of requests from banks to meet their required obligations. We are also making other changes to the entire executive process. For example, it is important that of the Institute of Unsuccessibility. Let us recall that the texts in the Civil Procedure Code were written in 2007, when the minimum wage was 220 BGN. With its rise now to BGN 360, and subsequently to BGN 380, the amount of sequestable property should be increased, so that the assets that should not be touched should not be subject to enforcement should really be increased. So we propose that this be done with an act of the Council of Ministers, not part of the Civil Procedure Code. To conclude, this Bill, drawn up after a broad discussion and with civil organisations, was tabled within the framework of the previous National Assembly. There he could not receive support, so I congratulate my colleagues from the Patriotic Front for the legislation and the parliamentary majority they tabled, in case he showed courage and supported these bills, which, although not submitted by representatives of GERB, ultimately resolve important issues that harass Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u81	Mrs. Manolova, you've been delayed for over a minute. You've graduated. Thank you. On behalf of the importers, is there anyone else willing to protect the imported bill? I can't see. I'm opening the debate on the legislation so tabled. Are there any who wish to speak on behalf of the parliamentary groups? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the importers have told quite detail about each bill, there are four of them. I think all four can be supported and I will support them. It seems to me that on their basis we can draw up a pretty good consolidated bill that reflects all the good ideas that can be found in these bills. I will allow myself to focus only on three things that have been mentioned, but I do not know if you have been able to pay attention to them. Undoubtedly, it is first the good intention of fellow Members of the Patriotic Front to limit the arbitrariness we have witnessed more than once in recent years and these abuses which a number of bank officials allow themselves to do. But here I am paying attention, as I have also told the Commission, that the simple cancellation of certain provisions in the GPC will not solve the problem. For me personally, the better solution is really to think about how to solve it, because if we just cancel one or another point of the GPC in the part concerning the so-called immediate implementation, the banks will most likely switch to one of the following points, in particular the notarial certification of credit agreements. And we all know that this will be at the expense of the borrowers, so it is possible to achieve exactly the opposite effect, while the banks will again be able to supply with an executive sheet of about the same procedure, but at increased costs for all borrowers. I am convinced that this is not the purpose of the Bill, and we could really find a better solution based on the consolidated bill. The other essential thing that I want to highlight and what I find in the Bill submitted by Mrs Maya Manolova and a group of MPs are the two possibilities of further, subsequent control of the legality of judicial decisions, namely two new points. 8 and so on. Article 9, in art. 303 relating to the so-called suspension of judgments in force. There, in practice, it is proposed that such a thing can be done on the basis of an anti-constitutional rule established by the Constitutional Court of Justice of a given law or given an interpretive decision of the Supreme Court of Cassation to which that judgment contradicts. In both cases, there will obviously be an existing unlawfulness, which, under the current rules on the entry into force of such acts, cannot be achieved simply because, as we all know, the decisions of the Constitutional Court act in the future and cannot, on the basis of them, be reviewed already resolved disputes. The same applies to interpretation decisions. I also had the opportunity to ask representatives of the Supreme Court of Cassation at a Commission meeting what their attitude towards these provisions was. They were not very clear, expressed certain reservations, but it seems to me that they were not against such a conceptual approach. Rather, they were worried about the deadlines, i.e. to still have some limitation period, for which a retroactive review may be required, so as not to come up with situations where decisions from 50 years ago are reviewed, which is hardly the purpose of the importer, of course. What I'm about to finish is the debtor's rights in the executive process. A number of measures aimed at further protecting the rights of the debtor and limiting unfair practices by the court contractors have also been partially mentioned. I note that, as the next item on the agenda, we will be looking at changes to the Private Judicial Contractor Act, so both in the GPC and in the Private Judicial Contractor Act, we can make between the two readings quite good additional proposals that will solve to a large extent these problems, which, of course, we from the Reformation Block will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u83	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I can't see. The next person to sign up for a speech is the People's Representative Christian Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u84	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support all four legislations tabled. The bills of colleague Dimitar Bajraktarov and the Patriotic Front, as well as Mrs. Manolova's Bill and colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria, are obviously looking in the same direction, namely a reform in the enforcement proceedings, implemented by the adoption of the new Civil Procedure Code and proved that there are certain imperfections and an imbalance between the interests of the creditor and the debtor. Specially regarding the proposal in art. 417 of colleague Bajraktarov and the Patriotic Front, although it is an idea more radical, we believe that the issue of change and reform of this text should be raised in this way. Of course, we tend to discuss between first and second readings to rethink some of our positions. I express my personal opinion in this case that this privilege actually has a right to be reserved for the state and municipalities, but I strongly oppose that the banks continue to appear in this regard. 2 alongside these public-law entities. Although a private and legal entity, a commercial company for a particular purpose, a bank should not benefit from and stand at one level, at one level with the state and municipalities. This is unacceptable for us. That's why we think t. 2 in this form should undergo a change. Whether the radical approach will be adopted to remove them entirely from the scope of the provision of art. 417, or will be preferred the approach that colleague Manolova and other colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria have adopted in their proposal is a matter of discussion. We also support the proposals made in Mrs. Maya Manolova's Bill in the direction of optimizing the call. Indeed, calling is one of the essential problems. In relation to enforcement proceedings, in many cases debtors are not notified at all that enforcement proceedings have been initiated. Adapting a notification, as per the provisions in force, is extremely insufficient. This notification is usually glued to the outside doors, anyone can tear it down at all. The debtor was not informed at one time that he could object to and use all the legal remedies provided by the Civil Procedure Code and was at one time an entity in enforcement proceedings. We therefore believe that the changes tabled are adequate and will substantially improve the current legislation. We also believe that the possibility of contesting the assessment of the property subject to enforcement is the right measure to enable better protection of the debtor in the executive process. The proposed reduction from 30 to 20 per cent of the debtor's performance in enforcement proceedings is also correct, thereby encouraging conscientious debtors. Not everyone can separate 30%, as is now the text in force, in order to repay part of the obligation and then carry out a deferral, but for many people it will be possible to pay, or they will be able to mobilize and pay those 20% and then reschedule their obligations. In this way, both the creditor and the debtor will be protected. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words regarding the Bill submitted by Mr. Kirilov and a group of MPs, which we believe will greatly speed up the civil process in relation to the private complaints that will be subject, after the adoption of this change, to a challenge when brought by a regional court of cassation control by the appeals courts. The appeals courts, as well as the criminal trial we've already talked about, are not that busy. They can take up and deal with these disputes, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the increase in the fee, which is admissible before a court of cassation of commercial matters, will provide a greater opportunity for the Supreme Court of Cassation to carry out one of its main powers, namely the carrying out of an interpretive activity. On these proposed considerations, we will support the bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u85	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I won't. To address Mr. Ivan Ivanov from the BSP group left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u86	Madam President, honourable Members! Today we are looking at four bills, which are, by their nature, long expected by the Bulgarian society and concern mainly the interests of debtors. In my statement, I will not dwell in detail on what has been proposed by different colleagues, but only on one part of what we have imported. Overall, I can say that our group supports the proposed amendments. In particular, I will address the changes that we propose in the regulation concerning non-secresibility, as the existing Civil Procedure Code and, in particular, the provision of art. 446 is in force from 1 March 2008. Here the definition of non-secessable income is closely linked to the amount of minimum wage, which is indicated by the Council of Ministers' Decree No 1 of 11 January 2008 to determine a new amount of minimum wage, in this case it is 220 BGN. Since then, this amount has been amended five times and the limits fixed in the Code against which the sequestable parts are determined have not been updated once. No doubt the norm in this form needs to be amended in relation to the new amount of minimum monthly remuneration, as from 1 January 2015 it is already BGN 360. In such a factual situation, there is no way for any person to apply the hypothesis of art. 446 para. 1, t. 1, as the first sequestable part refers to persons with income the size of the minimum wage and 300 BGN. As a consequence, not a small part of the debtors suffer less favourable conditions as they are subject to the sequestable part of the item. 2, namely one third, respectively a quarter of the income. In order to establish the stability of the above-mentioned norm and to comply with the fact that it is inappropriate to indicate specific values which are subject to an almost annual update in a legislative act of the Code, we propose that this circle of public relations be settled by means of a regulation of the Council of Ministers. As the minimum remuneration for the country is determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers, it is appropriate that this body can, by means of an act, update the limits against which the sequencing parts which are currently regulated in art. 446 para. 1, t. 1.. 4 of the GPC. In order to refine texts that refer to the GPC, we propose that the Transitional and Final Regulations amend the regulations that are directly related to the proposed proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u87	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. The word is Mr. Binev to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we all know that the laws in Bulgaria are not quality and every day we witness abuses and gaps in them. In view of this, the work of the courts is extremely important. That's what I'm saying about the bill Mr. Kirilov submitted. In view of this extreme importance, it is the work of the courts to apply qualitatively, quickly, fairly and often complement the incomplete legal framework through interpretation. I therefore disagree with the proposal to ease the work of the Supreme Court of Cassation. Legal security is extremely important for the security of people, businesses and, of course, for foreign investments, which according to the latest statistics of BNB for January have fallen in times. If necessary, to increase the state of the Court, but not to leave many Bulgarian citizens without the opportunity to obtain justice. Regarding the project submitted by Mr. Bajraktarov on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, I fully support the changes proposed by the Patriotic Front, which I represent at the moment because they are only for the benefit of the Bulgarian citizens, who in recent years are completely defenseless as a result of the current article. 417 of the Civil Procedure Code. Regarding the fourth Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers, I am sorry that they are not here to present it to them. I would like to say with concern that at the moment all of the Council of Ministers are heirs of a past practice where, unfortunately, the problem is the late response to the adoption of European legal acts. This practice is constantly repeated in our country, for which we are strongly criticised by the European Commission, we are even condemned in Strasbourg. I demand that steps be taken to implement European acts as quickly and effectively as possible in our country so that penalties and a reminder from the European Commission are not reached, which somehow compromises us as legislators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u89	Thank you, Mr. Binev. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u90	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Binev, I did not understand in fact why you would not support the Law, which concerns the conviction of cases in the supreme instance. The relationship that you have pointed out, if you think so, I will say directly that I will not support the Patriotic Front Bill for reasons that I have expressed co-ordinately only in front of the Patriotic Front. The proposed amendment to art. 417 is extremely populist, extremely ineffective, extremely false, damages the state and the municipality. So despite the enormous violence I've caused on myself, you have the equal opportunity to express and present this bill in the Legal Commission, I will say that then your application withdraws my support.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u91	Second line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Binev, the meaning, since I am a co-worker of this bill, it is not just to unload the supreme judges to have less work. The point is for them to better implement the Law, to issue more quality judicial acts and to rule them out faster. Because as we all know, delayed justice is often not justice. At the moment, the Supreme Court is overwhelmed with private complaints which can be resolved at the lower courts, so that in practice the supreme magistrates can concentrate on dealing in substance, qualitatively and within time, and, if possible, quickly the cases that concern tens and hundreds of Bulgarian citizens. This is the main meaning of these proposals. I appeal to you, take a look at them. I think the proposals are good and will speed up the work of the Supreme Court and possibly the entire judiciary. All this is done with the main aim of improving justice and improving the work of courts. My appeal is: look into them and I think you'll agree with me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u93	Third line? I won't. Hole, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u94	I'm sorry I haven't been properly understood. It's not like there's gonna be no support at all. Yes, you do. That's clear. At the moment, I am expressing my personal opinion on this issue by interpreting the words of the people who informed me, since I am not a lawyer. These people think that's a problem. In this case, I have only spoken for myself on this matter. So your support for your bill has not been removed at all. I'm sorry this has turned you on so much and you're reacting this way. I'm sorry. I think we're here to pass on the information that comes from our constituents. There's nothing incomprehensible and fatal about it so we can react so harshly. I think I did it in an elegant way, not too aggressively. I think it's perfectly normal to pass on the information we receive from our constituents and warn each other. Think of it not as some criticism, but as something we have to betray from the people...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u95	You must have the same will as the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u96	The will of the group is in favour of the Bill. I thought I made myself very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u97	We'll take 30 minutes off. We'll continue at 12.05. There are requests for speeches. Holiday till 12.05. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u98	I ask the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats. We are continuing with the debates on the Bills of Amendment and Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code. Here you go. We're listening to your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u99	Madam President, honourable Members! As one of the contributors of the draft amending the Civil Procedure Code with colleague Manolova, I would like to take account of some of the texts that we propose for change. Before that, I would like to congratulate the other importers, as the Civil Procedure Code is undoubtedly one of the most commented in the legal circles basic procedural law, and in many cases there are very few debates among them. As an acting lawyer, I've tested both pros and cons in many of the texts. I believe that both colleagues in this Chamber know well both the good and bad environments of the Civil Procedure Code. With colleague Manolova and some of the other colleagues, we have tried to propose some changes to the texts with which we believe that we will greatly contribute to building and adopting a better law. I will refer specifically to only two texts which we propose to change the provision of art. 47, para. 1 and para. 3. Undoubtedly, the process begins with a very difficult moment. The legalists know that in many cases the process is delayed precisely for purpose, i.e. in connection with the calling of the parties. Our proposal in the provision of art. 47, para. 1, in order to achieve a better level playing field and yet to ensure the right of the opposing party to know that there is a civil process against it, it is the call through the so-called handlers to do so through at least three visits within a week. We all know that we are not always at home, and not always who visits the home of the opposing party will find it at the address indicated in the application. There are not few cases when glued to a message because of the disbelief of neighbors, other citizens are removed and the country that this message is left does not know at all that there is a message for it. We believe that with a three-fold visit, we will ensure that the country is ultimately equalised to know about its case. Secondly, we propose a change in the provision of art. 47, para. 3, which aims to achieve better speed in calling. We all know that the application party usually refers to an address that is known at the time of the application, but in many cases the answer party is not present at this address. Then proceed to an indication of the court, which actually instructs the plaintiff to indicate a permanent or present address. However, this cannot be done without issuing the relevant certificate by the court and thus the whole procedure is delayed. For this reason, our proposal is for this to be done by the court to carry out this change after we already know that by Decree No 14 of 18 November 2009 and another regulation the court has access to this data and can carry out the reference in its official capacity. This will greatly ease the process and thus guarantee the possibility of the defendant receiving the subpoena sent.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u100	Thank you, Mr. Karagyozov. - What's the line? There aren't any. To speak, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u101	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to say once again that the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front will support all the legislation tabled concerning amendment and supplement to the Civil Procedure Code. In everyone there is a lot of reason, thought in both the Bill of colleague Daniel Kirilov, which really provides for an acceleration of the process and of the colleagues from BSP. I hope that today, in this House, common sense will prevail, which basically shows that it is good to have this debate. This is a debate for the benefit of Bulgarian society, Bulgarian citizens. I therefore ask you once again to support all four bills, because it really does make a lot of sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u102	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. We're closing the debate. Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. There's a vote coming up. I put to the first vote a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code with an importer of the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code with importers Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs from 21 January 2015. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 102 MPs: 99 against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code with importers Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs from 6 February 2015. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code with importers Maya Manolova and a group of MPs from 11 February 2015. They voted 102 MPs: 54, Against 7, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u103	My fellow Members, Madam President, I expect that the vote by the MPs of GERB's Parliamentary Group is due to some misunderstanding and misleading that we are from the opposition. In practice, the bill was supported by lawyers in the Legal Commission, including lawyers in GERB. There were very good words in the Chamber about the Bill because for every lawyer and non-jurist is important and it is clear that it solves important problems which are a fact both in terms of the exclusive powers of banks and judicial execution and the call and of the sequestable property and the appeal of real estate valuations. I simply do not allow that, as a result of the debates that took place in plenary, there is a Member of the Parliament who would vote against real estate valuations, not to appeal; that there is a Member of the Parliament who would be opposed to clarifying the call in the civil process, which would be against limiting the banks in their powers. I'm saying it totally collegiately. I ask you to reconsider your conduct and support this Bill, because I have not heard any criticism from any Member of the National Assembly regarding the texts. They are thought-out, working, discussed with both civil organisations and lawyers and with human rights defenders. Since no arguments have been put forward against the opposition, on the contrary, all the speeches have been for support, I do not really have an explanation for this vote. I guess it was a mistake.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u104	Revoting, coworkers! They voted 103 MPs: 62, against 4, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. The quarm is 63. Show the results in groups. Moving on to the next point: The original VOICE OF THE LAW TO REPEAT THE LAW FOR PARTICIPATORS - importers are Volen Siderov and a group of Members of the National Assembly, and the LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PARTICULAR REPRESENTATIVES. Exporters are Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. Reports have been received from the Legal Committee on both bills. Who will present the reports to us, Mr. Kirilov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u105	Madam President, honourable Members! I'd like to introduce you. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill for the annulment of the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, No 454-01-6, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27.10.2014. At its meeting held on 21 January 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a bill repealing the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, No 454-01-6, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27.10.2014. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Ilian Todorov. The proposal for a complete annulment of the Law on Private Judicial Contractors is motivated by the undue and in unnecessary large amounts affecting the financial interests of the Bulgarian citizens by the private judicial contractors. People's representatives Svilen Ivanov, Yavor Notev, Danail Kirilov and Emil Dimitrov took part in the discussion of the Bill. Mr. Svilen Ivanov noted that the possibility of recovery of claims through private judicial contractors is a good alternative in view of the slow proceedings before the state courts. In support of the bill, Mr. Yavor Notev noted that the Law allows citizens who are already in difficulty to seek amounts that are repeatedly beyond their obligation. This is unacceptable and must be regulated. Mr. Danail Kirilov expressed his opinion that the Bill is radical, although indeed part of the expenditure is excessive, which affects the interests of the citizens. He argued his symbolic support for the Bill, despite the inability to accept it in this final version, with the existence of a strong need for legislation to be in line with reality and to be improved. Mr. Emil Dimitrov shared the opinion that the problem is really in pain and a consensus solution should be sought, in view of which it is necessary to initiate a public debate. He publicly supported the Bill, noting the inability to be adopted in this form due to its extremeness. Following a vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 5 votes, 4 votes against abstention and 9 votes abstention proposed to the National Assembly not to support the first vote Draft for the annulment of the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, No 454-01-6, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27.10.2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u106	Give her the next report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u107	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, No 554-01-28, submitted by Maya Bozhidarova Manolova and a group of MPs on 11 February 2015. At its meeting held on 12.02.2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, No 554-01-28, submitted by Maya Bozhidarova Manolova and a group of MPs on 11 February 2015. The bill was presented by the MP Maya Manolova. The proposed amendments provide that the amount of fees to be collected in the event of enforcement shall not exceed the amount of the obligation and, in the case of voluntary execution, within the period of the invitation served, the proportional fee on the amount paid shall be charged in half amount. In this way, it is intended to achieve fair and effective enforcement. People's representatives Chavdar Georgiev, Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Petar Slavov, Yavor Notev, Philip Popov, Chetin Kazak, Slavcho Atanasov, Maya Manolova took part in the discussion. In the course of the discussion, the MPs expressed their support for the proposed bill. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, No 554-01-28, submitted by Maya Bozidarova Manolova and a group of MPs on 11 February 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. On behalf of the importers? Under the Law of the National Representative Volen Siderov on behalf of the importers, is there anyone? Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u109	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! We at Ataka suggest that the Law on Private Judicial Contractors should be dropped and that they simply no longer exist, simply because at this stage private judicial execution does not function well and for the benefit of society, but only works for the benefit of a large group of people who have become millionaires on the back of the Bulgarian people. Corruption in private judicial enforcement starts on different occasions, such as cases where the debtor is not knowingly detected and this warrants the delivery of a voluntary service. The lack of disciplinary, criminal civil legal sanctions for abuse and causing damage has led to massive violations and abuses by the private judicial contractors in Bulgaria. Here we have to say that in countries of the European Union such as Spain, Austria, Germany, Denmark, Italy and 11 other countries of the European Union, judicial enforcement is entirely state-owned what we are proposing and we are proposing that Ataka take place in Bulgaria. Private judicial enforcement at this time fully serves the interests of banks and financial institutions and resolves non-essential issues such as the issue of inter-company indebtedness. Forced execution acquires a mass character and the public no longer trusts in private judicial execution. The massive public sales of homes, hotels, businesses are not successful due to the lack of cash available in the Bulgarian economy. Forced execution makes sense when the debtor doesn't want to do it. But in most cases the debtors agree to sell, but there are no real buyers, and the banks refuse to renegotiate the loans so that they can actually repay themselves. The increasingly frequent requests by the private judicial contractors in Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior, to provide greater assistance in the course of the entire enforcement process, is an indication of the transition to repressive and forceful redistribution of property, not to respect the debtor's legal rights. The use of the Ministry of Interior against citizens creates a presumption of legality of the action of private judicial contractors. This Law, as we know, was adopted in 2005 and for its period of action since the opening of the Institute of Private Judicial Contractors, has undergone a number of changes. However, with the economic changes in our country during the period of the Act it becomes clear that it suffers from very severe and serious shortcomings which negatively affect the legal situation of Bulgarian citizens. Moreover, the financial interests of Bulgarian citizens in a way that leads to impoverishment, permitted by law, are unduly affected and in undue proportions. Let's not bury our head in the sand and say that at the moment a Bulgarian debtor, who owes 300 BGN, after the private bailiff intervened, owes already 600 BGN. Double. That's not anywhere in the world, guys. The attack has always been about protecting the interests of society in front of those of certain circles. It was with the Law on Private Judicial Contractors that was introduced such a circle, which so far continues to grow and benefit at the expense of the poor Bulgarian. In the event that the law on private judicial contractors in our society is repealed so far, there will be no major collapse. The courts will continue to function, but state-owned ones will now be state-owned. By abolishing the CSI Law, an injustice created in 2005 will be fully corrected and continued to this day, which is just a legally formed mafia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Todorov. From the importers of the second bill has the floor of the People's Representative Maya Manolova. Here you are, Mrs. Manolova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u111	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I understand that GERB have taken a political decision not to support a bill tabled by the opposition, but I will nevertheless present the bill tabled by my fellow Members to make sure that each of the MPs of GERB, who will vote against it, is aware of what this is about. I think that if not us, the voters will take responsibility for the fact that they do not want to put order both in the private judicial execution and in the arbitrariness and terror that the banks exercise on the Bulgarian citizens. Working in the interests of the people and voters is the commitment of every MP and responsibility of anyone who speaks one thing and does another before those who have chosen it. The bill that we have tabled with colleagues is a continuation of the changes that we have proposed in the Civil Procedure Code and aims to create more justice with regard to debtors who, for one reason or another, cannot owe themselves obligations established by court order. It's about the huge fees that the bailiffs collect. The proposed bill is a way to put order so that justice can be done. That is, one person who, for some reason, has become unable to pay his debts to a bank, a monopoly company or another creditor, not to be completely destroyed in the process of repaying his debt. We propose something that is very simple and understandable, namely the sum of all execution fees not to exceed the amount of the obligation or half of that amount. These are proposals that can be discussed between first and second readings. I explain, for commitments usually to companies monopoly.. to.Topplofication, to energy distribution companies, to mobile operators, to banks, citizens of one obligation within 300-400 BGN. Finally, they prove to be debtors of several thousand leva. That's not fair. It is also not fair for the bailiff to direct the execution for an obligation of 300 BGN. to several properties of the debtor, to his wages, because in the end all these charges burden the person who, for some reason, cannot pay for a relatively low obligation. I'll set an example to illustrate the situation. As a result of a court execution, a late credit card obligation, a fellow MP from the previous parliament turned out to be on a salary in parliament, in the VUM, in which he taught, is also with prohibited property in Sofia and agricultural land in Northern Bulgaria. After all, the obligation of 400 leva. became an obligation of 1,400 leva. If for an MP this is not a special problem, for a citizen who receives a minimum or average salary, for an obligation of 300 BGN. To owe 1300 is obviously unfair. So the proposal we are making is precisely in the defense of these debtors. There is nothing political in these proposals and only a distorted mind can vote against such proposals only because they are proposed by people who are not from his political party. The second proposal refers to cases where debtors pay their obligation within the period of voluntary execution, namely then they owe half of the fees due. In this way, on the one hand, the enforcement procedure itself will be accelerated, i.e. the creditors will receive their obligations in due time, on the other hand, the person who paid within the voluntary execution period, i.e. immediately, should not be burdened with the full amount of the fees. Of course, these proposals are not welcomed by the court performers. It is possible that GERB's decision to vote against it is dictated not only by ideological considerations........ that we propose it by the opposition......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think these are fair proposals that will ease the Bulgarian citizens, and if you really think about debtors who have fallen into a position not to be able to pay off to banks, heating companies, energy distribution companies and other monopolies, there is no reason to vote against this bill. I think I have been clear enough, and at least those present in this House have understood what this is about, so I will do everything possible afterwards and everyone has the moral responsibility to their constituents for the way they voted on these texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. I open the debate, you have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had more in mind as a line to Mrs. Manolova, so if she decides, she'll replicate me afterwards. Mrs. Manolova, I want to tell you that this is not how you do it. When a bill is good, you better say that it has been drawn up with the assistance of the non-governmental sector, experts and so on and think about how to support it together and make it happen. Here I will offer you, given what has happened to the proposed and under the GPC: let us use the opportunity to think between the two readings and the proposals between the two readings of the good things that may be proposed to the Commission to be adopted in this House. The same can be said of this Bill. From the plea that has been presented, I am afraid that I have even seen that colleagues were coming out and could follow the same thing that happened to the previous proposal for amendment of the GPC, and in practice to come to a situation where there will be no adoption of any Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, which will deprive us of the possibility of making proposals between the two readings and really some good proposals will simply not happen. My appeal is: let me say a little bit more moderate, I don't know what to call it, but really political statements are political, and when it comes to right and good things, I think we can be purely expert about being a little more serious. My proposals, which I have made, have also been rejected by colleagues from GERB. As you can see, I am not angry, but rather looking for options to propose them again, taking into account opinions that say how to do better, or to persuade colleagues from GERB to support them, and to make them a fact, especially for things that I believe are right. Here I can give you the example of the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. He didn't literally pass for 4-5 votes at first reading. There are ways indeed, let us not escalate unnecessary tensions with politically pure opposition speeches, especially on such important topics that we can actually find a way to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? [[Noise and lines on the right.]] To make a statement there is the national representative Christian Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am joining the appeal of my colleague Slavov. In this regard, I say that, as an expert, we will support the proposed by Mrs Maya Manolova and a group of MPs, a draft amendment to the Law on Private Judicial Contractors. We believe that not entirely the abolition of this institute, namely, such changes will bring justice and bring about the legal framework that should be in place so that citizens do not feel harmed when they are debtors to enforcement proceedings and when they are targeted at forced execution. Indeed, there are many cases that are absurd where the fees for a judicial execution are repeatedly greater than the principal and interest of the obligation of the person concerned. This really needs to be put an end to. Similarly, there is the question of encouraging conscientious debtors who, within the time limit of the call for voluntary enforcement, pay off their obligation. Another question is whether it should be halves, whether it should be two thirds of a debate. In principle, we should encourage such a positive behaviour of the debtor, thereby achieving a balance between the interests of creditors and debtors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u116	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, please come in for the public representative Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think that there is no doubt for any honest MP present in this House that the proposals we are making are justified, fair and should be supported. In fact, to be as honest as possible, I am really amazed by the vote of GERB's parliamentary group on the previous bill. In the presentation, in the debates that happened on the proposed changes to the Civil Procedure Code, there was nothing political, there was nothing immense, there was nothing challenging.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u118	Mrs. Manolova, let's get back to this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u119	Please don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u120	Talk about the bill we're discussing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u121	The bills are linked, Mr. Glauchev. The bills are linked! The subject was taken up by Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u122	You had the opportunity to speak on the previous bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u123	Will you let me speak?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u124	I'll leave you to it if you talk about this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u125	My fellow Members, in insisting on supporting the previous bill, I think that we have done our best to present it calmly, impartially and point out the advantages and disadvantages of the law in force and what we propose. Yeah, we're not saying the bill is perfect. However, in any case, the proposed decisions were supported by absolutely all the parliamentary groups, for which I thank both the Reformers and the Patriotic Front, both the ABB and the BDZ, and the Parliamentary Group of The only ones who cannot swallow their ideological ego and party voting turned out to be GERB MPs. Since I am informed that they have a political decision to vote against, I do not see why I should not say it from the parliamentary platform? Let me be clear! Let one of the lawyers stand up and say why he voted against the GPC and why he will vote against this Bill! Let them explain to their voters tomorrow why they will vote against the reduction of the fees of private court contractors, why they will not vote to overcome the burden of debt and fees on Bulgarian citizens. Why would people vote against becoming slaves of monopolies and shifting under the burden of both energy distribution and heating companies, and banks and mobile operators, and all monopolies, in addition to the fees collected by judicial contractors? There is no common sense in the vote against the vote other than misunderstood party discipline or economic interests. Press from those who benefit at the expense of the citizens, this is a vote on monopolies, on financial terror on Bulgarian taxpayers and Bulgarian citizens. Let me be clear! Moreover, we have witnessed here on a stage in which Mr. Kirilov showed muscles on the Patriotic Front and had to have excuses, including from the parliamentary platform, for speeches from it, which were insufficiently respectful to the honourable President of the Legal Commission. Sorry, that's not how you do it! It is clear that GERB has not changed that they will consciously do nothing good, that the only way is forms of pressure. And that pressure will come from the citizens. You cannot vote against their interests and against your own promises and then expect something different. I am also making a procedural proposal so that I do not go out again on the parliamentary tribune before the vote on the draft laws is made by name examination of the quorum, so that it is clear which MPs of GERB are present, who are.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[GERB lines.]] For saving parliamentary time before the vote, please do a roll call check.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u126	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? I won't. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u127	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I propose that under the roll call check procedure, the second option will be carried out through the parliamentary secretaries so that we do not take away the parliamentary time we are working with.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u128	When we get to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u129	The roll call check is a check of the quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u130	Through the secretaries, read the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u131	To speak, the people representative Danail Kirilov. [[The President Tsetska Tsacheva takes the President's place.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u132	Madam President, honourable Members! The debate so far undoubtedly requires that we clarify the following important things, including the movement of the bills. So far we have listened to some, I would say, extremely unscrupulous but highly populist statements, which is why I recall the following. The bill for amending the Civil Procedure Code was submitted to parliament, according to what I told you, the proposal of the Supreme Court of Cassation, together with the proposal of the Council of Ministers. These were the two important bills that the Parliamentary Permanent Committee on Legal Affairs had to look at on an urgent note. In this procedure, two parliamentary groups saw a convenient procedural opportunity to include, respectively, proposals that were made at the last minute. I'm not saying they don't have that rule of law. They have this right, but since these are proposals in whose preparation fellow lawyers have participated, they are well aware of the history of the problem, they know well how much public debate is required. With this action, they escalated us into a situation that was quickly perceived or blamed. Again, I won't comment on political good faith or dishonesty. Despite this escalation, we looked at the bills in question, supported them, and everyone, in order to have a kind of equal opportunity. However, the flow of bills did not stop. We also currently have subsequent amendments to the Civil Procedure Code. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, I reminded the following, without wanting to expand the debate on this issue. The project under both Ms. Manolova's laws was also a fact in the previous National Assembly, when the majority was different when Mrs. Manolova, besides the Vice-President of the Parliament, led the group for interaction with civil society, with civil society organizations. Although I was not a member of this group at the time, in view of the importance of the Civil Procedure Code, I looked at every opportunity to attend, I would say, to the issues as well. But what happened in the last parliament? In the last parliament, even representatives of the then majority were denied support for amendments in favour of debtors in the Consumer Credit Act. Those who voted differently from the BSP are no longer in the Chamber. They were not supported for participation in this Parliament. At the time, the majority had the perfect opportunity for Mrs. Manolova's bill to be tabled. He was ready in May, and he was ready in June. Come on, in July, it became clear that perhaps the next parliament could not complete its mandate, so very much please do not think immediately, briefly, and delete our political memory. Again, when were you sincere when you did not defend debtors' rights, or now? Yes, we support each of the balanced solutions for establishing the rights of the two main groups involved in this process, and we are clearly aware that the scales must be equal, that we cannot and should not give any more rights to either of these two parties in the process. I would like to say, in conclusion, the following important reason. The measures we are now discussing on Mrs. Manolova's submitted bill in the Law on Private Judicial Contractors are two. But they're not all of them. In the Legal Commission, I even supported symbolically the Law of the "Attack" for the complete annulment of the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, and from here I will request the Law on the CSIs needs more serious repairs, more radical repairs. With two changes, yes, emergency, urgent, more or less we show the audience: My conviction then and now to vote abstention is in the following. Firstly, in the previous paragraph, the second vote is pending, i.e. all political forces will have the opportunity to make proposals between first and second votes. In addition, it is appropriate, with regard to this particular Code, to establish a working group, with participation from both the Master's degree and from everyone. Under the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, the working group formed in the Ministry of Justice completes its work. It's in as wide a format as possible. I declare mine, let's say, a strong conviction, I am obliged to prefer the next government bill, because it is the result of both government policy and wide public and professional discussion. In conclusion, I'd say it's a sin to accuse me of bias. I am accused of being addicted to all the guilds that I almost put them in unfavorable conditions, pursuing a fair legislative solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u133	- What's the line? Mrs. Manolova, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u134	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Mr. Kirilov, your whole statement was a guilty remark, a guilty and not very clear explanation of how you changed your mind to 180 degrees from the meeting of the Legal Committee to the plenary. Honestly, I feel sorry for you. The chair of the Legal Commission cannot spin like a top on topics that are important to Bulgarian citizens. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You can't! You cannot spin because you have not been able to stand before the leadership of your parliamentary group why these changes are important, why these changes are useful, why these changes are justified. If that's how you're gonna make her do anything, even though it's good, just because it's submitted by the opposition to be rejected, you're not gonna be any Legal Commission. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Once again, I would like to say thank you to the patriots who have shown civil valor by tabling bills with regard to private judicial contractors and banks and reformers, both ABB and Ataka and DPS and BDZ. Their MPs showed a civil conscience regarding the need to put order in the manner of robbing citizens of private judicial contractors. Only for GERB economic interests and party prejudices proved more important. And here, while you're waiting for some radical reforms, you still haven't explained why you're not going to support some simple texts that reduce the fees that private court contractors collect. The explanation is one thing because the economic interests are enormous and because obviously you cannot resist them, and you cannot professionally resist your political and party leadership. What you are saying is absolutely false because in the previous parliament, there was a line in interest rates on consumer loans. Also a bold step that did not go smoothly, but there the people we are convinced of what we are proposing have the courage to stand up for it, and you have no courage, you have no professional valor. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u135	On the other hand, you had 23 seconds more than the line time, Mrs. Manolova. Second line? A hole, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u136	Madam President, I do not feel offended by Mrs Manolova's remark, which was intended primarily to do this. Again, I would remind you of the following in the case of interest rates, Mrs. Manolova, you received support from 35 votes from GERB because you did not have so many votes in your ruling majority. Take the vote printout, remember how you went as a cop to check which one of your guys voted and who didn't vote. In this context, how can I tell you, I find no sense and no basis for your claims. Yeah, if someone listens to you now and doesn't know the story, they could probably be fooled. I stress and rely on this... the completion of the work on the codes is coming to an end. Codes are regulations that have greater power in view of the generalising scope and scale of regulation in terms of laws, require more serious and precise work, so I believe that this work is to be done and will take place. Here my colleagues pay attention to the fact that I have not explicitly quoted a letter from the Ministry of Justice regarding their proposal under the Law on Private Judicial Contractors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u137	Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part in the deliberations? Mr. Enchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u138	Madam President, colleagues! I also give my full support to the Act of Ataka and to the proposals of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, made by Mrs. Maya Manolova. It seems to me that the better option is the party of Ataka. Three weeks ago, I had a statement in the form of questions to the Minister of Finance, and once again I will repeat some of my arguments for closing the institution of private court contractors. In the last ten, exactly ten years, we have observed their work, and they have become a threat to the social stability of the state. The pathetic footage that we often see from television screens for forced disposal from the occupied home of defenseless elderly people, of mothers with children, makes me think that it is not about fair enforcement of the law and justice, but about the gangs for wet orders from the Mutrenian times, legalized by the Bulgarian state. I remind you of these pathetic pictures before you press the red button when you have to vote for the party's proposal. Remember something very important: if in today's party GERB, as you declare that you are against the Act of Attack, you are essentially working for the lobby of private judicial contractors. You have already been told before me that in Germany, the practice is the practice of the State has taken full care of this work. It is true that in 2005 on the suggestion of the European Commission and not to forget the World Bank's recommendation, we adopted the changes that introduced this institution. The fact is that this institution, as I said just now, needs to be reformed, reducing the fees, which the Bulgarian Socialist Party's bill proposes, which is also fair. I am in favour of both bills, but it seems to me that it is socially fair to adopt the Law of the Party "Attack" to cut with one blow, with one solution a tumor of the Bulgarian judiciary, I would say, and to restore social justice. I call on you to think of the interests of the victims of Bulgarian citizens, of the socially weak, of those who are in an extremely complicated social situation and are increasing, and as Mrs Manolova said a very good time ago, we are not enough for the terror of the electricity distribution companies, we are not enough for the terror of the banks, but for this terror is added to that of the private judicial contractors. I will vote categorically for the Law of the Party "Attack" and, of course, for the proposal of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u139	They can't both happen at the same time, Mr. Enchev. One of them's for breaking the law. Then what will you change on it if the first proposal is accepted? [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] - What's the line? First line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u140	Madam President, honourable Members! I don't want to take up time, but the work that my colleague said is rather outrageous. What does it mean to get rid of private court contractors because they reminded Mutrenian times? Just as the private contractors are removed, two or three healthy boys will start calling the doorbells to collect the amounts they owe the debtors in a completely different way and in a completely different way that has nothing to do with the law. I shared it with Mr. Todorov and the Commission. It may be that colleagues from Ataka may have picked up some problem, but such radical measures and proposals cannot achieve the results they want. We repeat again: we need a complete repair of the Law, which will most likely be submitted to the Chamber. Therefore, Mrs. Manolova, we will not support your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u141	Second line? Mr. Enchev, you have an opportunity for a back-up. You won't use it. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u142	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, colleagues, the amendments to the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, in itself, also refer to the amendments to the Civil Procedure Code, which have just been supported at first reading. To be honest, I would even support the Party's Law on Attack for the complete annulment of the Private Judicial Contract. We have spoken to them and to a respected lawyer, like Mr. Notev, it is very clear to him that the right is actually the foundation of statehood. To cancel the possibility of implementing judicial decisions is to vote against our own country. As for the fact that there are very serious problems in this Law, that Bulgarian citizens in a very large part are extremely damaged, there is no dispute. We will support the submitted Bill and Mrs Manolova with the clear idea and the idea that between first and second reading the Patriotic Front will make serious efforts to be able to clear to a large extent the handicaps in it, which actually create a sense of injustice throughout the judiciary. My appeal and appeal is to support this Bill so that it can really work for the benefit of Bulgarian society. Dear colleagues, when the private judicial contractor knocked on the door of any citizen, he did not ask him which political formation he belongs to and what sympathies he had with which party. In fact, he is a citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria. We are here to work precisely for the benefit of Bulgarian citizens. That's what I can tell you, and I think common sense will prevail in voting on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u143	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u144	Dear colleagues, dear Mrs. Tsacheva! I repeat, my proposal is already in front of you, as President, that in connection with the forthcoming vote on the two bills, I would like a roll call check on the quorum in plenary. The bill is important enough to bring together a sufficient number of MPs to say "to" or "not" to this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u145	Colleagues, according to art. 49, para. 3 The Chair may carry out, on his own initiative or only once, at the request of a parliamentary group, an examination of the quorum by roll-call reading the names of the Members of the National Assembly or by counting the Members of the National Assembly's Secretaries. In this case, we have made two procedural proposals. The first at the time was Mrs. Maya Manolova for a name check of the quorum by reading the names of the MPs. There is a second procedural proposal for this examination to take place by counting the MPs from the Secretaries of the National Assembly. Our Rules of Procedure do not contain an explicit provision to state how it should be handled in the specific situation of two possible alternative procedures at the same time. We could only do this with a deliberate decision supported in plenary. [[BSP LB.]] You're welcome, Mrs. Manolova. [[BSP LB.]] Colleagues, read! I'm reading you verbatim!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u146	Honourable Members, Madam President! There is clear parliamentary practice in cases where a parliamentary group requests a name check of the quorum in connection with an upcoming vote, it shall be carried out by roll-call reading the names of the Members of the National Assembly and the rejection of those who are in plenary. We've done this in the previous parliament when we had problems with the quorum, and none of us allowed ourselves to make any other interpretations. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, I have clearly asked that such an examination be carried out in relation to the upcoming vote of the two bills by roll-call reading the names of the MPs. I ask you not to set precedents in parliamentary practice, but to do this examination, as has been done by many presidents of the National Assembly before you and in cases where they have enjoyed it, and in cases where this has not been particularly pleasant for their parliamentary group. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] Those are the rules, as they have been followed, and I suggest that we not set precedents, but that we continue as it was in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, since we've established that on the left they haven't read all the Rules or read as much as they want, I'm going to withdraw my proposal. Let's count by name, but from now on know that you have this opportunity and in a full room when you want to waste time, it won't be possible to get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u149	Aidoan Mutalib Ali-here. Ayhan Ahmed Etem is absent. Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev- absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov-- here. Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Ana Georgieva Barakova- here Angel Petrov Naydenov- absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev- here Antony Antonyev Trenchev- here Atanas Zafirov- Zafirov is absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Atanasov- absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov- absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov- here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov here Boyka Grozeva Marinska- here Boris Borisov Stanimirov- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov- here Borislav Mihailov Borisov- absent Borislav Rajchov Milanov- absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev- here Bunyamin Hussein Hassan-here. Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov- absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov- absent Valentin Stefanov Vasilev- absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Velizar Penkov Enchev- here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov- here Vili Mladenov Lilkov- absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Volen Nikolov Siderov- absent Vyara Mihaylova Tzerovska- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Simeonova Georgieva- here Georg Danielov Georgiev- here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev- here Georgi Ivanov Andonov- here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov- here Georgi Nikolov Nedev- absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev- here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov- here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov- absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen here. Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov- here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova- here Diana Ivanova Yordanova- here Dimitar Angelov Gorov- absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov- here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov- here Dimitar Krumov Tanev- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov- absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov- absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev- absent Dimitar Hristov Zhelev here Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov- here Doncho Spasov Baxanov- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa- here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Emil Dimitrov Reinov- absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Erdingh Ismail Hajrula-here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov- here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov- here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov- absent Ivan Penkov Ivanov- absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Stoev Cholakov- here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov- here Ilian Sashov Todorov- here Iliya Yankov Iliev- absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva- here Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova- absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov- absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova- here Cyril Andonov Kotev- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin is absent. Cyril Dobrev Dobrev- here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev- absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev- here Kircho Georgiev Karagyozov- here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Korman Yakubov Ismailov- here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov- here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- absent Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov- absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- absent Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov- here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka- here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Kancho Yanev Filipov- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov- here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov- here Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov- here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan-here Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva- here Mariana Georgieva Todorova- here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov- absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova- here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Method Borisov Andreev- absent Mehmet Umer Ataman here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova- absent Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Mithat Sabri Metin is missing Mikhail Raykov Mikov- absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov- here Musa Cemal Palev here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- here. Mustafa Fahri Ahmed here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski- here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev- here Nevin Halil Hassan-- here. Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Neno Hristov Vlaikov- here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski- here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Petar Vladislavov Slavov- here Petar Georgiev Kadiev- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Petar Ivanov Petrov- here Petar Kostadinov Petrov- here Petar Pandushev Chobanov- absent Peter Hristov Bekov- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova- here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova- here Radan Milenov Kanev- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Rumen Dinev Zhelev- absent Rumen Ivanov- here Rumen Marinov Yonchev- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- absent Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev- here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov- here Svilen Filipov Ivanov- here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova- here Slavi Penchev Binev- absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova- here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov- here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev- here Stefan Lambov Danailov- absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihaylova- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - absent Tasko Mihailov Ermenkov- here Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev- here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova- here Philip Stefanov Popov here Hamid Barry Hamid here. Hassan Ahmed Ademov- here Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Georgiev Todorov- here Hüseyin Hassan Hafuzov- here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov- here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov- absent Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska- here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev- here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev- here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush is absent Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- absent Yavor Iliev Haytov- here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov- here Ianko Alexandrov Jankov- here There is a quorum. We can move on. I have completed the list by name, as the request was not only in view of the quorum but also of the present MPs to see who will vote in the forthcoming vote. Add the colleagues who have entered further to announce the number of MPs in the plenary. [[Applauds the Vice-Presidents.]] There are 174 Members of Parliament in plenary. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill to repeal the Law on Private Judicial Contractors with an I.D. No 454-01-6, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. In the First Voting Report, the Committee on Legal Affairs proposes that the National Assembly do not support the bill of First Voting. We vote. They voted 145 MPs: for 7, against 88, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. Revoting demands, negative votes? I won't. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Private Judicial Contractors with an I.D. No 554-01-28, submitted by Maya Manolova and a group of MPs on 11 February 2015. The Committee on Legal Affairs proposes to the National Assembly to support the Bill of First Voting. Voting mode. They voted 145 MPs: 141, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] Mrs. Manolova, you can stand up and accept the applause. [[The National Representative Maya Manolova becomes and addresses the House. Applause, noise and lines by GERB.]] Thank you. Here's a negative vote. [[Noise and glad tidings in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Manolova, I voted against it specifically so that I could go out and tell you that everything you said during the presentation of the point was complete fiction. You have seen that there is no political decision of GERB not to support you. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u151	Moving on to the next point. As under the programme, the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications is scheduled for tomorrow as point one, and the election of the President of the Court of Auditors will be point two for tomorrow, we are now going to: Point 7 "ANNUAL RESTRUCTURING FOR THE QUESTIONS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is the importer. Here you are, Mr. Tanchev, to brief us on the report and the draft decision. To remind the Members of the National Assembly that the procedure is under art. 114 and next to our rules. In accordance with art. 114: (1) The Council of Ministers shall submit to the National Assembly the Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the process of taking a decision of the European Union within 7 days of its adoption. (2) The President of the National Assembly shall distribute the Annual Programme under para. 1 of the Standing Committees. Within 3 weeks of its receipt, the Standing Committees, with the exception of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, shall prepare their proposals for the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme on European Union Affairs, taking into account the European Commission's Work Programme for the relevant year. (3) Within 14 days of the expiry of the term under para. 2 The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, taking into account the proposals of the other Standing Committees, shall draw up a draft annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues. The annual work programme shall contain a list of the draft acts of the institutions of the European Union on which the National Assembly supervises and controls. The draft annual work programme shall be discussed and adopted by the National Assembly. This is yet to be debated and voted on at the moment, honourable Members. Mr. Tanchev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u152	Thank you, Madam President, for this brief clarification to remind us what art. 114. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, At its regular meeting held on 18 March 2015, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on the basis of art. 114, Chapter XI of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly discussed and adopted a draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2015. In the meeting of the Commission took part: Mrs. Kristina Hitrova, Director of the Directorate of the European Union Coordination in the Administration of the Council of Ministers; Mrs. Dennitsa Nedeva and Mrs. Teodora Karamarinova, State experts in the same Directorate. The draft programme is designed in accordance with the priorities of the Triple Presidency of the Council of the EU, the priorities set out in the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union (2015).), No 502-00-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29.01.2015, the Working Programme of the European Commission for 2015 and the proposals made by the Permanent Parliamentary Committees of the National Assembly. In its 2015 Work Programme, the European Commission proposes 23 new initiatives in line with the ten priorities in the Political Guidelines of President Jean-Claude Juncker presented to the European Parliament. The planned new initiatives are in the following ten areas: 1. New incentives for jobs, growth and investment. 2. Connected digital single market. 3. A sustainable energy union with a future-oriented climate change policy. 4. A deeper and fairer internal market with an enhanced industrial base. 5. A deeper and fairer economic and monetary union. 6. A sensible and balanced free trade agreement with the United States. 7. A space of justice and fundamental rights built on mutual trust. 8. Towards the creation of a new migration policy. 9. A stronger player on the world stage. 10. A union of democratic change. The annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union (2015) has been accepted in the performance of art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, according to which the Council of Ministers informs the National Assembly in advance and gives an account of its actions to participate in the development and adoption of acts of the European Union. Taking into account the Commission's agenda and the programme of the Triple Presidency of the Council of the EU, Bulgaria plans to focus its efforts on several high priority areas for the country: - promoting economic growth and employment; - accession to the Schengen area; - solidarity management of migration; - European Energy Union; - Single European digital market; - enlargement of the European Union. The following considerations were also taken into account in the preparation of the Annual Work Programme of the National Assembly on the EU issue: - checks on compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality of the European legislative proposals included in the EU GWP (2015) will be carried out by active exercise of the powers of the National Assembly under Protocol 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; - the adoption of the new work programme does not interrupt the monitoring and control process of the draft acts of the institutions of the European Union included in the previous annual work programmes of the National Assembly on EU matters which have not been examined or finally adopted; - the annual work programme priority is to include draft acts that are legislative and enable the National Assembly to effectively monitor the government's participation on the European agenda, as well as to participate in political dialogue with the European institutions; - where necessary, to the current Work Programme, the National Assembly committees have the opportunity to examine other documents of the European institutions (messages, reports, white and green books, etc.) outside the current work programme. After the discussion the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds took place on the basis of art. 114, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose with 12 votes for the National Assembly to adopt the following Decision for the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs (2015).): ....................................... Forty-third National Assembly DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 114, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Approves the following Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs (2015);): Annual Work Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs (2015) The National Assembly shall be chaired by: - the need to take active action to overcome the negative consequences of the economic crisis, increase the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy and achieve high levels of employment; - the importance of the European acts on the socio-economic development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the achievement of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the implementation of the Europe 2020 Strategy; - the aim of establishing the European Union as a single economic area and as an area of freedom, security and justice; - the need to strengthen the European Union's global role as a defender of democratic values and human rights, of sustainable social and environmental development; - respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the European legislative process, decide to exercise its powers under art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by subjecting the procedure of parliamentary supervision and control of Chapter Eleven of Art. Article 114 117 including the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following activities of the European institutions and European initiatives: 1. A mid-term review of the Europe 2020 strategy; In the field of legal matters: 2. Proposal for an interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. In the area of freedom, security and justice: 3. A legislative initiative to complete the accession of the European Union to the European Convention on Human Rights. 4. A legislative or non-legal initiative on the European Migration Programme. 5. A non-legal initiative on the European Security Programme. 6. Proposal by the Commission for a Council Regulation establishing a European Public Prosecutor's Office. 7. Initiatives related to the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Schengen area. 8. Initiatives in the field of counterterrorism: - discussion on the possibility of amending European legislation (the Framework Decision on combating terrorism) with a view to introducing adequate sanctions and opportunities for the prosecution of terrorists; - EU Directive on passenger reservation data (PNR Directive); - initiatives to improve the technical characteristics of European systems and a database in case of a clear and detailed follow-up procedure for actions following the establishment of foreign fighters. 9. A multiannual strategic programme of the Union in the area of justice and internal order for the period 2015-2019 following the expiry of the Stockholm Programme 2010-2014 (non-legal act). 10. Initiative for............................................................................................................ - a proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing an Entry/Exit System (EES) to register the entry and exit data of third-country nationals crossing the external borders of the EU Member States; - a proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a Programme for registered passengers (RTP). In the field of finance: 11. Capital Market Union "Action plan to improve the financing of the economy through more efficient market financing instruments, including work to build a framework for high-quality securitisation. 12. A framework for solving the problems of financial institutions that are not banks. 13. Proposal for a Directive in order to provide for the mandatory exchange of information in relation to cross-border regimes. 14. Action plan on efforts to combat tax evasion and tax fraud, including a communication on a renewed approach to corporate taxation in the single market in the context of global development. In the field of economics and the internal market: 15. A package of measures to deepen economic and monetary union. 16. Investment plan for Europe: Follow-up legislative measures. 17. The Digital Single Market Package (CEP). 18. A strategy for the internal market for goods and services. 19. Commercial and investment strategy for jobs and growth. In the field of labour and social policy: 20. New incentives for jobs, growth and investment: promoting the attraction to the labour market and employability. 21. Monitoring of the Youth Guarantee at European level within the European Semester in 2015 22. Reforming the network of European employment services with a view to improving access to employment opportunities abroad, the quality of consultancy activities and extending the scope of schemes for young workers. In the field of external action: 23. Communication on the European Neighbourhood Policy. In the field of transport: 24. A package of aviation measures. In the field of climate, energy and the environment: 25. A strategic framework for the energy union. 26. Communication on the path to Paris - a multilateral response to climate change. 27. Proposal for a Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment and functioning of a market stability reserve under the EU scheme for greenhouse gas emissions trading and amending Directive 2003/87/EC. 28. Legislative proposals for implementing the European Union Climate and Energy Policy Framework for the period 2020 to 2030 In the field of agriculture: 29. Proposal for a Regulation replacing Regulation (EC) No is amended as follows: 30. A review of the decision-making process on GMOs. "Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u153	Mr. Tanchev, please offer the name of the Decision, it should be promulgated. Read the very name on top of the Decision as an addition to voting on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u154	Decision on the adoption of the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u155	Thank you. The debate is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u156	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Bulgaria is already in the ninth year of its membership in the European Union, and this is the fourth National Assembly, which is already functioning within the European Union and we should expect that the interest in European issues should be increased and the capacity of the National Assembly to increase from the point of view of its ability to actively participate in this process and to assist and direct the government on all important issues for Bulgaria, on which national positions should be defended. Unfortunately, I personally observe the reverse process. The very fact that today we are commenting on this programme in front of a half-empty hall shows only that somehow the National Assembly does not realise the importance of this problem. I will also say that for the first time the Prime Minister of Bulgaria did not come to present to the National Assembly the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union for 2015. Something that I think violates a good tradition from the previous years. So today, our parliamentary group and I will personally save ourselves the bigger themes that we were going to put to the discussion with the Prime Minister, and I will focus a little more on what is being offered to us now. If the Prime Minister had come, perhaps we could have talked a little more about key topics which are not directly within the powers of the National Assembly, but are extremely important for what Bulgaria looks like in the European Union, how it protects its interests, and also, above all, how it formulates them. From the so proposed programme, which we notice, we are adopting at the end of March and, in fact, the first quarter of this programme has already expired, a rather bureaucratic approach to this topic and a formalism both by the European Affairs and Control Committee of European Funds and by many of the other committees, which either did not offer their own topics on which they believe the National Assembly should work, or offered topics that do not give particularly much added value. From this list of initiatives that we see, however, it is more important how they will be implemented once they are adopted. I am afraid that for the most part they will become subject to possible consideration in some committees, I hope that all of them will pass through the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. However, as far as I know the style and the way of work in this National Assembly, many of them will probably not reach the plenary at all and will not become positions of the National Assembly and will be in support or direction of the government and ministers who will stand up for the Bulgarian positions and post-factum will find certain facts, and this will not help us in any way. Either way, I'm gonna miss some of the questions that, as I said, we were gonna ask. But it is very important for us to add two topics to this Decision Project. One of them was placed in the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds without being voted on without being accepted or rejected. We see today that the Commission's opinion does not include this topic that we are proposing in the part of the External Action Service. We propose to enter there, as it is also formulated in the Annual Programme, which came from the government, to add: the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. I hardly need to comment to you that this is a key topic for the whole European Union, a key topic for Bulgaria and it is incomprehensible that it is not present in the draft Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. I also believe that since the enlargement of the European Union is referred to as a priority topic by the Bulgarian government, it is appropriate that this topic be present. This is one of the topics Mr. Tanchev himself listed at the presentation of the project in the Committee on European Affairs. I also believe that, in the part of the external action, we can put a more general wording: the enlargement of the European Union. This should be one of the topics that the Bulgarian National Assembly through the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, through the Committee on Foreign Policy and possibly other committees to monitor within this year. So I am making a formal proposal.. You will judge, Madam President, whether to vote separately or together, but to include: the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership and the Enlargement of the European Union. It will largely depend on how the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria will vote on the proposed project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u157	You offer them respectively as a t. 24 et seq. 25, the others will go down if these proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u159	Just one remark, Mr. Vigenin. The procedure under art. 114, which I explicitly recalled, citing and quoting the Rules directly, does not include a presentation by the Prime Minister. So your line about the Prime Minister wasn't correct. Are there any lines to Mr. Vigenin's statement? Mr. Tanchev has a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Vigenin, this is a document that is a work in progress " at any moment we can add or reject and make new proposals. What I have asked in the Commission is for these proposals to pass through the relevant committees to come to us - there is no problem with adding them to a subsequent stage, but I am not convinced that it is in plenary that Members of Parliament have the expertise to take such a decision. I do not think that we need to vote today in this way, and these proposals can come through the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u161	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. Second line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u162	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, as I would say that you have made a reply to me, Madam President, I will start, however, by saying that I do not claim that the Prime Minister was obliged to come. I said it broke a good tradition. You know, there were conditions for this to happen last week, it's a shame it didn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u163	There's a different procedure. I'm sorry to be in the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u164	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u165	It's a completely different procedure. The other procedure will take place.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u166	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u167	The two have nothing to do with each other, they are dealt with in a different order in the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u168	Okay, that's a good point. If it happens, it'll be fine. I'm just saying that it's usually good for the other procedure to precede the current one. Dear Mr. Tanchev, I do not think it requires who knows what expertise or special knowledge to be able to judge that the transatlantic trade and investment partnership is one of the key topics of the European Union and Bulgaria this year. So, including this agreement in the National Assembly's programme, I think it is absolutely logical and it is not required to go through committees again. This proposal, made today, quite calmly, should be supported. Also with regard to the enlargement of the European Union, we, as a country which is recently a member of the European Union, know best how this process is going, that it is year-round, I would say, and for Bulgaria, which is a country neighbouring three countries of the European Union, and is a country in which the government has held this topic as a priority, should be included in its programme and this topic. So I call on the Members of the National Assembly to support these two proposals. There is no need for new procedures, a new passage through committees. Let us include it now so that there is full support for this Project in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-25.u169	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Are there any other MPs willing to participate? Mr. Veliv wants the floor, but the time for today's plenary session has passed, there is no request for its extension. Here we will break the debate on this item on the agenda, we will continue on tomorrow's plenary day, after we debate and vote on the set as respectively points 1 and 2. I'm adjourning the plenary session. Tomorrow, regular 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
