ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear Members of Parliament, as you know, today we are holding an extraordinary plenary session with three items on the agenda: - a second vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016; - a second vote on the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2016; and - second vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. Before we go to point one, one message: On 30 November 2015 in the National Assembly with IC. No 527-00-9 and No 527-00-10 have received two requests from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov to give permission to arouse criminal persecution against the MP Volen Nikolov Siderov. The same were made in connection with pre-trial proceedings No 52-54/2013 of the Sofia Public Prosecutor's Office and in pre-trial proceedings No 39/2012 according to the description of the Specialized Department (SO) of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, prosecutor's file 59-55/2011 according to the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office for crimes committed by the National Representative, respectively under art. 325, para. 2 in relation to para. 1 of the Penal Code and under art. 131, para. 2, proposal 4 in relation to art. 130, para. 2 of the Penal Code of First Pre-trial Procedure; and of a crime committed under art. 325, para. 2 in relation to para. 1 of the Criminal Code of the Second Pre-trial Procedure. By letters of 30 November 2015, prepared and signed by me, the MP Mr. Siderov was informed of the requests received. The letters are in the Office. They have not been received personally by him or by a representative of the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" so far. The requests of the Prosecutor General will be sent to the People's Representative of the e-mail and to the Parliamentary Group will be provided in paper form together with the full volume of the attached materials, in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. According to the amendments to our Rules of Procedure from today, the five-day period during which the people's representative may give his or her own written consent to arousal of prosecution against him. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedural proposal and I believe that the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria should know who, what, when and how it adopts this budget. In this regard, I am making a procedural proposal that the debates and the vote on points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda be broadcast directly on BNT and BNR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u3	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put the procedural proposal to the vote. They voted 134 MPs: 38, Against 49, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to: SECOND READING OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH CACUS FOR 2016 Reporter at the second reading "Mrs. Yordanova."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u4	Dear Madam President, I ask first for a procedure for the admission of Dr. Glinka Komitov the Governor of the National Health Insurance said.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u5	Colleagues, we are voting on the procedural proposal. Vote 128 MPs: 121, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, please invite the guest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u6	On 18 November 2015, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the second vote on the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016, No 502-01-88, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015, adopted on the first vote on 18 November 2015. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. [[(Noise and lines:) Not heard, louder!)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u7	We expect you to report the texts higher. Colleagues, speeches on the name of the Law? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the importer for the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 123 MPs: 121, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u8	Under art. 1 has a proposal of the MPs Emil Raynov, Ivan Ibrishimov, Georgi Gokov, Dora Yankova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. The following amendments are made to Section II: 1. in line 1.1.3. the number of payments for health insurance and social security is replaced by the number of payments for health insurance. 2. in row 1.1.3.1. "Health insurance payments for primary outpatient medical care' is replaced by "200 017'; 3. in row 1.1.3.2. "Health insurance payments for specialized outpatient medical care (including for complex dispensary (ambulatory) monitoring) " (the number 4. in row 1.1.3.3. The number of..123 000. is replaced by.143 5. in row 1.1.3.4. "Health insurance payments for medical and diagnostic activity' is replaced by "90 441'; 6. in row 1.3. "Reserv', including for unforeseen and urgent costs, "the number' is replaced by "the number'; "the number' is replaced by "the number'; "the number' is replaced by "the number'; "the number' is replaced by "the number'; it is replaced by "the number'; it is replaced by "the number'; it is The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Yonchev and group: ..................................................... 1.1.3.2. "Health insurance payments for specialized outpatient medical care (including for complex dispensary (ambulatory) monitoring) " (the number - in t. 1.1.3.4. Health insurance payments for medical-diagnostic activity. The number is changed to.............................................................. is changed - in t. 1.1.3.7. Health insurance payments for hospital medical care. The number of the hospital medical care....is changed to..1 537 784. - in t. 1.3. "Reserv, including for unforeseen and urgent costs, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Hasan Ademov, Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Dzhevdet Chakarov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 1. In para. 1 - the number - row I Revenues and transfers - Line 1. Health insurance incomes - the number - row 1.1 Health contributions 2. In para. 2: - row II Costs and transfers - row 1.1 Current costs - the number of the number 877 445 is replaced by the number 977 445. - row 1.1.1 Staff costs - row 1.1.3 Health insurance payments - row 1.1.3.1 Health insurance payments for primary outpatient medical care - row 1.1.3.2 Health insurance payments for specialized outpatient medical care (including for complex dispensary (ampulator) observation, the number - row 1.1.3.3 dental health insurance payments - row 1.1.3.4 Health insurance payments for medical and diagnostic assistance the number..70 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1, as in para. 2 in column 2 of row 1.1.3.5. after the words "dietary foods' the words "for special medical purposes' shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. The debate is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in it to give a sign. Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u10	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, Mr Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, after a whole year of talking about reform in the sector, after a whole year of talking about something that was supported by everyone that part of the activities that are in hospital care will be taken out in outpatient care, after a whole year of talking about the leading role of prevention, dispanserization, after a whole year of talking about the problems in dental care, that it is underfunded, at one point we see in the budget how the numbers are exactly the same as this year. I mean, for the next year, all those things that were spoken of as policies are gone because they're not financially secured. What we are proposing is to increase the values for general practitioners by 20 million. You're gonna say, "Why?" That's why, in order for there to be more prevention, there should be dispensation. I see Dr. Shishkov looking over here. Why is there no dispensation and prophylaxis for prostate cancer in men? This is something that has been very important lately. All this must be provided by means. Secondly, 20 million for specialized outpatient care, as well as 20 million for research. Aren't we all aware that when patients don't have the famous coupons, they go to the hospital for the research? Even for the tests that are needed for TELK, they're going back to the hospital. What prevents us from raising money for research so that these things can be done in outpatient care? When we talk about dental care, do none of us know that 97% of children under the age of 7 have four caries, by the age of 18 have seven caries; how between 22 and 24 years each Bulgarian has a minimum of minus 2 permanent teeth; how do they have up to 65 years of minimum 17 teeth? And when it is said that the sector was the best, because it had long since passed into private hands, I specify that people have no means to cover up their basics. I see the smiles of colleagues who do not care about this, but I recall the World Bank's report on personal payments in Bulgaria is over 50% with average European 20%. All this leads, however, colleagues, to: every year 4% of the Bulgarian population falls below the poverty line. So when we talk about next year's budget, when there should be policies aimed at the health of the nation, this needs to be secured by financial means. And this is something that we from BSP left Bulgaria propose to increase the funds in outpatient care for better health care. I hope that you will support us, because I see that much of the proposals and other colleagues are in this direction. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u11	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dr. Komitov! Our proposal under art. 1 is an increase in income from insurance contributions and transfers by 100 million. The arguments for this proposal relate to at least a few circumstances. First of all, next year you propose: growth of gross domestic product by 2.1%; growth of the employed is recorded in the budget of the state social security by 10 thousand. The guy. Minimum insurance incomes increased by 8.6%. The average insurance income is increased by 30 BGN. The minimum wage from 380 to 420 BGN. The standards in the education system are increased by 5.7%. The Fund is increased in the Office of Customs, in the Social Ministry, in the three agencies, in the National Revenue Agency, which implies a serious increase in revenues in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. Moreover, last year's criminalisation of the deliberate non-payment of social contributions, including health contributions, also suggests an increase in the revenue side of the budget. The big problem in this proposal is not the proposal itself, but the fact that 20.5% of the expenditure in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is for outpatient care. 47.8% is for hospital care, and for medicines it's 27%. The aim of our proposal is to challenge the MPs, including the importers, and the Minister of Health, in some way to change this ratio in the direction of increasing the costs of extra-hospital aid. Because the Minister of Health has repeatedly stated that the idea of reform is part of the activities of hospital care to shift to the outpatient, which, however, implies a change in this ratio. We have all agreed that this is the money for health. Whoever is Minister of Finance, Minister of Health, despite the desire, there is no way that the funds in the sector will be more than those laid down in the current budget. Every year, a few million dollars goes up. The question is how to distribute within this resource. With our proposals under art. 1 We propose to change this ratio by several steps in favour of outpatient care, because it is clear to everyone that hospital care is the one that is more expensive. Access to hospital aid implies an increase in financial resources in this sector in the hospital sphere. Each year we report monthly for 2015 at least 130 million expenses per month for hospital care! Which means one budget within 1 billion and 600, and the current budget provides for 1 billion and 300 million. In other words, the entire financing story suggests that we should fit into this budget. However, no matter how much we increase the funds for the sector, as we go through this structure, these funds, albeit increased, do not give a better financial result. We in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms believe that without demonopolism, without changing the structure of the sector................................... no matter how much the funds increase through this structure, through this model of health insurance does not lead to a better result. We therefore propose a change in the ratio of funds and this is an idea that we advocate over several budgets. Moreover, when discussing the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015, the Minister himself intended to increase the funds for outpatient care. Unfortunately, however, this is not happening. With 3 million increases the funds in the budget of hospital aid as far as primary outpatient assistance is concerned; with 11 and a half million I am done, Madam President, for specialized assistance, but this is not enough in any case. [[The Presidents shall change the sitting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u13	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Come in for a procedure, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct by insisting that those who read the report read clearly, clearly and understandablely. It's an extremely important Law! If you can't read like this, to put another person, to be replaced with one that can read like this. I'm not gonna take a moaning from this tribune and a misunderstanding of what's being read! In fact, I wonder if the stenographers understand what's being read. This is a procedure in the manner of holding.. to read clearly, clearly and understandable. Otherwise, in each article, I will request a procedure in the manner of conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u15	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. It's more like the way you read it, not the way you keep it. [[Happy tidings.]] Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? Here you go, Dr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u16	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Dr. Komitov! I would like to add to the arguments why we are making our proposals, the arguments that Dr. Ademov said. This is art. 1, in which are the revenue and expenditure part of the budget and exactly in the expenditure section we expected to see these reforms, which, as Dr. Raynov said, were talked about a long time ago. It would be unreasonable and it would be populism to ask even an opposition party for an absolute increase in the NHIF budget, given that the general budget is set: growth of gross domestic product by 2.1%, inflation by 0.5 and the health budget by 4.2%. That's why it's obvious, and I didn't hear any analyst ask for the absolute increase. However, we do not see the so-called 'healthy reforms' in the area, not being noticed in any segment. Declarations for taking out activities from the hospital in outpatient medical care, declarations for strengthening the role of personal doctors, preventive reviews, the management of the scheduled reception, which was discussed in the reform, the conclusion of NHIF contracts with health institutions according to the health needs that were mentioned in the new Health Insurance Act, and furthermore, the security of the basic package......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... To this question: how are we going to make reforms, provided that these details are not visible, the Minister answered in the Health Commission that this is the envisaged reserve of over 300 million. In general, in the Health Insurance Act, in art. 25 is described that this money is for unforeseen and urgent needs. It's ridiculous. It's strategically wrong for the health care fund reserve to be used for health reforms. That's what our proposals are for. As you can see, we offer an increase in cost by 100 million, with 2 million for staff, 25 million for hospital care, 18.5 million for specialized outpatient care, 35 million for dental care and 19.5 million for medical diagnostic activities. One clamp opens to dental help in particular. Our offer is the highest there, because it's a special case. In 2000, the share of dental aid in the general budget of the Health Insurance Fund was 9%. Now according to the calculations of specialists, mostly of the Bulgarian dental union, this share is only 4.7%. The dental union proposes to increase by just as much as we propose this budget to ensure at least one activity. We have it in mind, we are reading the poor condition of this segment, namely for filling or extraction. In the patient package over 18 years, we propose that the budget increase by 35 million. We offer and ask you to support our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u17	Thank you, dear Dr. Kardzhaliev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's nice to see that DPS colleagues have also accepted the principles and ideas of the Patriotic Front. [[Noise and laughter.]] Turning them into patriots is a very good thing. It's nice when you hear from the DPS that you have to demonize the Health Insurance Fund. The bad news is they haven't done anything in years in that direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u19	That's what you think.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u20	The fact is, the Cashier continues to be a monopoly. Unfortunately, the steps that are being taken are thanks to our proposals and they are mostly in the direction of strict control, which led for the first time the Casa to end without these 400.500 million deficits. For the first time in years!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u21	On which proposal are you speaking, Mr. Bayraktarov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u22	Under art. One, I'm speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u23	On what offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u24	On the proposal of Mr. Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov. Now you've taken me 20 seconds to add them. However, let us continue on the concrete proposal of colleagues Hasan Ademov and Dr. Tuncher Kardzhaliev. You, fellow Members, want a 100 million increase in the cost of 3 billion. 204 million at 3 billion. 304 million. You are both MPs with an internship and you know that under the Law on Legislative Acts you must, first of all, indicate the source of these funds. I am even embarrassed to explain to you that 70% of the health insurance fund's budget represents income from health insurance contributions and the other 30% is from transfers. Here is the question: Are you ready to provide that 100 million additional costs today, considering the budget for state social security, to raise by another 70 BGN. tobacco manufacturers' health insurance base? Because there's one source that's pulling back the revenue section. This is one of the sources and you know it well. So far, the explanations are in the field of populism. Personally, by the way, I would support an increase in the budget of dentists, dentists, because there is indeed an example of a small demonopolision in the monopoly itself. We must support these steps, especially the dental union and dentists in this direction, because they point to the right path and the right direction in which this closed one should go at all, and unfortunately, an underfunded system. From there on, unfortunately, I don't see it, we've discussed it in the Health Commission, where the other 80 million funds can come from. We have proposals, and I hope that they will be filled with one over-the-counter of increased collection, of health insurance contributions, but still when we get to art. 4, there we will enter into the more serious debate and the question will arise: and there we will cover hospitalization with what? It is good that when making speeches, they are justified by numbers and sources of these revenues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Mr. Bayraktarov! We in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, if you get familiar with what we have done over the years, will see that we are the only ones who have submitted a bill which has not been passed, which has been rejected, precisely on the topic of demonopolism. Because over all these 15 years, we have argued that with one source of funding, in the absence of competition between the funding bodies, there is no way to achieve better quality, there is no way to achieve better efficiency of the funds spent. We have never had a leading role in the Ministry of Health, we have never had an independent majority that can push through this type of reform of the healthcare system. You must understand that! As far as revenues are concerned, I told you in the Committee on Health and in my speech that there are at least 9 sources of funding. I'll add a few more to them. In 2016 operational programs from the new programming period started. Only in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, you know very well that measures and schemes of 560 million have been revealed. 160 million are expected to be paid out only next year, which means more employed, higher incomes and higher income in the insurance system. Next, the measures we adopted in the following year are also leading to higher revenues. What the Minister of Health has proposed and the National Assembly adopted the next year is a tighter and tighter regime of access to insurance rights. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Therefore, the National Assembly voted on these texts in order to have more revenue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u27	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Bajraktarov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, Dr. Ademov's reply was a finding confirming my thesis and speech, but naturally, and a demonstration of Jesuitism. Because, Dr. Ademov, until just a year ago, you were in charge. I will recall: Triple Coalition BSP, DPS and Attack. You had an absolute majority to do any kind of reform. Until five years ago, you were in a triple coalition with more than 170 MPs majority - BSP, DPS, NDSV. Not demonopolis, but you could have reformed this sector in such a way that today we wouldn't be talking at all. But, oddly enough, I've looked into when your bill was offered. Strangely, they are offered at a time when you know there is no one to accept them. That's the truth. It's the truth! You were a minister in the previous government, you haven't forgotten, I suppose. There was a health minister who spent more time on the beaches in Pomorie instead of thinking about health care. That's the truth, and you know it, and from now on everything else is de-ma-go-gi-ya. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u29	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Emil Raynov, Ivan Ibrishimov, Georgi Gokov, Dora Yankova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: 20, against 49, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Rumen Yonchev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 119 MPs: 26, against 46, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Hasan Ademov, Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Devdet Chakarov, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 117 MPs: 23, against 40, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 1, as in para. 2 column 2 of row 1.1.3.5 after the words "dietary foods' is added "for special medical purposes'. They voted 121 MPs: for 101, against 20, no abstentions. Article 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u30	Article 2? a proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Rumen Yonchev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: A new paragraph shall be set up: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 26, para. 1, t. 1 of the Insurance Act, the word "Ten" is replaced by "One" and "Nine." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u31	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Rumen Yonchev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 112 MPs: 5 against 49, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 2. Vote 108 MPs: 106 against 1, abstention 1. Article 2 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u32	Article 3? a proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Rumen Yonchev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3, para. 2 the text as well as the terms and conditions for their application in para. The following entry is inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 concerning the The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hasan Ademov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 - Al. 1 drop; - Al. 2 to be dropped; - Al. 3 becomes para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u33	Statements? Here you go, Dr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we offer para. 1 and 2 drop out because they continue to regulate a serious problem in Bulgarian healthcare, namely the limitation. Here I am referring to the regulatory standards for outpatient medical care and limitation in hospitals. Limiting shows its wickedness, its inadequacy and the ability to distort the health insurance model in the Republic of Bulgaria in recent years, as well as the free choice of the patient. Even this year at this stage, as far as I know, on the basis of this vice, there are over 30 or more million unpaid activities, notice that there are objectively performed medical activities, objectively performed services. However, this method also does something else, namely trace and facilitate a very unfair for patients modeling the preferred, good hospitals, those who earn the patient's trust with quality, given this situation, are punished. We have also always been against limiting the free choice of the patient. This fact is distorting the model, as I said, namely, the model is no longer the money follow the patient and the patient follows the money. If this article acts together with the next article. 4, para. 1, t. 1 (b), it is entirely possible to have the following hypothetical but also comical, ridiculous situation, embodying that butaphor, which we were talking about, called a "health reform" "at an exhausted limit by type of medical care," if the medical institution refuses admission under the basic package, according to the Health Insurance Act, this health care facility will be sanctioned if there is a signal for this. Conversely, if, despite the exhausted limit, this patient, who has been treated, has been taken care of, the hospital is still wronged because, despite the work and expenses, it will not receive the funds that have been cast for this patient. That is why we propose that you support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u35	Replices to Mr. Kardzhaliev? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! We from BSP left Bulgaria are against this member and naturally we will support the proposal of our colleagues from the DPS because, colleagues, I repeat, at the risk of waking up the hall, there should be no limit from January 1st. With this budget again, we propose to limit activities in outpatient care and further in hospital care. In fact, when a limit is proposed in extra-hospital aid, and just two members ago, we suggested that there be more funds there so that there would be no limit, we will now force patients to do what they are doing right now. The patient will not enter the outpatient care, he goes on the short track directly to the hospital care, but there at the register it costs times more. Isn't that what we were going to fight against?! I thought from January 1st everyone would go with the money, no limits, no nothing, no restrictions?! What happened?! Who lied to who this past year?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u37	Any lines to Mr. Raynov? I won't. Mr. Ademov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We offer in art. 3 to drop paragraphs 1 and 2. To the arguments that have been said so far, I will add a few more. First of all, we are talking about the so-called regulatory standards in the hospital aid. It is about the number of medical activities employed in specialized medical care and the value of medical and diagnostic activities employed. Dear Minister, in the adoption of the previous budget you have stated responsibly from this tribune that regulatory standards next year, when we will be witnessing the effects of health reform, there will be no need for regulatory standards. That's what you said from that tribune. It is true that colleagues who claim that these regulatory standards have had them for more than ten years. However, this does not mean that we have to agree to this circumstance. This is what is written in the Insurance Act in art. 55, para. 3, p. 5. There it is said: The National Framework Treaty cannot establish requirements for the maximum number of activities in specialized medical care and cannot establish quotas in hospital care. What does it turn out to be? That what is written in the Health Insurance Act, what is supposed to enter the National Framework Treaty, is contrary to what is said in art. 3. Regulatory standards are part of the administrative approach, the administration of the system. Regulatory standards prevent the patient from receiving adequate treatment in outpatient care so as not to reach the expensive hospital care. If the idea of reform, as you say, Mr. Minister, is part of the activities of hospital assistance to be transferred to extra-hospital aid, then how will this happen in the event of a limitation?! Therefore, we propose that these texts should be dropped because they have always been an obstacle to normal and adequate treatment of Bulgarian patients over the years. If we want health reform to acquire a completely different design, if we want more activities to be in outpatient care, this means that you have to accept our proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u39	Any lines to Mr. Ademov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Rumen Yonchev, Georgi Kovachev, Yavor Haytov, Svetlin Tanchev and Borislav Iglev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 102 MPs: 24, against 29, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Hasan Ademov, Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Devdet Chakarov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 104 MPs: 23, against 25, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the importer to art. 3 supported by the Commission. Vote 112 MPs: 94 against 15, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u40	Under art. 4 has a proposal of the MP Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs: In art.4: 1. In para 1: - T. 1b to be discarded; - in t. 2a after the word point (b) (i) is replaced by the following: - in t. 2b after the words "in the context of 2. In para. 4 after the words "in the execution of the......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 55a out of 3acon for the insurance and reinsurance The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 letter (b) shall be deleted, point (b) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) 2. point 2. is amended as follows: "2." the directors of the RHIF shall allocate the established values under point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 1 in the contracts with the medical service performers The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Rumen Yonchev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 1. In para. 1: (a) c. Point 1 (b) of the first subparagraph shall distribute the agreed annual volumes referred to in Article 1. 55, para. 2, item 3a of the SCI of the types of medical aid under regional health insurance funds is deleted; (b) c. 2: - in the letter................................................................................................ point (b) is deleted; - in the letter "b" the words "brows" and "brows" are deleted. 2. In para. 4 the words "insults" under art. 55a of the S&D and the S &amp; D are being used. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hasan Ademov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the - in t. 1 to drop the letter "b'; - T. 2 to be absorbed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. (1) Within the values of art. 1, para. 2, row 1.1.3.5.1, row 1.13.6 and row 1.1.3.7 for the application of art. 55a of the Health Insurance Act and of the National Framework Treaty on Medical Activities 2016: 1. The NHIF Supervisory Board shall: (a) approve for each regional health insurance fund an annual total cost of health insurance payments distributed by month; (b) allocate the agreed annual volumes under art. 55, para. 2, item 3a of the Health Insurance Act of the types of medical care under regional health insurance funds; (c) analyse and correct the volumes allocated under point (b) depending on their implementation reports up to the amount of the annual volume of medical activities agreed in the National Framework Treaty. 2. Directors of the RHIF: (a) allocate the established annual volumes per item. 1 point (b) and values under point (b) point (a) is replaced by the following: (b) purchase health activities from hospital care contractors from the package under art. 2, para. 1 of the Insurance Act in the context of the claims and the values referred to in point (a) (ii) and (iii) of Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. (2) The execution of para. 1, t. 2 is controlled by the Supervisory Board of the NHIF. (3) The Supervisory Board of the NHIF shall adopt rules on the conditions and arrangements for implementing para. 1 and 2. (4) The arrangements for monitoring, analysis and control of the implementation of the volumes under art. 55a of the Health Insurance Act and the values under para. 1, t. 2 of the performers of hospital medical care shall be defined in the National Framework contract for medical activities for 2016, and if not adopted in the decision under art. 54, para. 9 of the Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u41	Statements under art. Four? Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u42	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, Mr Minister! More seriously than what we say and what I will say for the third time, but no one will hear: after one year of listening to the spells, without limits, without restrictions, without anything, after one year of promising things, even at first reading in the first sentence in the reasons we have read: What do we see in this bill? Colleagues, there's something available here. After the limits were first introduced for the first time last year as hospital value, this year it is proposed that in addition to the value limits to hospitals, specific volumes of diagnostic activities should be allocated, i.e. the hospital, the hospital will be able to make 10 appendixes, 11 hernias, and move on. Colleagues, there have been promises all year. I don't want to make an association, but there was once a young, very pushy Hungarian Prime Minister, Gyurcani, who remained in the story with a wing phrase: We lied from morning to evening. Colleagues, worse than what is proposed in this article, is only to allocate the volumes of activities to the specific doctors by name, according to CNN. BSP left Bulgaria is against this. Our proposals are in this sense. Okay, let's divide by values, but by the volumes of activities.......................... because you may also have to save the patients by the N.N.N.N.N.A. exactly which hospital to go to to to get their appendix. Colleagues, be a little more serious at the level we're standing here. Each and every one of us other than the MP is also a potential patient. Each and every one of us, each of you, has faced the receptions that we have, exactly those issues. Let's not let this thing happen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u43	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I agree with Dr. Raynov. We also propose to drop out in para. 1, ct. 1 (b) and the whole point 2. I agree with Dr. Raynov because this article creates a dangerous precedent. It is difficult to realise at this stage, I think, for the simple reason that it is not practically tested, especially in the absence of flexible regulation by the Health Insurance Fund. That's why he has to drop out. The costs of the NHIF are already allocated according to this text between the RHIF by type of health activities, whereas the Health Insurance Act requires another From this innovation it follows logically that there will be territorial establishment of activities, and this mechanism will certainly as a hypothesis lead to the establishment of performers of medical activities and hence to patients, i.e. users of medical activities. This, in our opinion, already clearly violates the patient's free choice principle. Limiting the new mechanism, not in medical institutions, but in activities, is also contrary to the principle we talked about two or three months ago about the complexity of the treatment. In addition, according to art. 4, para. 1, t. Point 1 (a) of the NHIF Supervisory Board shall confirm the total cost of each RHIF by month. However, it is not yet known what the basic and additional package will include. True, there is some information in the space between health professionals, there is also alleged data on the contents of the packages, which means, however, that the budget is structured not on the basis of objective calculations, not on the basis of real estimates, but on the basis of empirical method or forecast indicative indicative numbers. With this, we can hardly agree and therefore propose to drop out. In addition, this type of distribution, without the ready health cards, cannot happen objectively, even more so when the number of hospital beds has such a new situation in the Insurance Act exceeds the needs. Then the NHIF will choose who to have a contract with and who not to have a contract with. On this basis, the RHIF cannot make the adequate distribution of the activities of performers, which we discussed for a long time during the adoption of the Health Insurance Act. Also proposed is the director, that's in point. 2 of the RHIF to purchase activities from medical establishments of its choice on the relevant territory. This is already creating conditions for non-prognosis, for unpredictableness, and complex treatment is also being vitiated. This fact also poses a great danger. This needs to be emphasised, including in this House, by the emergence of corruption practices, as well as by purchased insufficient or unnecessary volumes of activities. Among other things, we believe that the powers and responsibilities of the directors of the RHIF are becoming too great, and for this reason we also propose that this text be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u45	Thank you, Dr. Kardzhaliev. A line? I can't see. For speech there is the popular representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This will probably be my final statement on this bill, as the texts have been cleared from there with the word organizations. I'm going to make a proposal for an editorial change in art. 4, para. 1, t. 2 (b) but before that, I think it's good to say some things that seem to be being surrounded here perhaps intentionally, perhaps consciously or unconsciously. In fact, it is in this article that the multi-month work of both the Committee on Health, first of all for carrying out control and suspension, as far as we could, of the possibilities for draining the Health Insurance Fund and the other part that it regulated and which all the members of the Health Commission supported for the creation of a national health card. If someone has read the Law or at least bothered to read the Health Insurance Act, they should be very familiar with two articles. This is art. 54 of the Law, which regulates when national framework contracts are concluded and from now on we enter into matter which has been subject for the first time in many years to clear statistical numbers and, more importantly, to a serious analysis that covers the regions concerned in terms of preparing the regional health card and justifies them already in one national health card. Again, numbers and analysis. In fact, one part of these medical activities is the number of hospitalizations. Everyone already knows that statistically they are defined and agreed as required in art. 55. Isn't that right, Minister? [[Mister Peter Moskov nodded affirmatively with his head.]] Two million and 30-40 thousand hospitalizations. Henceforth, so that there is no escalation of any tension, so that there are no opportunities for someone for purely political reason to speculate, I will make proposals to implement the Law in all its power, as we adopted in July the Health Insurance Act. My offer...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u47	I'm gonna have to ask you to put it in writing. Report it from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u48	I want to read it and I'll give it to you in writing. My proposal, Mr. Chairman, is in art. 4, para. 1, t. 2 point (b) after the abbreviation of the Insurance Act, the text is deleted and adopted the following type: Control is also provided for in national framework contracts, control is also provided in the texts of the Health Insurance Act, but from now on with this text we give neither for speculation nor for some to go and poke the Bulgarian Medical Union that their rights under the Treaty are not protected and from now on we give the Ministry and the National Health Insurance Fund the opportunity to work as we have adopted the Law. Not to pay, as so far would have been, but to purchase the specified volume of activities after control. I see that Dr. Glinka Komitov supports my proposal with gestures, but this, colleagues, is the best possible text we can adopt today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u49	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. I await your written proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u50	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u51	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. The word has the popular representative Dr. Hassan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the most important members in the proposed bill. However, this discussion on this article is extremely specialized, extremely detailed, extremely professional, if I may say so. However, I will try to bring the text of this article into a slightly more understandable language. Honourable Members, in this article we are talking about an attempt to seek a balance between volumes and prices, notice, within a predetermined financial framework. When we talk about volumes, we need to understand the patient's rights to access, including his right of access to specialised research and medical institutions, and when we talk about prices, when we talk about values, we talk about the right of medical institutions to receive adequate funding for the medical activity, we are talking about the doctor's right to receive an adequate remuneration. The demand for this balance between volumes and prices within a preset financial volume, for me, is an extremely difficult thing. That's why I'm saying this is a bad experience. Because if we reduce the volume, that means we're damaging the patient's rights. If we reduce prices, we inquire about the rights of medical institutions, respectively the right of the doctor to receive adequate remuneration. And all of this within a preset financial resource. Then we ask ourselves the natural question: Dear Minister, with this article, with this bill, what objectives are we pursuing..................... or pursuing fiscal goals? Obviously, when we talk about budget law, we pursue financial goals. All these measures are envisaged only and only not to exceed this financial framework. Of course, financial discipline is a very important thing, of course control is an extremely important thing, including ex ante, including ex post control. However, I would like to ask, Dear Minister: if the measures laid down in the Health Insurance Act, if the structural measures laid down in the Health Insurance Act give their effects, then why do we have to do what we do now? You claim that there is no limitation in medical facilities. Well, it's better to have a limit on hospitals than a limit on volumes. This is the first time this innovation has appeared, this thing called "Limiting the volumes of medical institutions" understand, "Limiting the diagnoses" means that we have reached the bottom of the health reform, dear Minister. These are some kind of push to join within the framework of a financial resource, pre-set, these are some push to simulate reform rather than improve the service of Bulgarian patients.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u53	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Here's a line for you, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Dr. Ademov, I purposely address you and not the Minister: You as a Member of the National Assembly, as well as a large part of those sitting from the Forty-First Parliament, we should all remember that then we have made an attempt to distribute them in the same way, to limit the volumes. I can recall who was Minister then, I can remind you who was Head of the Cashier, and everyone, except the Minister, should know what the result is. And here, Dr. Ademov, as a colleague, I ask the specific question: what is the name of a person who makes the same mistake twice and expects a different result? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u55	Thank you, Dr. Raynov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Dr. Raynov, I would like to answer you this way. I know one definition of experience, and it says: "Experience is a sum of mistakes made. When the same mistake is repeated several times, it means that we have not learned from what we have made as mistakes. You're quoting certain people. That's not the problem. The problem is that a certain way of thinking, certain positions in the National Assembly and in the Council of Ministers have also allowed such problems. Now the problem of this National Assembly is that we are trying to repeat the same mistake that we will take into account after a while. Therefore, my request is that you accept proposals that are seriously thought out so that we do not go back to a situation where we claim that we have made mistakes again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u57	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. The word is Minister Moskov. [[National Representative Georgi Kuchukov wants the floor.]] Prof. Kuchukov, Dr. Moskov has long made a request and that is why you are next. [[Replicate from the National Representative Georgi Kyuchukov.]] Dr. Moskov, if you'd like to give it to him?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u58	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u59	Here you go, Assoc. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, thank you for giving me the order because it has something to do with a question for you. Obviously, art. 4 is perhaps the most important, along with § 10 of the entire Law, and it is obvious that at first reading everything that colleagues Raynov, Kardzhaliev and Ademov said was the way I accepted it. On Friday, I realized that this wasn't exactly true, and things were a little bit different than what was written. Yesterday at the Commission, I realized that this was quite different from what was written and it even eased and allowed the directors of the RHIF to reduce the limitation of hospital and hospital care. Please, Minister, explain to me exactly what this text means. Because what's written doesn't mean anything to me. I also believe that Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal with the inclusion of the National Framework Treaty is quite rational and we should accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u61	Thank you, Assoc. Kuchukov. A line? Here you go, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Prof. Kuchukov, we are in the Bulgarian Parliament. Explain to me what it says, for what is written in the Law must be what we all read. Otherwise, we get into the situation that what you see is not what you think. So I am personally interested in what is written in the Bill, what we are going to vote on, not what the minister thinks he is doing with what we are all going to be responsible for here with the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u63	Second line? I can't see. A hole? Docent Kuchukov, the doppelganger? You're giving up. The word is made by the Minister of Health Dr. Petar Moskov. Here you go, Dr. Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll try to be very brief. I will really try not to impose my presence until the end of Parliament's discussion, as far as this article really contains important things, there are different opinions on why and how. Let's say this. I will start by saying that I really thank you for a reasonable, meaningful and fruitful dialogue with the word organization in the period between first and second readings. Here are also some of the presidents of the word organizations. I was impressed by the arguments and the firmness with which they defended certain positions. Here is the moment to thank the Committee on Health and the Working Group for actually the changes they offer...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u65	And the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u66	And to the Budget Committee, of course, excuse me, Mrs Daritkova, for the fact that the really reasonable, well-grounded proposals of the word organizations are taken into account and in fact all the main recommendations and disagreements with the text, as tabled by the Council of Ministers, are taken into account in the proposal of the working group. So once again, this conflict, every sensible opinion of the word organizations is closed. A little more on that one. It is good to follow the same logic of things.. both the Doctor's and the Dental Union followed it throughout the dialogue, for which, again, I say, I am impressed and thank you. The consensus organizations were strongly opposed to the imposition of texts related to prices, price changes and values, because of which the opposition, in its various factions, was opposed at the first adoption of the Law. We have indeed accepted the arguments of the word organizations and of the opposition, of course, and I think that the working group has come up with a clean option in which these justified and reasoned requests of the word and patient organisations have been taken into account. What remains is the other philosophy, which is also the basic philosophy of the laws that we adopted. We're not talking about prices, we're only talking about volumes. Let me say, because I've learned not to mention specific names, so there won't be a-what are you, that the only text that talks about value, because many of the MPs said that there were values is in art. 4, para. 4 where it is said that the values of para. 1 of the hospital aid performers are agreed in the National Framework Treaty where this is their place, the word organizations together with the Casa agree values. This is the only text in this article that talks about values, and hence the philosophy of volumes is quite simple. And this is something that we have a consensus on with the word organizations, to say the least. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u67	All right, all right. Look at the task force's proposal and let us unite around the meaningful proposals made between first and second readings, which are taken into account by the working group, for which I, again, say, express my respect for the work done and the position of the word organizations. We're talking about negotiating volume in the National Framework Treaty. This volume for hospital activity, because there is buried the dog, there is no way and no normal person, none of the word organizations pretend that it can be greater than the historically reached volume of 2 million and none of the opposition has this claim, excuse me, for the sake of common sense. That is, when you have the national volume agreed in the National Framework Treaty, its distribution down as volumes and on the basis of historically reached levels of the designated institutions, it becomes clear and simply no limit, there is reached historical volume, which means the historical need of Bulgarian citizens. This is what the Fund negotiates that it buys for the needs of its insured persons a certain amount of hospitalizations from each hospital based on the structure, on the basis of the activity and on the basis of the new requirements it puts before them. Clean, simple and clear volume at hospital level. Nowhere in any way, and at no price, either in the majority or in the government, is discussed, thought, or somewhere there is a reflection in these texts, citing or concluding contracts for volumes in individual clinical pathways, or whatever. There really is a bad experience in this regard. No one has thought about it, and there are no such texts anywhere, please be correct, that is, this volume is distributed at the level of the regional health insurance fund. Excuse me, but the counterparties of each of the hospitals - only part of you here know - the others do not have to know it, but the counterparty of the hospital in Stara Zagora or in Sofia is RZIF in Sofia or in Stara Zagora, is not NHIF. It's always been like this, always will be. Separately, at the level of the budget, and this is the philosophy of the budget, I tried to tell it last time, I hope to be clear this time: the budget has a set-up and will be left by the end of the year a functional central reserve that will take account of the additional migration processes, outside the current ones that are present in the hospital's needs of one RHIF, in another. There is already a clear database of the Cashier about how this process is going and each person can be traced from what territory, what territory he has sought health care in Bulgaria and thus bring the corresponding amount of money to the hospital concerned, respectively to the other RHIF. Is there any unknowns because there was talk of speculation? On the contrary, behind every number in this budget are analyses. So, if one of the MPs wanted to, I'd give them to him. However, they contain gigabytes of flash drives, they are not available on several sheets to make sense of them quickly. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If there are unknowns, I do not use the name, but to you I address, Doctor, they are objective, they are related to an additional migration process that will be controlled through a centralised budget and with the real unknown, for which there will again be a blocked reserve in time at central level, for the huge number of new activities related to the new equipment that has been put in place. I'm not an expert on what you're saying that something had a chance to become corrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u68	Let's stick to the time, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u69	Last sentence. Just so you know, there's a lot of guild defences here. Once again, I would like to thank the word organizations. I take the opportunity that Dr. Milanov of the Dental Union is here to say that, in the context of the talks and with the management of the Committee on Health and with me and the Finance Minister, and with the state quota in the Supervision of the Casa, we have a clearly committed commitment to the Dental Union that in the second part of the year there will be a third activity - something that has never happened before - with certain parameters for which the Union has agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u70	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Kuchukov, Todorova, Belemezov, Nikiforov, Mihov, Kadiev and Ivanov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 116 MPs: 32, against 32, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Raynov, Ibrishimov, Gokov and Yankova, which the Commission does not support. They voted 121 MPs: 37 against 33, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Yonchev, Kovachev, Haytov, Tanchev and Iglev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 122 MPs: 30, 26, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Ademov, Kardzhaliev and Chakarov. The Commission does not support it. They voted 124 MPs: 27, against 35, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. Before we vote Art. 4 a editorial proposal from Mr. Bajraktarov: in art. 4, para. 1, t. 2 point (b) (i) after the words of the Insurance Act to record the National Framework contract for medical activities, as well as the values referred to in point (a) (ii) and the text of the report to be dropped. This is the text within the ranges and values referred to in the letter. We vote on Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal. They voted 118 MPs: 37 against 22, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 4 in the version of the Commission report. 125 MPs voted: 97, against 25, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u71	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the division. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u72	Colleagues, speeches on the name of the division and paragraphs 1 to 8 including? I won't. Anblok, we vote. Vote 127 MPs: 102, against 17, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u73	According to § 9 there is a proposal from the MPs Rumen Yonchev and a group of MPs in § 9, para. 2 the word "actions' is replaced by "the values'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u74	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the unsupported proposal of Mr. Yonchev and a group of MPs. They voted 119 MPs: for 6, against 26, abstentioned 87. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 9 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 107 MPs: for 94, against 12, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u75	Proposal by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova to create new paragraphs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 10 and § 11: ..................................................... (1) Until the adoption of a National Framework Treaty on medical activities for 2016, within the limits of the values referred to in art. 1, para. 2, row 1.1.3.2. and row 1.1.3 4: 1. The National Health Insurance Fund shall approve for each regional health insurance fund and for each quarter to contracts with the performers of outpatient primary and outpatient specialised medical care: (a) the number of specialised medical activities employed in accordance with art. 1, para. 2, row 1.1.3.2.; (b) the value of the medical-diagnostic activities employed in accordance with art. 1, para. 2, row 1.1.3.4. (2) The number by para. 1, t. 1 letter (s) and the values under para. 1, t. 1 point (b) and their amendment by the order of para. 3 shall be validated by the Supervisory Board of the NHIF. (3) The Supervisory Board of the NHIF shall adopt rules on the conditions and arrangements for implementing para. 1 and for the implementation of control and adjustments under para. 1 and 2. § 11. The NHIF Supervisory Board shall decide on the allocation of the funds under art. 1, para. 2, row 1.3 "Reserv, including for unforeseen and urgent expenses and for sickness insurance payments, after adoption of the National Framework contract for medical activities for 2016 and the National Framework Treaty for dental activities for 2016 or the decision under art. 54, para. 9 of the health insurance 3acon as the first decision to allocate part of the funds under art. 1, para. 2, row 1.3 shall be taken not earlier than 31 March 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u76	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 10 on the report and in the version of the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 94 against 9, abstention 8. Paragraph 10 has been voted on. I am now voting on § 11 - also reported by Mrs. Yordanova. Vote 105 MPs: 91 against 13, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u77	Under § 10, there is a proposal from the National Representative Krasimira Kovatchka and a group: In the transitional and final provisions § 10 to be applied. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hasan Ademov and group: In transitional and final provisions §10 to be applied. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kyuchukov and group: In § 10: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." The National Health Insurance Fund shall purchase health activities under para 1, as agreed in the National Framework Treaty, determined by type, volume, prices and corresponding to quality and accessibility criteria. 2. Point 2 to fall 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4, the newly created t. 6 to art. 20, para. One, drop. 5. Point ten, drop it. 6. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The newly developed para. 11, para. 12 is amended as follows: In case of a deviation of the current implementation of the costs under art. 24, p. 1 for health insurance payments, compared to the monthly distribution by the Supervisory Board of the NHIF of the same, established by the NHIF Budget Act for the relevant year after negotiations with the BLS and BZS the parties to the National Framework Treaty shall take action to change the prices of medical assistance under art. 55, para. 2, p. 2 as: 1. Approve change of prices under art. 55, para. 2, p. 3a within the time limits for drawing up and submitting the accounts, as defined by the instructions set out in art. 133, para. 5 of the Public Finance Act and sign an annex to the LDC for contractual changes. 2. The proposed point 2 is to fall. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 3. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov and group: The following amendments shall be made in Transitional and Final Provisions: "1." of which: 1: (a) the introductory sentence is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 the following amendments and additions are made: (b) b. .) in para. 1 sentence first, the word "buying' is replaced by "paying'. c) the text of t. 1 becomes text of b. As in the content of the newly created para. 3 and the expression "supplier' is replaced by "supplier's fee'; 2. t. Point 3 shall be supported in principle. "4." c. 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4. 3, as from the operative and its contents the 5. 5 " 10" becomes pcs, respectively. 4 - 9; 6. 11 sssssssssssssssssssssssssss; 7. 12.. 23............................................................................ 10 - 21; 8. 24 ct. 22, as in para. 1 of creations new art. 106a The following amendments shall be made: (a) the expression (b) the expression 9. 25 " 27" becomes respectively. 23.. 25. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 3. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. One, two, four, nine............................................................... Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Yonchev and group: In § 10: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1, in the newly created para. 3: - after the words "actions" under para. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article - the words at the end of the subparagraph, in accordance with this law, shall be deleted. 2. Point 2 concerning art. 15, para. 1, t. 5a: "Divide the volumes under art. 55, para. 2, p. 3a of the types of medical care under the RHIF Point 3 is supported. "4." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 in art. 20, para. 1 t. 6 supplies from the medical care contractors health activities under art. 2, para. 1 within the volume determined by art. 15, para. 1, t. 5a for the relevant RHER (RIF) to fall. 5. Point 10 concerning art. The text of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is amended in accordance with the Annex to this Regulation. 6. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Article 11, as regards (a) para. point 6 (b) is replaced by the following: (b) in para.12: - the word "Stammers' is replaced by the words "Stammers', and the letter "s' is replaced by the words "Stammers', the word "Stammers' is replaced by "Stammers', the words "The NHIF's Board' are replaced by "Stammers', the word "Stammers' are replaced by "Stammers'. - In point 1, the word "adopted" is replaced by "adopted," the words "on the proposal of the manager of the NHIF" are deleted after the text "the Public Finance Act" and the words "and sign an annex to the LDC for the agreed changes" are added. - Point 2: "2." ordering the Governor of NHIF through the Minister of Health to submit for adoption by the Council of Ministers the changed prices of medical assistance under art. 55, para. 2, p. 2 within the end of the month following the month in which the excess was established. Point 8 is supported. Nine. In point 13, in Article 13 (1), point (a) is replaced by the following: 55a After the words the words of the NHIF are added the words of the NHIF. 10. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Article 14 (a) (i) and (ii) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 59, para. 11, p. 1 words as well as when carrying out and reporting a medical activity for which there is no relevant medical (s) shall be deleted and the word "s' shall be replaced by "s'. 11. Point 15 concerning the proposal for a change of art. 67, drop out. 12. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 16 concerning (a) in letter (s), in para. 2 After the words "NHIF employees', the words "in the job description' shall be added to them; the words "or by an official authorised by him and by the officials of the RHIF' shall be deleted and the words "or by a person authorised by him' shall be deleted. (b) in point (b) (i), in para. 3 in a sentence first, the words "or of a person of service' and, in a sentence second, the words "or of a person of service' shall be deleted. 13. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Article 17 concerning Art. 73, in the newly created t. 5 the words "succeeded" are replaced by "sacred" and after the words "scrambled" the words "scrambled" is added. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 3 et c. 8. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. One, two, four, seven, and so on. 9.. 13. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In the Health Insurance Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 is created The National Health Insurance Fund shall purchase health activities under para. 1 determined by type, volume, price and corresponding to quality and accessibility criteria in accordance with this law. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1 is created t. 5a: 5a. Distribute volumes under art. 55, para. 2, p. 3a of the types of medical assistance under the RHIF; 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "On expiry of the term of office, the NHIF manager shall continue to perform his duties until the election of a new manager.' 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 1 is created t. 5 and 6: It's five o'clock. conclude, amend and terminate the contracts for medicinal products under art. 262, para. 6, p. 1 of the Act on medicinal products in human medicine, medical devices and diet foods for special medical purposes for home treatment in the territory of the country with holders of retail authorisations for medicinal products in a pharmacy in accordance with the terms and conditions under art. 45, para. 15; 6. purchase of health activities under art. 2, para. 1 within the volume determined by art. 15, para. 1, t. 5a for the relevant RHIF. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 5 Finally a comma is placed and added as well as medicinal products for malignancy for treatment under hospital medical care, which the NHIF pays outside the value of the medical activities carried out. (b) point 6a is repealed. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the words "hospital services' shall be replaced by "emergency services'. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 39 is The health insurance status required for the exercise of the health insurance rights of persons under art. 33 shall be formed on the basis of the health insurance data from applications and declarations under this law, entries in official public registers, written evidence provided by persons and the contributions paid or due. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 3, p. 1 shall finally be a comma and added no later than 22 years of age. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) point 7 is repealed; (b) point 15 is amended as follows: ..15. medical activities and medicinal products outside the scope of compulsory health insurance financed by a transfer from the Ministry of Health under the NHIF Budget Act for the relevant year; 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51 after abbreviation, the CADs shall be commaed and the clinical trials of medicinal products and medical devices shall be added. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) paragraph 6 is amended as follows: The national framework contracts shall be adopted no later than the last day of February, shall enter into force on 1 April of the relevant year and shall comply with the NHIF's budget for the same year. (b) in para. 9 the words in the NHIF Budget Act for the following year provide for financing of new medical activities, dental activities, medicinal products and medical devices for which the requirements in force so far do not contain the LDCs are replaced by changes in the current legislation require amendment or addition to the requirements contained in the LDCs. (c) paragraph 10 is repealed; (d) in para. 11 the words "seven" are deleted. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 the words "January 1st' are replaced by "April 1st'; (b) in para. 3 t. Five is canceled. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: At the end of this period, the NHIF's budget shall be allocated to the NHIF in accordance with the parameters of the expenditure of the NHIF budget set out in the NHIF Budget Act for the year concerned. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 the words "or 10" shall be deleted; (b) in para. 3 the words "six" and "six" are deleted; (c) in para. 11 t. 1 and 2 are amended as follows: "1." taking into account an activity that has not been carried out as well as in carrying out and reporting medical activities for which there are no relevant medical indications established in accordance with art. 72, para. 2: (a) by a performer of outpatient medical care on a particular package, in part, with regard to a dentist who has not performed this activity; (b) by a hospital health care contractor, in part, for the corresponding medical activity in the package on which the outstanding activity is reported; 2. in the case of re-enactment of the infringement under point 2. 1 the contract with the contractor shall be terminated in full; (d) paragraph 13 is amended as follows: The manager of the NHIF, the director of the RHIF, shall, in whole or in part, terminate contracts with the performers of medical and/or dental aid in the cases under para. 11, p. 1 and 2, and in the cases under para. 11, p. 3 and 4 imposes a financial penalty in accordance with the existing LDC. The order for termination of the contract or imposition of a financial penalty shall be subject to challenge under the Administrative Procedure Code. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59a, para. 4 the words "six" are deleted. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 6 the word "decisions" shall be replaced by the "claim" and the words "and 10" shall be deleted; (b) Paragraph 7 shall be created: seven Alinei 4 and 5 do not apply when, on the basis of a needs assessment and an established failure according to the National Health Card, there is a need for medical care. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 67 the words "the last' shall be replaced by "the relevant'. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The control of the implementation of the NHIF contracts for the provision of medical and/or dental assistance shall be carried out by checks carried out by officials of the NHIF staff appointed by order of the manager of the NHIF or by an official authorised by him and by staff of the RHIF officers. The manager of the NHIF or an official authorised by him may, by order, order an inspection by the RHIF controllers with the participation of staff of the NHIF; (b) New paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall be created: The NHIF's employees under para. 2 may carry out checks on the territory of the whole country by order of the manager of the NHIF or of an official authorised by him. The members of the Board of Directors may carry out checks on the territory of the relevant Board of Directors or on the territory of another Board of Directors by order of the NHIF manager or of an official authorised by it. In order to issue the order of the manager of the NHIF for carrying out an inspection on the territory of another RHIF, the controllers shall be designated on a proposal from the Director of the RHIF of which they are employees. (4) When carrying out the checks under para. 3 experts of the word organizations of dentists and dentists who are not in contractual relationship with the checked medical examiner may be present. The experts shall provide written opinions which form an integral part of the minutes referred to in Article 1. 74, para. 3. (5) The employees of the NHIF under para. 2 and the controllers shall carry out sudden control over the execution of contracts with the performers of medical and/or dental aid, control before payment of medical and/or dental aid and ex post control. c) the current para. 3 becomes para. 6 and in it the words "Indirect control of para." 2 is periodic and for the performance of the...................................................................................................... 2 may also be carried out through the "supplier'; (d) the current para. 4 becomes para. 7 and in it the figure (e) the current para. 5 becomes para. 8 and in it the figure (f) paragraph 6 is repealed; (g) the current para. 7 becomes para. 9; (h) the current para. 8 becomes para. 10 and in it, the words "s 7' are replaced by "s7, 8 and 9'. 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1: (aa) in the text before t. 1 the words "Financial inspectors" shall be replaced by the bodies responsible under art. 72, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: (bb) A new item shall be created. 1: "1." verify the NHIF payments to medical and/or dental aid contractors and related documentation; (c) c. 4 a comma is finally placed and added by the performers of medical and/or dental assistance under their contracts with the NHIF. (dd) Points 5 "10" shall be created. It's five o'clock. verify the existence of payments by mandatory health insurance to contractors, their size and grounds in cases where medical and/or dental assistance under a contract with the NHIF is provided; 6. verify the contracts of medical and/or dental aid contractors concluded with other medical establishments for the performance of part of the NHIF contract in the cases provided for in the LDC; 7. check the compliance of the performers with the criteria for accessibility and quality of medical assistance regulated in the LDC in accordance with art. 59c; 8. verify the type and volume of medical and/or dental assistance provided under a contract with the NHIF; 9. to check the type and quantities of medical care purchased by the hospital performers and put in place in the performance of the contract with the NHIF medical devices applied under the conditions of hospital medical care paid by the NHIF in full or in part; 10. verify the compliance between the medical and/or dental aid received and the amounts paid by the NHIF; (b) in para. 2 the words "the Inspectors of Finance" shall be replaced by the bodies in charge of art. 72, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: (c) in para. 3 the words "Financial inspectors" shall be replaced by the bodies responsible under art. 72, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: (d) paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 shall be repealed. 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) paragraph 1 is repealed; (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The control bodies referred to in art. 72, para. 2 carry out their activities through planned and unannounced checks and on the occasion of complaints. (c) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: In the event of infringement under art. 73, para. 1 the relevant official referred to in Article 1. 72, para. 2 draw up and sign a protocol describing the facts established. A copy of the minutes shall be made available to the person subject to the check against signature and copies of it shall be sent to the manager of the NHIF, respectively to the Director of the RHIF and to the relevant regional college of the word organisation of the doctors or dentists. (d) in para. 4 after the words the manager of the NHIF is added to the address and the words the doctor-controller or the dentist-controller shall be replaced by the person responsible under para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1): (e) in para. 5 words the doctor-controller or dentist-controller shall be replaced by the person responsible under para. The NHIF manager, respectively, is added after the word "Contacts" and after the word "Contacts." 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1: (aa) the words the doctor-controller or the dentist-controller shall be replaced by the person responsible under art. 72, para. 2, the manager of the NHIF, respectively (bb) the second sentence shall be created: "When the findings are challenged before the Governor of the NHIF, the dispute shall be settled by the arbitration panel of this RHIF, with which the director of medical or dental assistance has been subject to the verification, a contract has been concluded. (b) in para. 3 words the doctor-controller or the dentist-controller shall be replaced by the responsible officer under art. 72, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union 22. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 the words the doctor-controller or the dentist-controller shall be replaced by the person responsible under art. 72, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The sanctions shall be imposed by order of the manager of the NHIF, respectively to the Director of the RHIF, which shall be issued within one month of the notice by the arbitration commission of the manager of the NHIF, respectively to the Director of the RHIF, that the findings of the official under art. 72, para. 2, and shall be communicated to the person subject to the verification. Where the infringement has been established by RHIF controllers, the proposal to the Governor of the NHIF for its issuance shall be made by the Director of the relevant RHIF. 23. In Article 76a: (a) in para. 2 the NHIF Governor shall be added to the NHIF Governor, respectively, after the (b) in para. The NHIF manager, respectively, shall be added after the figure. 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 the manager of the NHIF, respectively, shall be added by this Law or by the NHIF; (b) in para. 2 after the words................................................................................................ The NHIF manager, respectively, shall be added. 25. In Art. 105z, para. 2 the NHIF Governor, respectively, shall be added after the 26. A new article shall be created. 106a: Art. 106a. (1) Director of the RHIF, who has purchased and/or paid health activities in violation of the values for the relevant RHIF, determined in accordance with the budget law of the NHIF for the year concerned, shall be punished with a fine from 600 to 1000 BGN and for repeated infringement - from 1000 to 2000 BGN. (2) The violations of para. 1 shall be established by acts of NHIF officials designated by order of the Governor of the NHIF and the penalty decrees shall be issued by the Governor of the NHIF. 27. Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions lays down t. 25-27: It's 25. "Sudden control' is the control relating to the payment of medical/dental assistance provided in the implementation of a contract with the NHIF, as well as the compliance of medical and dental aid contractors with the accessibility and quality criteria laid down in the LDC, which takes place at the time of the provision of medical assistance to a insured person. 26. The medical/dental assistance provided shall be checked at the medical establishment or on documents of a pre-payment activity reported in the RHIF. 27. The following control is a check in the medical establishment or on documents of a post-paying activity reported in the RHIF.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. The debate is open, colleagues. Members of parliament who wish to participate in it? Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u79	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u80	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u81	Thank you, Madam President. You have all seen that the text of § 10 took about ten to fifteen minutes just to read it. Note that 27 texts are corrected by this paragraph in the Health Insurance Act. I have a procedure for the debate to be a point by point and also a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u82	Do you propose that a point by point each one of 1 to 27 points be with a separate debate? Our Rules don't have that kind of opportunity. You can offer a separate vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u83	Debate and vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u84	A counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Tuncher Kardzhaliev's procedural proposal, which for me does not find support in the Rules. They voted 110 MPs: 24, against 59, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Revoting, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u85	Thank you, Madam President. The Rules absolutely base Dr. Kardzhaliev's proposal because we are at second reading. It is a delusion to the House that we are at first reading when reading for an hour ten pages. So, please, re-vote. The Rules of Procedure shall vote on text. Otherwise, we are talking about a whole incorporated bill inside, amending, additional and MPs are not able to understand at all what this is about. [[Noise and lines.]] Well, there are some more observant.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u86	Revoting, colleagues, the paragraph is 12 in the Commission's numbering, by importer is § 10. They voted 113 MPs: 28 against 60, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. You have the floor, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, as has already been said, with this article. 10 We rewrite an entire chapter of the Insurance Act, which was adopted literally a few months ago by us, was proposed by the same team, and now proposes these changes. Indeed, this paragraph is huge, and I will begin to remind you little by little of what is being proposed and what changes we are proposing. In the beginning, colleagues, it starts with the term that the National Health Insurance Fund buys services. Honourable colleagues, the National Health Insurance Fund operates with our funds and pays services performed to us. We're the ones who choose which hospital to go to and the Cashier has to pay. The register has no right to buy on our behalf. What we are proposing is that the purchase price is replaced by the payment fee. I see you're beginning to be interested. Secondly, there is a change in art. 19: To submit approval by the Supervisory Board Project for price changes through the Minister of the Council of Ministers. Colleagues, if this happens, will show the complete inability of the management of the Cashier, of Oversight and of the officer, the first inability to exercise control over the spending of our over 3 billion money and, as a result, recognising this inability to exercise control, proposes to reduce prices. We're definitely going to drop this term.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u88	Which member? You'll give it in writing later. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u89	I have to say it. Further on, colleagues, there is something very interesting. Again here is quoted how the Regional Health Insurance Fund should be charged with the responsibility to distribute volumes to medical institutions. Colleagues, I have no doubt about the competence of the directors of the cashiers, but I am slightly concerned about the enormous responsibility we are burdening them with. We are absolutely against this and we want it to go away. Next, somewhere in the end, it is proposed that the directors, who will distribute tens, hundreds of millions of leva of our health insurance contributions, see if the director of RHIF buys and pays health activities in violation of the values of the respective RHIF, be fined from 600 to 1000 BGN. It distributes hundreds of millions.. 600 to 1000 BGN.! Several members back director of the hospital, if caught with a single violation of BGN 5000, in case of a repeated violation of BGN 20 000. Colleagues, you understand this is a complete paradox?! Our proposal is that the measures should be adequate. The directors of the cashiers, since we will burden them with such responsibility, to bear the other financial responsibility. There we propose for the first violation instead of the first violation of BGN 600 to BGN 1000 to be fined up to BGN 10 000. Colleagues, they distribute tens, hundreds of millions, and the Sofia Fund, if I'm not mistaken, will fix me, distribute over a billion. And for a second violation we propose that instead of.. 1000 to 2000 BGN............................... 10 to 20 000 Colleagues, I hope I have been clear and you will support our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u90	Thank you, Dr. Raynov. I'm going to ask you exactly where you want editorial, in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u91	Mr. Chairman, I'm merely stating that I retold what was read in our proposal. Point by point, article by article, this is in the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u92	Do you make editorial changes in the final version?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u93	No, there's that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u94	These are not editorial changes, this is our proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u95	Your proposal will be voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u96	I was talking about him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u97	But in the final version of the Commission, you do not have editorial notes. Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Popov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In § 10, I am intrigued by this. 7 in art. 39, where para is created. 6 which states that the health insurance status required for the exercise of the health insurance rights of persons is formed on the basis of the health insurance data of applications and declarations under this law, entries in official public registers, written evidence... My question is: what are these written evidences, what does written evidence mean here? Will it be parts of official documents, photographs, or do we again remain to the obedient in quotes administration, and without quotes, to determine which person and how to prove whether or not he is health-secure? Or maybe this evidence will be, as the Prime Minister said, did people eat fat, did they drink, did they smoke? Or maybe next to every citizen we'll put an inspector to take a picture of whether he ate, what he smoked, and how much he drank, and from that we'll determine as evidence in these photos whether a person can be health insurance, whether not, or if he's health insurance, possibly lower his social security contribution? Next, in art. 40, para. 3 It is very short said:. 1 shall finally be a comma and added no later than 22 years of age. In practice, this means dear colleagues that students will not be provided by the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u99	That's not true! This is for the students. It's for high school.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u100	In practice, this means that when you are 22 years old, regardless of your social status, the state will not be able to take care of you, will not be able to give you the necessary insurance and health status to live a normal life. This is abdicating the state of its obligations to provide quality life for the young people to those people who ultimately give the prospects of Bulgaria. But this is also the whole context of this budget. I know we're not at first reading. There is virtually nothing new in this budget. None of the required reforms are available in this budget. Despite the loud proclamation before that, the budget didn't move on the yota either. This is how it begins: that the achievements are maintained, and there is no development at all. So I can't explain these texts, I can actually explain with all this right-wing neoliberal politics of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u101	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Kardzhaliev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I first address my colleagues from the ruling majority, especially from GERB. Dear colleagues, you have one last chance to protect this budget of the Health Insurance Fund. Unfortunately for the Bulgarian healthcare for 2016 there was no debate in this House today. We propose that the whole § 10 be abolished, renumbered § 12. I am abstracting from the illegal way to correct a law that we are being offered here, namely the Health Insurance Act. Twenty-seven texts.. immediately two or three months after a brand new Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Health Insurance Act was adopted, correcting these 27 texts again is, in my opinion, a very vicious way to legislate. In my opinion, it is a very unfortunate way to bring the laws into line or adapt to our political appropriateness. However, the changes proposed also warrant powers bordering on absurdity in these texts. Our opinion on the continuation of those trends, which we always talk about when it comes to a law concerning Bulgarian healthcare, namely command-administrative style, authoritarian approach, the attempt at ultimatative demands by the state, if not to blow up, will certainly compromise the dialogue between the two Contracting Parties. The opinions of the Bulgarian Medical Union and the Bulgarian Dental Union are also confirmed by this thesis. The Bulgarian Medical Union even has a declaration that says that if this text is not removed,........................ they will not participate in the negotiation process. I hope that the presidents of these alliances are at the height of their choice and defend in principle and consistently the rights of the doctors they represent. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54 para. 6 The National Framework Treaty will be in force from 1 April. It is obvious that the purpose here is to steal time and those over a dozen regulations, regulations and regulations that have never been created before, whether due to sluggishness or lack of expertise, obviously these texts will be created during this period. The text that has been in force since 1 April, but in line with the adopted budget of the same year, I quote, is illogical. How to comply, provided that the first quarter is simply not over yet? Through the new al. 12 Another subversive idea can be passed at any time of the year to reduce the prices of medical activities. Here is the place to commend the Budget Committee that this ridiculous and incorrect text to the contractual partners is at least corrected. Next, in art. 55, para. 2, p. 6b is changed by introducing minimum amounts of penalties in case of non-compliance with the contract in the ICA. This is not right, because until now, the size of the sanctions has been negotiated. This version is another incorrect gesture to the medical community. In other words, it takes the long-standing right of the Medical Union to negotiate health insurance control. These texts are only recent for two or three months. In para. 3, p. This paragraph shall be repealed. So far, she's been entering a negotiation. The act of revocation may introduce the negotiation of a maximum number of activities carried out, the fixing of volumes and the allocation of quotas for the implementation of medical activities. This will directly violate the patient's right to free choice as a contractor. We also have notes to art. Art. 59, Art. 72. Because of this, because of the large number of incorrect texts in our view, we propose that the entire § 10, amending the Health Insurance Act, be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u103	Thank you, Dr. Kardzhaliev. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Here you are, Professor Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u104	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Indeed, § 10 was the most controversial and most controversial. It included in the amendments adopted and in § 10 itself many of the most important objections of the Medical Union and colleagues from the Health Commission, i.e. the participation of word organizations in the contractual process. So together with the proposals adopted by the Commission, our group has only been left with the proposal on this point. 1 point 5, which concerns t. 10 of § 10. It says that the pay is dropped, as well as clinical trials on medicinal products and medical devices. The correction is absolutely non-restraint, rather textual. I can't imagine that someone is willing to liquidate the clinical trials of the latest medicines and medical devices in Bulgaria. But from the text so presented, if a patient is in the course of a clinical trial, the NHIF will not pay for it. This is inconceivable, pointless, because a patient may be in a clinical trial by giving a particular drug for two months and then being observed for five years. We've had our observations up to ten years. If the text is followed, as it is written, it appears that in those ten years the contracting authority of the clinical study will have to pay him for the treatment that is pointless and which no one will accept. In addition, medication for the clinical trial does not cover the entire treatment complex of the patient. Medicinal products for the clinical trial appear to be additional, very commonly symptomatic. For example, a bisphosphonate helps improve the condition of bone metastases, but it does not cure the tumor. It is not entirely possible to treat patients in a clinical trial because that is exactly how the text can be taken by anyone other than the NHIF. The Commission did not fully accept the dropping of the item. 10. This is why I propose a new editing after the National Framework Treaty, as well as the National Framework Treaty, is added...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u105	Where is that in particular?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u106	Point one, point five of my proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u107	Editorially, according to the text of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u108	In § 10, t. 10. "As well as ".. and add.................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u109	Any lines to Mr. Kuchukov? First line, Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u110	You're right, Comrade Kuchukov, but you put patients under a common denominator. You are also right in this, but behind this denominator, many children, for example suffering from asthma, are hiding behind this denominator. With this budget here, we want to cut off their funding, which is not as big as you said. Even those Bulgarian children suffering from diseases such as asthma. I do not believe that any of the MPs will accept such an amendment through this Budget Act. I think we should think more about the Bulgarian children, except in the form of a patient, to speak with specific names. These are Bulgarian children, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u111	Second line? I won't. The hole, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u112	I may not have been clear in my speech, but this is not about the treatment of Bulgarian children or Bulgarian patients. I'm talking about clinical studies of innovative products. They only help to treat children and adults, the latest achievements bring millions of levs into our health system, but do not exclude in any way and replace routine, normal treatment. It does not enter into that paragraph and that point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u113	Any other MPs for speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u114	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! [[Mister Petar Moskov spoke with the MP Georgi Kuchukov.]] I want you to hear the offer we're going to make because...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u115	Mr. Minister, you are asked to hear the new editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u116	In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Art. 11, Art. 11. 54 has a very interesting proposal. In so far, the Act in force in art. 54, para. 6 there is a text that says that national framework contracts are adopted no earlier than the promulgation of the NHIF budget for next year and no later than the last working day of the current year. We should take into account the NHIF budget. That text is out of the question. In fact, it is replaced by an extremely interesting text. Mr. Minister, I'm going to ask you to listen carefully. Point 11 (b) (i) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply. 54, para. 6: The national framework contracts shall be adopted no later than the last day of February, shall enter into force from 1 April of the year concerned and shall comply with the NHIF's budget for the same year. What's the same year, Minister?! As soon as art. 53, para. 2 stands in the Law, is not repealed, it is said in this article that national framework contracts operate for one year, i.e. until next April, next year. At one point, it turns out that the National Framework Treaty was put into place within two years and must comply with the budget of the same year. What year? What year is this? On 2016 or 2017? How will this text be proposed by the NHIF?! That's why I'm offering this para. 6 t. 11 drop out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u117	Replies from the MPs? I won't. Mr. Minister, please come in for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u118	I won't be able to afford that kind of time, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, a formal framework contract and a methodology for prices and volumes to it so far has always been concluded within the next year following the adoption of the budget. That is, for this year this was agreed at the end of March. Nothing new and nothing different, the simple factual situation is translated into legal texts. Otherwise, the texts for the beginning of the Framework Treaty and the texts for the first possible date of unblocking from the point of view of a decision of the Supervisory of the Reserve Fund were part of the requests package of the word organizations. They are justified, meaningful, correct, analytical, and we have complied with them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u119	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u120	If you say so!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u121	However, the issue remained after 1 April of the year concerned and in line with the Cashier's budget for the same year until 31 December.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u122	What's the same year?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u123	Any other MPs? Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the strange way in which the amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act are discussed shows only one thing the government does not want a serious discussion in parliament on these texts. That's how it's done, that's how it's done, that's how it's done, that's how it's done, that's how it's done, that's how the majority of people keep quiet. What's this about? In my opinion, this amending Law concludes the issue of the need for the existence of a Health Insurance Fund in Bulgaria. There's no need for a Health Insurance Fund! From BSP left Bulgaria we will work on the issue of submitting a bill for annulment of the Health Insurance Fund. The money is collected by the Revenue Agency, the allocation of the amounts of aid by regional health care cases that can become regional representations of the Ministry of Health.. becomes administrative, and has absolutely no meaning from the Health Insurance Fund. Dear Madam President, I propose, first of all, t. Two down. If it does not fail, the next step is to remove the Health Insurance Fund - a parasitic organization, then administrative distribution of medical care by districts to the relevant health care cases, but it will be in areas of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u125	Administrative reform.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u126	Yes! There will be a lot of money saved from all these officials in Sofia and in the district health offices. Then the Ministry will distribute the volumes on the basis of some historical, political principles: where they have voted more for the government, they will be given more money, where they have voted less, or they will go to the neighbouring region, or they will go to neighbouring countries. [[Radio.]] I'm serious about this. And currently the Vidin region receives twice less money per capita than the neighbouring Montana region. Twice, Minister! When I have asked questions over the years to the Health Insurance Fund in question and to your predecessors, and we may have had this conversation with you, you explain to me that there is no such type of activity. Vidin's sick is twice as healthy as the Montenegrin sick, as the money is distributed today. It is very important to have friends in the Health Insurance Fund, to have political protection and to have private medical facilities. Where there are more private hospitals, there is always more money. This is evident from the distribution in recent years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u127	Sin of your soul.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u128	It's not my sin! Come out and disprove me! This is objective statistics that I have researched the Vidin patient is twice as healthy as the Montenegrin patient. This is the reality of Bulgarian healthcare in the 21st century. Why does he need the clerks in the Health Fund? Because of corruption, ladies and gentlemen! This bill also stimulates corruption in para. 3 of art. 72, amendative t. 18 It is very clearly written: The servants of the Health Insurance Fund under para. 2 may carry out checks on the territory of the whole country by order of the manager or of an official authorised by him. This official is kind of like the political commissioner. If a private health institution is reported regularly, it will not be ordered to check. If a health institution decides that it may not be accounted for where it should be reported, the head of the Health Insurance Fund, who is politically elected or authorised by him, will send him a check-up until he learns to report where he should be. Therefore, Madam President, I propose this para. 3 to be withdrawn and checks carried out on an objective basis. Let it be on the territory of the whole country, let it be by persons authorised but not by the checks carried out only when the manager of the Health Insurance Fund decides or the person authorised by him. Otherwise, this confirms the meaning of the existence of the Health Insurance Fund in this form to control the corruption associated with these several billion in health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u129	A line? Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u130	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Mikov, about what you said, I have a question. Don't you think it's better not for the Ministry of Health to have such regional representations, but for the Ministry of Finance? There are still better managers, recovered the leadership role of the Ministry of Finance in the Health Insurance Fund, handled with statistical lines, data based on statistics are distributed this money. Is it not better for the Ministry of Finance to take this role entirely in relation to your proposal? My second question, you referred to statistics that the sick person in Montana is twice as expensive as the sick person in Vidin. As an MP from Montana, I'm obliged to ask you: you don't plead the money for Montana to decrease? Just to catch up in some way, but in the opposite order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u131	Second line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Mikov, I have heard from you quite disturbing things about racketeering, about paying under the table.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u133	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u134	If you have such data and information, it is clear to you that in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Code you must immediately refer to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office once. You said you'd done a lot of research on the matter. As far as control is concerned, my reply to you is: we have made a lot of effort with some of our colleagues, particularly with colleague Semir Abu Melih, to pass texts in the Health Insurance Act to ensure control. Take note if you place more energy in the direction of every Bulgarian citizen to walk to the Regional Health Insurance Fund and receive their personal code, by which with only three clicks on your computer you will be able to have full information about what and what happened to it, by writing two sentences through the computer system each Bulgarian citizen, and they, if you do not know, if you have followed the budget, the health insurance is over 2 million people or more than 2 million people. controllers may at any time cause a check-up of any medical establishment and of a general practitioner. It is no longer a question of whether an officer of the office will want or not. We have staked it in the Law as legislation and legislation. My colleagues and I have made a lot of efforts to make this happen and not to be able to abuse political and economic influence, [[the President signals that time has run out]] which you talked about and which apparently were a practice in someone else's management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u135	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, in order to verify what you perceive from the stands and there is a difference between the auditory and visual system, I recommend that you read the stenogram afterwards. Neither did I mention the word "recket" nor the words "paying under the table" nor did I have the ambition that I had thoroughly studied the matter. I am merely commenting on the proposed texts that you support. Then, to see that your ears lie, not to believe them every time, meet the stenogram. Maybe with your eyes, working with you would be better. Where is Mr. Bayraktarov? (Looking in the room for Mr. Bayraktarov.) As for the other question, I did not know that the purpose of the Law was to walk patients to the Health Insurance Fund. If that is the purpose of the Law, I do not understand, but I understand from Mr. Bayraktarov that the purpose of the Law was to walk the patients to the Health Insurance Fund. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]] Then perhaps you would recommend to the elderly patients in your constituency to obtain computers, to buy or if they do not, you would give them a gift so that, as you put it, with one click these elderly people can see things in computers. [[Happy tidings.]] Thank you for informing me that the purpose of the Law is to walk patients to the Regional Health Insurance Fund. Mr. Chobanov, I agree that we can discuss this as well. Perhaps there should be units that are in subjection to the Ministry of Finance, but they should also have experts doctors to support this activity. The absurdity of the business with the health of Bulgarians really must also find the appropriate legal and administrative framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u137	Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. We have a vote coming up, and then we'll rest. First, I will put to the vote Mrs. Kovachka, Stefan Kenov, Hristo Todorov, Georgi Kovachev and Rumen Yonchev, which the Commission does not support. The next identical proposal is by Mr. Ademov, Kardzhaliev and Devdet Chakarov for dropping the provision of § 10 which Mr. Kardzhaliev made in the Chamber. They voted 120 MPs: 26, against 37, abstention 57. The proposals have not been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Kyuchukov, Todorova, Belemezov, Nikiforov, Mihov, Kadiev and Ivanov in the part not supported by the Commission. The Commission has supported the proposal. 3. They voted 123 MPs: 33, against 23, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs in his unsupported part. It is supported by t. 3 and in the rest. 9 is not supported. They voted 123 MPs: 28 against 45, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Yonchev, Kovachev, Haytov, Tanchev and Iglev in its unsupported part of the Commission. They voted 117 MPs: 21, against 27, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the editorial proposal of the Commission for § 10, which in the report is already § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u138	I thought you said you had to drop out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u139	The two for dropping out, which were made by MPs, plus what Mr. Kardzhaliev suggested here was the first thing we put to the vote. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] Your proposals are now to be voted on. I am walking in sequence, not in order of the proposals made, but in the wording of the paragraphs of § 12. [[Heckling]] Mr. Kuchukov is a t. 10. There's a proposal on the point. 2. Mr. Mikov proposes a t. 2 for changes in art. Fifteen, drop out. Isn't that right, Mr. Mikov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u141	We are voting on Mr. Mikov's proposal to drop the item. 2 of § 12. They voted 124 MPs: 26, against 66, abstentioned 32. The offer is not accepted. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 10 has a proposal from Mr. Kuchukov for editorial changes. The text at the moment is: The text is:........................................................................................................ We are voting on Mr. Kuchukov's proposal. They voted 116 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. ) (a.k.a. 11 there is a proposal by Mr. Ademov in the letter........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 6 is amended as follows with the version of para. 6 this text to drop, changes in para. 6 and the very editing of para. Six down. They voted 123 MPs: 27, against 21, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 18 for changes in art. Art. 72, para. 3 For the control actions and checks of the employees of NHIF and RHIF, Mr. Mikov proposes para. Three down. We are voting on Mr. Mikov's proposal to drop para. 3 in art. 72. They voted 128 MPs: 26, against 79, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting § 10 by importer, which becomes § 12 by the report, in the version of the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: for 106, against 22, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, on the paragraphs to the end, which are several, will there be speeches to know whether to vote and then to interrupt, or now to give the rest? [[Heckling]] Dr. Raynov, I'm looking at you as your suggestions are unsupported. [[Reply by MP Emil Raynov.]] I won't. All right, report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u142	Thank you, Madam President. According to § 11 proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov: In the Transitional and Final Provisions § The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 13. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... The medical establishments which, after 31 December 2015, obtained for the first time an authorisation to operate under art. 48, para. 1 of the Act on Medical Institutions, as well as medical establishments in which new activities have been included after 31 December 2015 may not enter into contracts or additional agreements with the NHIF in 2016 for the relevant activities. According to § 12 there is a proposal of the MP Emil Raynov and group: In the transitional and final provisions § 12 to become § 11. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 15. According to § 13 there is a proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov and group: In the transitional and final provisions § 13 to become § 12. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u143	Statements on the reported paragraphs? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs for the removal of § 11 by importer. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 117 MPs: 21, against 59, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Raynov and a group of MPs in the Transitional and Final Rules § 12 to become § 11. This is in connection with their unaccepted proposal to dismiss § 11, as well as the next proposal for renumbering, § 13 to become § 12. The proposals have not been accepted since we have just voted that it does not drop § 11 and there is no renumbering to come. We are voting unsupported texts. They voted 119 MPs: 15 against 62, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 11 by importer which shall become § 13 in the report; the new § 14 by the corresponding version of the report; § 12 by importer which shall become § 15 and § 13 by importer which shall become § 16. They voted 121 MPs: 106 against 11, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, take a break. Negative votes? [[Loud noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please take your seats. It's a re-vote. You're distracting me, and we're gonna mess up the procedures. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u144	Madam President, because I have seen colleagues getting up to leave before we vote, I ask for a re-vote, because the Law is important and it is good for everyone to vote. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u145	Everyone, please take your seats. [[Loud noise.]] Those who went out to take their seats in the hall. It's a re-vote. Vote 107 MPs: 92 against 13, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Karagyozov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u146	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister, albeit out of the Chamber! I voted against it for several reasons. First of all, because with art. 1 in an undisputed way, it is proved that this budget aims to confirm the level achieved and, in no case, to change in a better direction. I voted against this budget because with this budget, Bulgarian citizens will receive neither more accessible nor better-quality healthcare. I voted against it because again our fathers and mothers living in remote areas tens of kilometers from district centers will see a doctor and dentist, as they say in crooked macaron. I voted against it, because with this budget you, Minister, have proved that with your health reform you have put us at a dead end, that is, toupik, and exiting it, since there is no reverse move, is only through your resignation. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u147	Second negative vote please, Mr. Ibrishimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against the proposed draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016 for several reasons. The first and most important of them is that this Bill in no way meets the stated intentions for reforms in the health system. It does not provide estimates of the costs of the basic and additional package of medical activities, nor of the so-called complex treatment. According to the Bill, the costs of NHIF are allocated among the different RHIFs in health activities. This is contrary to the financial structure of the NHIF, defined by the Health Insurance Act, according to which the NHIF budget is allocated by type of activity but not to regional parts. The regionalisation of the budget of the NHIF leads to a regionalization of medical activities and something even worse, the identification of doctors and patients is in violation of the principle of free choice of doctor and medical establishment in the territory of the whole country, laid down in art. 4 of the Health Insurance Act. The proposed Bill once again introduces limits for hospital medical care and regulatory standards for outpatient medical care. The termination of the activity shows its practical inadequacy in each of the previous years. The negative consequences for hospitals and patients are known to everyone. This year alone, over 35 million. lv. have not been paid to hospitals for actual medical activities carried out to health insured persons. With limits, good hospitals are punished for those who are wanted and preferred by patients. Limits preclude the legal right of the patient to free choice of doctor and hospital throughout the country. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u149	Thank you, Mr. Ibrishimov, for your negative vote. We understand why you voted...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u150	This bill condemns the poorest layers of the population to highly restricted access to medical care. I represent BSP, which is a social party and could not support such a bill. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u151	Understandable, Mr. Ibrishimov. Third negative vote? I won't. Colleagues, break's at 2:35. ▪ For those who were correct in the plenary. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u152	Colleagues, the sitting shall continue with a second item of the extraordinary sitting: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR THE BUDGET OF THE STATE PUBLIC SECURITY FOR 2016 Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u153	Report on the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2016, No 502-01-87, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October This Decision shall This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u154	Statements? I won't. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Quaestors, invite the MPs from the couloirs, from the chair, from the Club of the People's Representative. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u155	Madam President, I ask for a procedure to be admitted: Mr. Bisser Petkov, Governor of the National Insurance Institute, Vesela Karaivanova-Nacheva, Deputy Minister Nikola Nikolov and Petya Malakova, Head of Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u156	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 93 MPs: 90, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u157	Under art. 1 has a proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the - the number 10 046 408.4 thousand. lv. is replaced by the number 10 186 408,4 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - in t. 1.1 "Securities".. the number 4 969, 506,3 thousand. lv. is replaced by the number 5 109 606,3 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: "Article 1 shall be amended as follows: Art. 1. (1) It shall adopt the consolidated budget of state social security for revenue and transfers of a total of 10 046 408,4 thousand. BGN as follows: It shall adopt the general budget of state social security for expenditure and transfers of a total of 10090 319,4 thousand. BGN as follows: The Commission shall adopt a deficit (excess) and funding under the State Social Security budget as follows: Deficit (-), surplus (+) 2 089,0 thousand lv. Financing - 2,089,0 thousand. lv. Long-term loans from banks and financial institutions from abroad At the end of the period, there was no increase in the volume of imports from the PRC. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. (1) It shall adopt the consolidated budget of state social security for revenue and transfers of a total of 10 048 408,4 thousand. BGN as follows: It shall adopt the general budget of state social security for expenditure and transfers of a total of 10 046 319,4 thousand. BGN as follows: The Commission shall adopt a deficit (excess) and funding under the State social security budget as follows: Deficit, excess, Financing, At the end of the period, there is a table next.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u158	Statements under art. 1? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u159	Honourable Members, this is the most important text in the State Social Security Budget Act for 2016, because of what revenue and what costs we will approve in art. 1 depends then everything else, such as funding policies through the IPO budget. What does the government propose and support the majority? You are proposing an increase in revenue by about 260 million. lv. in more than 2015 from BSP left Bulgaria, from trade unions and experts understand and maintain the opinion that these revenues are reduced. More revenue can be collected from the following sources. The minimum wage from 380 to 420 BGN is increased, and this increase is not provided for in the revenue section in the amount in which it should be. Secondly, gross domestic product growth of 2% and more employed next year in the labour market with 10,000 people is envisaged. From the development of the economy, more employed people should be expected, and these new 10,000 employed should contribute more insurance. In the following year the Human Resources Development Programme started with more than 500 million. BGN, where more additional people will be hired. This also means additional contributions. The expertise shows that the revenue portion could be increased by about 140 million. Why don't you? [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] I said, my colleague, I can also repeat the trade unions, experts, the Labour and Social Policy Committee. Why don't you show the real income? Because you expect there to be overrun during the year and this overexecution to go to cover the deficit. But worse is that by not showing the real revenues, you do not finance expenditures that BSP left Bulgaria believes should be financed. This is: the increase in child benefit between 1 and 2 years will be up to the minimum wage; and the increase in unemployment benefit rate. In addition to the fact that the government and you are lowering the revenue side, we offer additional sources of revenue that we believe are economically and financially justified and human far fairer, and that is: increasing the maximum insurance threshold instead of minimum thresholds, as you suggest. The maximum social security threshold means that people with higher incomes should contribute more insurance. You, back in the day, propose that the minimum thresholds be lifted, that is to say that you are affecting the poor and the people with medium incomes. We propose to increase the contribution to the Fund from 1 to 2%, which would further enter revenue into the budget of the DEA around 330 million. This is also what we offer spending policies for social payments that freeze and which is not fair to freeze, yet again I say..................... and unemployment, not only because you are a right-wing party and you are leading such a policy. Let's say this is your understanding of politics. Good. But you'll get more money from these people next year, and you'll give them less. Our address to you is: at least what you charge them extra, return them when you pay them back. I am referring to the increase in the minimum wage, which will result in more payments from workers for future maternity. You'll get more than $8 million from the mothers, and the child-bearing allowance remains the same. By increasing the minimum wage you take in more than the people for unemployment benefits. Unemployment freezes it as compensation at the same levels. It is unfair and it is a policy of the state that takes more and more of the people, and it gives them less and less. Of course, because you have other priorities. Against this 8 million for mothers and 2 million for unemployment stands 2 billion for capital expenditure. In other words, not written about what, for construction and repairs, allow me to admit: some of them for theft. That's the main difference between us. We offer serious sources of revenue that are justified and fair, against which fair social costs through the budget of state social security. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] You remind me very well, fellow Members, you'd better have done it as a line. Now I'm gonna use an answer so I don't have to get up for a douche bag. This is where they throw me: what did we do while we were in charge? Usually there are two issues in the budget when we discuss them. Okay, that's what the government is offering, you don't accept it. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] What's the alternative? I've described the alternative. The other question is, when you were in charge, why didn't you? Everything I've ordered so far, one to one, has been done during BSP management. Motherhood followed the minimum wage, social payments were never frozen. On the contrary, it's unfrozen. We've always been about increasing the maximum insurance threshold, and we've done it. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Every year, we've raised the maximum insurance threshold. So, colleague, save your note because it's inappropriate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u160	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u161	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, distinguished guests from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the National Insurance Institute! What we do as an offer in art. 1, para. 1 of the State Social Security Budget for 2016, refers to an increase in revenue by 140 million. Enough arguments have already been given, which are backed up with opinions from social partners, which are backed up with opinions from employers and trade unions and I do not need to state all the arguments in support of this proposal. I just want to tell you a few things about the macrogram of the budget. It is obvious that the budget of state social security in this form, in these policies, generates the largest deficit of 4 billion. 700 million total, along with 12% State participation as the main insurance provider, which have already merged with the latest changes to the Social Security Code with the planned deficit. This is the deficit of state social security. Despite the fact that on a consolidated basis there is a tendency to reduce the dependence of the state social security budget on the state budget, the planned deficit is still 9 million more for next year compared to what is set under a 2015 programme. I know and understand the behavior of the Bill importers why they underestimate the revenue side of the budget. She's being underestimated because she's expected to overdo it. For example, there is one indicator that I will tell you now that cannot be planned in any way. In no way can be predicted the behaviour of those who are insured in universal pension funds and professional pension funds and who wish once within the year and no later than five years before the age of art. 68 if they want to transfer their money from the respective funds from state social security. How can these funds be provided for in revenue? I know it's estimated about 50 million, but is this the real number? No one can predict that revenue. I know that revenue is underestimated so that the overexecution can then be part of the reduction of the overall deficit. Yes, but on the other hand, understatement of revenue does not allow thawing of social payments, and that is the big problem. Therefore, we in our parliamentary group offer not some fictional virtual numbers, but an objective increase in revenue with the 140 million we are talking about so that we can still take some step towards thawing social payments. That is the point of our proposal, and I ask the MPs to support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u162	Any lines to Mr. Ademov? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u163	Thank you, Madam President. What do we got? On the one hand, a demographic crisis, poverty, unemployment. On the other hand, some naked declarations by the government that they are fighting this crisis. From a third country, we are presented with this draft budget, in which there is no mention of these declarations by the government, on the contrary. The compensation for babysitting remains BGN 340. Without change remains the minimum wage for unemployment benefit. 7.20 BGN. What happened to the so loudly proclaimed pension reform? The social pension has only increased by BGN 2,00 and the minimum pension by BGN 4,00. And it became the big number of 161 leva. This budget, dear colleagues, with these figures, only confirms poverty. The murderous difference between poor and rich erases from the so-called middle class, crashes it simply and creates a huge regional imbalance in the country. Once again we see that these people who live in poor municipalities, they are poor by presumption, will become even poorer. That's what you're betting on, in fact, on this budget. This budget cannot in any way be supported by our group and at second reading we have proposed our proposals. If we want our country to develop in a normal, proper European way, please support us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u164	- What's the line? Any other MPs? Procedure? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u165	Madam President, it seems that today we are going to hit the bottom of parliamentaryism, once I understand that the ruling majority will no one take any part in any of the budgets! I therefore propose that at least the Minister of Labour and Social Policy come and, if possible, join this debate. Either the majority does not agree with what the Council of Ministers is importing or has no arguments to defend it because you are not speaking. At least let the minister come and tell us what they're doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u166	Dear Mrs. Ninova, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour Mr. Kalfin is in Brussels, but here we have allowed and present the Deputy Minister, as well as officials from the Ministry. Sometimes silence is a stronger defense than voiced positions. [[Applause from GERB.]] Any other MPs? Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would not say that silence is some form of protection, because when we make perhaps the most important law for the state, I do not know what is going on in Brussels, but it would be right for the Minister to be here. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor as I see these declarations that you have written in the budget of state social security and what is happening now. This budget cannot in any way provide, and I quote the following: suppose adequate levels of social benefits and payments! How exactly is this going to happen? Are these frozen social payments going to happen? I don't understand. A sustainable increase in labour incomes, notice, a steady increase in employment benefits! Perhaps with those 2.5% that are at stake, this means a sustainable increase in incomes and pensions. Development of social inclusion programmes to support vulnerable groups in society. How's that gonna happen? It's not clear to anyone. And we're coming to the key: Counteraction of the demographic crash! Exactly with this budget! We expected that here will be the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, who will explain how with the Ministry's budget, with the budget of state social security, with the operational programme will make exactly the plan that will get us out of the demographic disaster. It's no secret that we're the country where we disappear at the highest speed. The big question, ladies and gentlemen, is: why hasn't this plan been presented to us yet? All here in Parliament, all the parliamentary groups voted by the end of October for the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to come up with a concrete plan to deal with the demographic crisis! The Minister allows himself not to execute a decision of the National Assembly! Yes, it is now in Brussels something is obviously very important, obviously bureaucracy must be supported, but at the same time we want to see exactly what measures are that will lead us to reduce the demographic catastrophe! We don't have any. We see another frozen in absolute value social payments that will in no way help this demographic catastrophe that we are in. But in the end, we see that the Minister has no desire to respect Parliament, no desire to implement the decisions that we all, I repeat, all parliamentary groups have made. So right now, maybe only the opposition has the right to speak. We didn't see any of the government coming out of the stands. Maybe Mrs. Angelova will take the floor. So I'm hoping for a debate on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u168	Any lines to Mr. Stoinev? Mrs. Mariana Todorova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u169	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stoinev! Minister Kalfin is always available to all parliamentary groups when they wish and invite him to discuss. Yesterday in the Budget Committee, you could have stayed, not left, and listened to the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. [[Applause from GERB]] To hear what the objections are. And thirdly, Minister Kalfin serves the bureaucracy part of the group, which solves structural problems in the budget at European level. And if the budget is improved at European level, this will also have an effect on Bulgaria. Furthermore, here today we decide what the budget looks like, and the minister has no bearing on it, so be more precise at other times. [[Laughter at BSP LB.]] Maybe you're looking for a reason to leave the room again. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u170	Second line? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Yesterday I was not on this Commission, however, I asked the Minister: how will the Ministry represented by him deal with the horrific unemployment and demographic collapse in the Vidin region? Apart from all the naked statistics, he told me that in practice the Ministry has no such policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u172	What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u173	I'll get to her. In fact, the fight against unemployment, against the demographic collapse, will happen with European programmes. My reply is to you: can European programmes replace state policy with regard to combating unemployment, demographic collapse, with social payments, in general the social development of the state?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u174	Are you asking Mr. Stoinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u175	Third line? Hole, Mr. Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u176	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Todorova, with all due respect to Minister Kalfin, I understand that he wants to fix European policy, but first it is good to correct his Bulgarian policy because he is elected by us and his place is precisely here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u177	Not by you!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u178	I mean from the Bulgarian Parliament. What is happening in Bulgaria is really unacceptable. By November 30, we had to have this plan to deal with the demographic crisis! Where's that plan? He's gone! The Minister does not implement a decision of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u179	We're at second reading!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u180	Of course. If it is so insignificant, which I do not believe to be so, perhaps some GERB representative will take the attitude and explain it to us. As for Mr. Popov's line. The European programmes, Mr. Popov, are designed to complement national policy! Unfortunately, in Bulgaria we use European programmes as the main instrument for policy implementation! We are proud that 80% of the public funds that the state spends are European funds. This is unacceptable if we want to have a sustainable growth economy. If we continue in the same way, nothing good awaits us. It is not a coincidence that this economic growth is at stake of 2.1%. How's that gonna happen? GERB explains the increase in consumption. And how will consumption increase, ladies and gentlemen? By increasing the minimum wage from 380 to 420 BGN.! All international financial institutions have made it clear that such economic growth is unfortunately unrealistic. We therefore believe that there are no policies in this budget as a whole to stimulate economic growth! There is not a single word about reform or how the reform will be financed, or what this reform will lead to! In Bulgaria, especially right-wing politicians, believe that reform is only when you cut costs, but here to talk about efficiency, about the efficiency of funds. Not at all! This is another budget we watched last year. Isn't that right, Mrs. Stoyanova?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u181	You've got it all wrong!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u182	Absolutely the same budget with no policy, with no goals [[Replications by rapporteur Menda Stoyanova]] With no priorities! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u183	Any other MPs? Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u184	Madam President, honourable Members, looking at this House, we are in a unique situation for the history of the budgets of Europe and beyond. Look! There is not a single representative of the government of the Republic of Bulgaria. I have no recollection of this happening for nearly 30 years. There is no parliament in Europe that will discuss the budget without any government representative. Secondly, not a single statement from the government, not a single defence. In this regard, Madam President, I suggest we invite Mr. Prime Minister's cleaning lady to come so we don't feel shy. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u185	Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u186	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u187	Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u188	Thank you, Madam President. In view of the forthcoming vote you have just announced, I propose a roll call procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u189	Lists! Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is off. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - absent Dimitar Angelov Gorov - here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - absent Dimitar Krumov Tanev - absent Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - here Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - absent Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - absent Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - absent So far after their call in alphabetical order in the hall are present: Valentin Nikolov "GERB," Boris Yachev, Dimitar Krumov Tanev, Jayhan Ibryamov, Krasimir Yankov, Krasimir Karakachanov and Diana Yordanova. There is a quorum. There's a vote coming up. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u190	Thank you, Madam President. After the morning you deprived the Bulgarian citizens of direct broadcast on BNT and BNR, now this procedural grip and scheming for a roll call census of the quorum was made to deprive the opposition of the opportunity to do so at a later stage when the government had left. That is why it is also my procedure to get the vote going by getting up and saying who voted how. Colleagues, don't hide behind the nameless button. As we say at our end, let's see who's best man and who's best man and who's gonna vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u191	Mr. Popov, who in the group's leadership has authorized you? From Mr. Chavdar Georgiev you are authorized on behalf of the group, as the first row with the leading factors of your group are not in the Chamber. Ah, here comes Mrs. Ninova. A counteroffer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u192	Dear Madam President, I'm making a reverse proposal. Obviously, some Members have not yet understood that the way of voting through the electronic system is not anonymous. This one first. Secondly, I understand the wishes of colleagues. They have a convention. They want to make a statement. [[Arrival in GERB.]] We can even see it from the speeches. Let's vote the way we vote. I'm making a reverse offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u193	We are voting on the motion made.. the vote on art. 1 to be in the order of art. 63, p. 3 Getting up from a place of roll call in alphabetical order and responding with a...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We vote. Vote 137 MPs: 24, against 98, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, we're going to vote. Firstly, I am voting on the proposal of the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 130 MPs: 27, Against 56, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 134 MPs: 30, against 74, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 1 in the version of the Commission report with its three subparagraphs and tables. They voted 143 MPs: 112, against 26, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u194	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted negatively under art. 1 of the State Social Security Budget Act for three main reasons. The first reason is that once again we are witnessing the formation of a budget where the revenue part is greatly underestimated so that those who perform it can live in comfort at the expense of everyone else. Secondly, I voted against it because once again, GERB proves that for him poverty, social benefits, maternal aids, children with disabilities, unemployed people do not matter because they do not form their constituents. The fewer and physically destroyed, the greater the chance GERB to win elections again. The third thing I voted against is that I cannot understand how the right party does not agree with the proposal of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, where, notice, we propose by about 285 million to reduce transfers from the state budget to public security something that should be offered by the right and not the left. This shows once again that colleagues from GERB are playing games with numbers that have nothing to do with real life. Unfortunately, real life will soon remind them of itself. [[Strong noise in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u195	Mrs. Stoyanova, under art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u196	Under art. 2 there is a proposal of the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs in art. 2 the following amendments shall be made: 1.In para. 2: (a) In row I, expenditures and transfers, everything and row 1 shall be replaced by (b) In row 1.1 (c) Row 1.1.1. The number "7 654 959,9" is replaced by "7 650 149,1" at the expense of the State Social Security. 2. In para. 3 in line "Deficit" (Deficit) is replaced by "Deficit" (Deficit) 4 353 296 (Deficit) is replaced by "Deficit" (Deficit) - 4 348 486.1 "Deficit" (Deficit) is replaced by "Deficit" (Deficit") - 4 353 296 (Deficit) is replaced by "Deficit" The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. (1) It shall adopt the budget of the Fund for the revenue and transfers of a total of 3 339 019,8 thousand. BGN, as follows: (Table.) (2) It shall adopt the budget of the Fund for the expenditure and transfers of a total of 7 690 316,7 thousand. BGN, as follows: (Table.) (3) Adopts deficit under the Fund's budget of the Pepsi Fund as follows: Deficit 4 351 296.9 thousand. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u197	The debate under art. Two is open. There aren't any. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 130 MPs: 16 against 49, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 2 in its version of the Commission report. 125 MPs voted: 97, against 20, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u198	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 3, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u199	Statements? I won't. We vote on importing members 3, 4 and 5, supported by the Commission. Vote 124 MPs: 95 against 17, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u200	Under art. 6 has a proposal of Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: Art. 6 is amended as follows: Art. 6. (1) It shall adopt the budget of the General Sickness Fund under the revenue and transfers of a total amount of 802 620.8 thousand. BGN, as follows: (Table.) (2) It shall adopt the budget of the General Disease Fund for expenditure and transfers of a total amount of 892 596,9 thousand. BGN, as follows: (Table.) (3) Adopts deficit in the budget of the General Disease Fund as follows: (Table.) The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u201	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u202	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Here our proposal concerns increasing the compensation of insured mothers for raising a young child in the second year of maternity from 340 to 420 BGN. About a week ago, since I submitted a bill to supplement the Social Security Code, where there is a text, I propose that the compensation for raising a child from one to two years should be equalised to the minimum wage. The representatives of GERB then told me that they could not bind him to the minimum wage, because this principle was not good, especially that the World Bank is against social payments to be tied to the minimum wage. Here, at your attention you see that it is not tied to the minimum wage. I suggested it because until now, whenever GERB has not managed, it was equal to the minimum wage. Someone will say, "Okay, what have you done?" When we raised the minimum wage to 310 BGN, this compensation became 310 BGN when we raised to 340 BGN. The compensation also became 340 BGN. I'm addressing you, Mr. Tsvetanov, as you are in charge of the group. It would be nice not to share the children with which party they belong, but to truly unite, because this concerns the future of the country. This is about the mothers who have provided themselves, the mothers who have worked, for those who pay their insurance. It is normal for this compensation to be equal to the minimum wage. Again, we have a huge problem here. Mr. Kalfin had to present his concept of how he is dealing with the demographic crisis. We see that he is gone, that is, we have to guess how he is doing. Let's raise it to £420 anyway. If something is worth it in the whole big law to be supported and united, I assure you, that is exactly what it is. Isn't that right, Mrs. Stoyanova?! That's right! Let's really unite. It's about children, so we can help their families. Again, this is not about parents who don't work, about those who don't pay their insurance. On the contrary, it is about those who are clean in front of the law that this compensation is equal to BGN 420. In our opinion, of course, the Ministry will say, and from the finances, it is 39,000. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. This is about Bulgarian children. Let us, for once, unite one point in this budget, because this is really worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u203	- What's the line? Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u204	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Stoynev, just now a member of your parliamentary group uses the expression game with numbers. I think we can use the expression "popular" here as well. Now the minimum wage is 380 BGN. If we remove from it personal taxes and insurance, the net amount of the minimum wage will be BGN 297. Less than BGN 340 The same is the setup if we remove personal insurance and taxes from 429 BGN, which will be the minimum salary next year, 329 BGN, and will still be less than 340 BGN. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] When the minimum wage is increased, then perhaps it will make sense. You make an offer empty of content. As far as demographic policy is concerned, I didn't want to go into detail before, but we still have to say that part of the report was delayed by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Otherwise the minister is ready and on 16 December it will be imported, so calm down on this topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u205	Second line? I won't. Mr. Standin' in the hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u206	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Todorova, I have a feeling that when you hear from Ivaylo Kalfin and if you don't jump into the stands to protect him, there's no one to protect him. [[Applause and excitement.]] Take it easy! We respect the Minister. Look, what you said is outrageous! You have to take that back. Of course, I leave aside that this discussion is for another article..................................................................................... 12, which is your argument. You'll take a good look at the Bill and join in, I hope, then pò in depth. This is about, again, an unwritten rule that was repealed in 2009. Again, compensation for the mothers who are insured is not about the others, equaling the minimum wage. GERB canceled it as they estimated. For three and a half years, it's been stalling. The government of Plamen Oresharski came, which raised this compensation twice. Now that the minimum wage will become 420 BGN, it is normal to continue with this policy. You say it shouldn't be tied to the minimum wage. Your right! Then make some kind of a gesture. You can't tell people that, you see, they don't need to increase that compensation. Step out in front of a mother and say, "To you, 340 BGN." You are very good at it, and you should not increase it to 420 BGN. Let her decide whether or not you're right. I believe that when it comes to children, it is quite normal to unite and support mothers and fathers, of course, who raise their children in very difficult conditions. We see that it is a second budget, Mrs. Stoyanova, where this compensation does not increase.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u207	Mr. Stoynev!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u208	Maybe I'll say something about Ivaylo Kalfin again, so I'll be waiting for you in the stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u209	Mr. Stoyanov, if you want to clarify something with Mrs. Stoyanova, that in the towers. Talking to her all the time and talking to her... [[National Representative Menda Stoyanova wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] Here, now he wants the way he is, because I didn't react, Mr. Stoinev. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u210	Madam President, I am doing a procedure in the way you conduct the sitting on two subjects. Firstly, I believe that you do not follow the Rules of Procedure and allow speeches, lines and duplicates to be made here outside the specific articles that are being discussed. I would like to remind you that this is a second-reading session, and text by text is discussed, not general talk or other texts that will follow. Secondly, I'm not happy that you didn't comment on Mr. Stoinev. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] Mr. Stoynev insults by the fact that the government divides the children on a party basis. I think he divides them into a party principle, especially that the majority of Mr. Stoinev's voters seem to be out of fertility age. [[Applause and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u211	Adopting applause from the entire plenary sector. We're moving on. Mr. Ermenkov's speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u212	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I had no intention of speaking on the subject, but when, here on the left, there are people who pretend to be socially oriented, and they do their best to reduce social benefits and even claim that they are more than they should be getting at the moment, somehow they seem strange to me. Because when we talk about mothers and their benefits, I just want to remind colleagues from GERB a small incident that was about two years ago with those mothers with carts who were outside the parliament and who protested precisely that their aid had been frozen. Please, let us not, however, make policy about whether someone is fertile or not in infertile age! Let's not make a policy about whether mothers deserve more or less money, because each of you, if you're not a mother, will probably have a relative who will soon be in this situation. When we talk about a country in which the Constitution is written that it is social, it is good to comply with this thing and to provide at least that little thing that will not collapse the budget of the state, but at least it will be a gesture to the mothers who, in this difficult situation, have decided to give birth to both their children and that they pay their contributions because it is these mothers that are involved. So let us support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u213	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u214	Colleagues, regarding the three budget laws, I say in principle, our differences are emerging. You, the majority, are looking at the Budget Act, as your representative said...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u215	Ms. Ninova, according to the procedure of Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, I am obliged to make a comment and to bring you back to the debate on the specific text of the specific law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u216	Now! We're looking at the benefit for the parental benefit. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova sees this Fund as "Zesel Kolyo," I quote. We see this work as a senior piloting of policy, in this case demographic policy. And since none of you are speaking, I will now become Mrs. Stoyanova's role. You take higher compensation from mothers by raising the minimum wage. The maternity insurance is a percentage of the minimum wage. Raising the minimum wage and taking more money. So Kolyo took more money from them. However, at the exit under art. 6, which we are discussing now, you are freezing their money from 2014. So, where is your take Kolyo, gave Kolyo? You don't even fulfill your philosophy. However, as regards policy making and demographic policy. Why are you guys talking about this here? Today there was a protest of mothers with children outside. Did either of you find out? All day long the babies in the carts with the inscriptions: there is no budget for me. Which one of you went out to see these people? Why didn't you go to them and tell them these arguments? Finally, what we propose is the most simple step towards improving the demographic situation. Mrs. Todorova, the Minister will probably submit the Demographic Development Strategy within the time limit. I don't doubt it. However, it will remain an empty document without any action, as there is not one lev in the budget to finance demographic policy. And what if he's gonna bring us three good-willed papers, since there's no financial insurance in the budget for these measures? Last time I heard the Deputy Prime Minister of Bulgaria say that refugees are welcome to solve our demographic problem, I thought it was some kind of joke and my sense of humor didn't catch it. However, now that I see what you're proposing in the budget, I understand that this woman was taking herself seriously and was serious about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u217	Any lines to Mrs. Ninova? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 122 MPs: 43, against 37, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u218	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, although there is no Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy in this House to take account...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u219	Who? Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u220	I think some of my colleagues have missed this vote, so I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u221	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 129 MPs: 44, against 53, abstentioned 32. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 6 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 130 MPs: for 89, against 20, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u222	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I voted against this text because those who supported it do not give the opportunity to have the prospect of giving birth to children for raising young children. None of those who defend the text we adopted explained and did not give numbers how much money was saved by the reduced number of born children during 2015 what is the forecast for 2016 and how much money will be saved just because we do not support families in Bulgaria to give birth, to think about more children. I'm telling you this as a person, as a parent, as a father to three children, only born in another government, under other circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u223	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Any other negative votes? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u224	Under art. 7 has a proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: Art. 7 is amended as follows: Art. 7. (1) It shall adopt the budget of the Fund "Unemployment" for revenue and transfers of a total amount of 221 901.6 thousand. BGN, as follows: Table. (2) The budget of the Fund shall be adopted by the General Budget of the European Union for expenditure and transfers of a total amount of 324 752.1 thousand. BGN, as follows: Table. (3) Adopts deficit in the budget of the Fund Table. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 in column 2 of row I Costs and transfers The number of social benefits and benefits is 324 752.1 and is replaced by 329 562.9. In para. 3 column 2, of row "Deficit (-), excess (+) "the number" ==References====External links==*Further readings==*Further readings==*Further readings==*Further readings==*Further The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u225	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u226	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Here, our proposal is to increase the insurance for the fund. Unemployment rate by 1%, i.e. from 1% to 2%. According to our estimates, budget revenues will increase by 222 million. BGN, i.e., as the right hand likes, there should be no deficit funds. I believe that this is really how this fund will not have a deficit. However, here, ladies and gentlemen, the debate must be much bigger, and I hope, because Mr. Kalfin is not here, that they will come out of the ABB and replicate me, we must see if our current system can withstand the current level of insurance contributions. I say this very responsibly because, when the real pension reform began, it was a real social security reform in 2000, then there are really extremely high insurance thresholds that allowed this system almost to endure itself. Yes, of course, with a much smaller contribution from the state, but there was one such idea of self-retention. Over the years that have gone by, unfortunately, there has been a reduction in these insurance contributions, which has led to a greater participation by the state in the insurance system. That is why we propose not to increase the insurance significantly, but precisely to raise for the "Unemployment" fund, as we believe that by increasing from 1 to 2 per cent the people themselves who will benefit from this unemployment benefit will also have a correspondingly greater income in quotes when it is precisely this time that they turn to the insurance system. We believe that this is fair, because over the years this daily minimum amount of unemployment benefit has not been increased and it can really increase at BGN 12.00 Of course, the question is: where will the money come from? The money will come with this 1%. There's nothing wrong with that, there's nothing to be afraid of. We are very, very far from these levels as the volume of insurance contributions that are at the beginning of the reform in 2000. I believe that this is the right step to balance the system, even more so, and the state will be free of a huge resource that it gives to maintain this system. Here the question is: do we want to continue to support a system which, supposedly, is supported by insurance, only we see that these levels of insurance are so low that they do not allow the system to be supported on its own, and we must each time vote on a budget with which it is this insurance system that we are reading? Or should we really raise from 1 to 2% this compensation, which, I assure you, will in no way affect employers? From 1 to 2%, even more so, that there will be an allocation, so it is not such a burden, although in the insurance legislation I do not like, when it comes to the contribution of insurance, to talk about a burden, I believe that this is the right step, which, on the one hand, will completely eliminate the deficit in the fund of unemployment and, on the other hand, we will also increase the compensation of the unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u227	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u228	Colleagues, I complete Mr. Stoinev's statement. It concerns 21,000 unemployed people who receive minimal compensation. Our proposal to increase this compensation will cost about 9 million. lv. additional budget. I add another argument, it belongs to the International Labour Organisation, where it is said that this compensation should be 60%. Sixty percent represents exactly our proposal of BGN 7.20. 12,00 BGN. to increase this compensation. There's another argument. For years this contribution was reduced, but then unemployment was low, it was 5.6%, Mr. Ademov, if I recall, in previous governments. Now the high unemployment rate, which is maintained for years, and for next year the budget is not intended to decrease significantly, also requires an increase in this unemployment contribution rate for these people. I also hope that with these additional arguments I can persuade you to support our proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u229	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u230	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I really invite you to support this proposal because we are usually accused as a left-wing party that we are more cost-effective and have been very strong there. However, this is about revenue, after all. It is really about an increase in incomes in the Fund as well, and thus its deficit will be liquidated. It's that instead of 221 million, I'm talking about 442. If I'm wrong, it won't be much. It is really about ensuring that those funds, which will meet the requirement for unemployment benefits, which will be 60%, and not, as we are now, will get a little lower. Please be reasonable, let us not vote on something that the opposition is proposing only because the opposition is proposing it. Agree that there is also a binding of the numbers to each other, there is no violation of the general budgetary framework. I'm really asking you because it's about people who get into an unemployment situation. You know how hard it is to find a job now. At least there should be some worthy, if not quite, at least a minimum of income that can allow them to survive, if not, like normal people, at least to survive physically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u231	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I understand your desire to balance the fund. In order to balance the budget of state social security from the current 19.5% insurance contributions for all health insurance risks, this means that we need to increase the social security contribution by as much to balance all funds. If we decide to balance only and only the Fund.Unemployment, you are right, but if we want to balance all the funds of state social security, another type of policy is required. Are we in a position that employers in Bulgaria can withstand such an increase in social security contributions? This is a serious argument and I know that you understand that this is a serious argument.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u233	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Any other lines? Mr. Ermenkov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u234	You're right, Dr. Ademov. There's no question about that thing. However, as you have just heard, we must start somewhere first, at least start at the Unemployment Fund. We can't really start anywhere at once. The building's built a little bit. The first stone is the main stone, that's where the other construction begins. The second thing: if you notice, then we also propose raising the maximum social security threshold, which will lead to additional revenue in public insurance, which will also lead to and help balance the funds. So what we are proposing is not just so at the moment because it is beautiful, but because we have considered it because we think it is beneficial to the people, to the majority of people who are poor and not rich in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u235	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is a proposal not only from the opposition, but also from the government for change and increase of funds for the Fund. Our proposal is related to an increase in the amount from BGN 7.20 to BGN 8 which nominally reflects an increase in costs by 5 million. lv. Unfortunately, our proposal was not accepted for these funds to be at the expense of the Fund's funds, particularly in the part of the disability pensions, where we believe that this year's proposals we are making would give the opportunity to have a reduction next year, i.e. resource savings. So we had found a source for this reduction. Unfortunately, this was not accepted. Nevertheless, if this increase in costs is accepted, it will practically grow into an additional deficit which, during the year and in the cost savings of other feathers, could be covered. So I suggest you support our proposal. It is a very minimal increase in unemployment benefit from BGN 7.20 to BGN 8 which, once again, would cost the budget around 5 million. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u237	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u238	Dear colleagues, if our proposal for an increase of BGN 12 is not supported, we will support yours, although we consider it insufficient. My question to you in the form of a line is: exactly how did you decide it was 8 leva.? Our proposal rests on the research of the International Labour Organisation, which says:.60% compensation...... therefore 12 BGN........................................................................................... How exactly did you determine it was 8? Since the source you have pointed out has not been accepted, I suggest that the source of these funds, if the increase is accepted, be the increase in the social contribution that comes from the increase in the minimum wage, as unemployment is a percentage of this minimum wage. So from there there was an increase that could come here as a cost for an increase in compensation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u239	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u240	Dear Mrs. Ninova, thank you for your support. I hope so with the vote. I believe that it is more important to have reservations, it is more important if there are savings, that they be used for this, and not that we are looking for an increase in social security contributions. In this sense, I believe that the better option is to find funds within the framework of savings. As to how we determined this amount of 8 BGN, of course, what you say follows its logic from 7,20 BGN to 12 BGN, which is 60% of the minimum wage. But we believe that we could not support such a huge increase. Firstly, on the one hand, those funds that would be received from the unemployed would in no way be a good incentive for people not to be involved in the labour market. On the other hand, we believe that the increase in the minimum wage 2016 compared to 2015 is about 10%, and on this basis we have set foot to increase this payment from BGN 7.20 to BGN 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u241	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u242	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to refer to one additional element of this debate on this particular text. First, as you can see, the position of the Reformation Block is that a small increase in this payment is useful, because indeed 7.20 for many years frozen at this level is below all existential minimums. Why, however, are we against a double increase and why are we strongly opposed to an increase in the contribution to this fund in order to cover even with an excess of this increase? I am impressed that both in the debate on the previous text and in the debate on the current text, BSP insists on increasing payments that are a priori contributively inappropriate. In other words, payments for which the insurance contribution at present levels fails in any way to justify what is currently being paid. We all know that maternity is practically dominated by other social security funds, that is, conditionally speaking, by people who are provided without becoming mothers without bearing that risk. So is unemployment in this particular case being a dotted and non-contributive payment. Because if someone has provided themselves with a minimum wage and has lost their job, covering the social risk of unemployment, they will receive far above BGN 7.20. per day under normal legal amounts of unemployment benefit. In this case, however, these levels are for people who do not have a full contribution even to a minimum wage and for this reason even these 7,20 or according to our proposal 8 BGN. a day, have essentially the nature of social assistance. I mean, it's money that's paid for by the insurance of other working people. And another substantial argument against the increase in the contribution. There's no room for ideology here. Colleagues, let's see the employment and unemployment profile in Bulgaria, to find that, apart from the first traumatic months of the 2009 crisis, unemployment already has a completely lasting and structural character. It covers, above all, circles and persons who fail for social and family reasons to adapt to the labour market, and not people who, for significant periods of their lives, are properly provided, and then, due to the occurrence of market circumstances or personal failures, remain unemployed. We cannot fight a structural problem, a social problem with an increase in contributions. What you're offering is to the people who work, who no one fires and who are systematically sought in the labour market, but are not found, we raise their insurance. I stress the people who are working, not employers, because this is a allocated contribution of 60% to the employer, but 40% to the worker. To increase the taxation on them by, as far as I can see, 100 million levs a year, against which to double the payments of people who are unadapted in the labour market, who are not working, who are victims of other social problems, and not victims of the labour market conjuncture, is anything but a solution to the real problem. This is a deepening of the problem with the accumulation of new, new and new insurance tax payments on workers in order to pay increased funds to those who do not work, whether due to reluctance, whether due to certain social circumstances that do not allow them to enter the labour market. If we're going to fight something, if we're going to put money into it, let's bring this debate into the Republican budget debate, move it into measures to overcome social segregation, move it into measures to promote social inclusion, but really where the disease is, where the problem is, and not just stick another percentage of insurance on the income of those who work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u243	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? Mr. Stoyanov, then Mrs. Nino and Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u244	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kanev! However, this system is based on the principle of solidarity. If you're suggesting that everyone is on their own, this is now a completely different debate. But here this topic is based on solidarity. Isn't that right? After all, if what you say and stand by your words, then, ladies and gentlemen, let's listen to the right side of this House and remove, for example, social pension. With the same argument, you can go out and tell why a person should take a social pension, given that there is neither internship nor age, come on, age may have. But in the end, what did this man do to contribute? Same goes for here. My fellow Members, if we are going to shift the debate, if we are going to change the whole system, I am in favour, but I believe that here we have a retreat from what was created in 2000 because then indeed this system could have worked at far greater levels of social security contributions. It is true that the first retreat began by the government of Ivan Kostov, which in 2000 reduced them by 2%. But then the other governments were wrong, because right now we're doing the dots instead of using money for health care, for education, we're de facto pulling out of the budget. Why? Because we've reduced those social security contributions, which in no way contribute to an adequate payment. So I can't agree that someone, for example, fell into some kind of risk and had no opportunity to provide enough for us to cross it off. Why didn't you support what we offered 15 minutes ago for those mothers who have secured themselves for this risk, who are working on it, who are paying their taxes and insurance? Why not raise this allowance for raising children from 1 to 2 years, provided that the demographic problem becomes a problem of national security? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u245	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Second line, Mr. Ademov, then Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kanev, I understand that this is a principled dispute, a principled approach between supporters of left and right policies. But when we are talking about unemployed, and in this case, it is about incomes and expenditures of the "Unemployment" fund, I think we should not share the unemployed with those who keep them left-oriented and right-oriented political forces. What do I want to tell you? The right to unemployment benefit shall have those workers and employees who have at least 9 months of insurance service over the past 15 months. It's about law. As far as the amount of compensation is concerned, it is 60% of the insurance income in those months that I am talking about. From there on, however, who are entitled to minimum unemployment benefit? These things need to be clear. Those who are disciplinaryly dismissed; those who have been released by mutual agreement; those who have received unemployment benefits twice over the last 3 years. These are basically categories that are entitled to minimum compensation. So these people should not be divided by any other signs beyond the signs of the labour market. This is my request that we don't share them in the left and right, and they're unemployed. Those who receive unemployment benefits in Bulgaria are about 91,600 people per year - one third or one quarter of these are on minimum unemployment benefits. So this discussion, in my opinion, is not so important in terms of state social security priorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u247	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Mrs. Stoyanova, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u248	Mr. Kanev, you are really right when you say that such an increase in the contribution would burden workers and employers who correctly pay their taxes and insurance. But you're not right about people using them, who at one time or another are at risk and have fallen out of the social system. Let's call things by their real names. They will be used by those people, Mr. Ademov listed some of them, but he missed a category who worked part-time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u250	We all need to be clear and admit that a large part of people who are not full-time are on the same side with their employers. But they don't get half a salary for this part-time job, Mr. Kanev. I think that's clear to everyone. They get full-time wages because they do full-time work. And again we will burden those who are correct to the budget, who pay for full-time the real salary and pay for it insurance and taxes, at the expense of the incorrect. I would continue the enumeration in relation to the example of which Mr. Ademov said.......................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u251	By mutual agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u252	It is there of its own accord, above all, because if it does not have its own will, there is no mutual agreement, with the clear aim of going to the Labour Bureau and receiving one year's unemployment benefit and in this year to work in black. That's the truth, Mr. Kanev, we have to say it right here, from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u253	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Dear Mr. Kanev, I'd like you to come in and get me a coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u254	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will not answer to Mrs. Stoyanova because she in a hard version supports what I said, but will respond to Mr. Stoyanov and Mr. Ademov. Mr. Stoynev, in the Reformation Block, we are far from the logic that everyone should be able to deal with it on their own. We have a long enough history of debates on social issues with both you and Mr. Ademov to let you know that we are supporters of the social market economy, but social market economy, not socialism. We are strong supporters of solidarity in social and especially in social security systems. However, solidarity does not mean a waste of public funds which is to the detriment of those who have worked and provided themselves conscientiously, but for the benefit of those who, for considerable periods of time, have not worked, but will, as a result of your proposal, receive the very same social security rights. And I will immediately give you an example of what is not solidarity. As you said, Mr. Ademov 9 of the last 15 months is enough to be entitled to unemployment benefits. I am now telling you that if we accept not the smooth increase offered by the Reformation Block, but the sharp, double increase that you are proposing, we will get the following paradox, a person who has been working for the past 15 months, [[Replication of National Representative Hassan Ademov]] , of which 9 months on a part-time basis, will receive approximately the same compensation to the one who has worked all 15 months on a full-time basis. Here, this thing is not called "solidarity," it is the worst form of lack of solidarity and justice. This solidarity will in fact provide it as the one who has been working for all 15 months, providing for real income and full-time, tapping it another 1%, that is, 0.4% for him personally on salary as a contribution. To increase from BGN 7.20. 8 leva. is solidarity, but from BGN 7.20. 12 leva. is an injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u255	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will support our proposal and vote against the Commission's proposal because there is no way to explain to the people of Northwestern Bulgaria, where in some municipalities unemployment reaches 70 percent and more than 70% that the state punishes them for failing to fulfil another obligation of its own to provide investments, jobs, to provide an opportunity to work and provide them. Colleagues, it's impossible with BGN 7.20. to ask these people to be part of our society, to be responsible for their social development in this doom and murderous poverty! I will vote for the increase of these aids and benefits from 7,20 to 12,00 BGN. I hope you will also support him, having a sense of justice and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u257	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 117 MPs: 30, Against 55, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 112 MPs: 38, against 18, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 7, which is supported by the Commission and finds its place in its report. Vote art. 7 on the Commission report. They voted 123 MPs: 89, against 18, abstention 16. Article 7 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u258	Under art. 8 there is a proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. (1) Accepts the budget of the National Insurance Institute for Revenue and Transfers of a total of 4 billion. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, $264,000. BGN, as follows: The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 708,8,000. BGN, as follows: The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u259	I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for art. 8 in the Commission's version according to its report. They voted 105 MPs: 102, against 1, abstention 2. Article 8 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u260	Under art. 9 has a proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9, para 1, t. 3 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: (a) c. 3 the number (b) c. The 4th number "six hundred' is replaced by two hundred and twenty-eight hundred and twenty-six hundred and twenty-six hundred The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Stefan Kenov and a group of MPs: In art.9: a) in al. 1 t. 2 is amended as follows: The minimum monthly amount of the insurance income for self-insuring persons is 450 BGN. - in t. 3 the sum of BGN330 is amended to BGN 300 - in t. 4 the sum of BGN 2600 is amended to BGN 2860 (b) para. Two down. (c) para. 3 to be absorbed. The Commission does not support the proposal referred to in points (a) and (b) and (b) and (c) of paragraph (d) of this Article. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u261	You have the floor for speeches, Members of Parliament. Mr. Dimitar Bayraktarov, come in. Then Mr. Ademov, Mr. Kenov, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Strange was the silence of examining art. 8. I expected there to be a stormy debate here on how to compensate for the deficit, because what is at stake in art. 8 is a shortage of funds, and that is within 4 billion. Seven hundred million. lv.! Interesting why no one came out to say: "People, let's see how this deficit, a shortage that is paid precisely by honest and honest taxpayers, is melted!??. Full silence from both left and right and front. [[Replications by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] That was the crucial moment. I heard colleagues who said that the system was subject to the principle of solidarity, but they conveniently failed to read the Law and clarify that this system, apart from the principle of solidarity, is also subject to the principle of equality, i.e. the subjects are equal. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] That's right, Dr. Ademov. I have no doubt you know the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u263	Mr. Bayraktarov, please focus on art. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u264	It would be good to make a remark that they call and distract me, not me to make a remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u265	I am making a note to you not to engage in dialogue with the House. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u266	And you make a remark, as the Rules require!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u267	In addition to the House, please do not enter into dialogue with me as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u268	And you, too, Mr. Chairman. [[Laughter, excitement.]] Don't interrupt me all the time! I have the right to motivate myself, to argue, not to do censorship lines behind my back here. Learn that you are first between equals. [[Laughter, excitement.]] I'm moving on. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 Once again, a group of people is placed in a privileged position. These are the so-called producers of tobacco producers who are once again subject to a minimum insurance threshold of 330 BGN. These people are part of the huge deficit or pump the deficit. They're doomed to poverty, first. Secondly, any normal person who knows how much tobacco is produced by a acres of land should know that the minimum production is within 1.5-2 tonnes. This means in the case of purchased revenue between 7 and 10 thousand. lv. Guys, now look what you're betting. You have bet for self-insuring persons who have income up to BGN 5400, much lower than these so-called farmers, to be provided on BGN 420, without anyone asking them how they will earn these funds, and those who have income up to BGN 6500, already on BGN 450. Well, I'm asking, where is the principle of equality here? [[Presidents change.]] So, Mr. Chairman, take the pen and write down my proposal, please, for a correction in...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u269	I remember. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u270	I'm sorry, you've changed. To correct in art. 9, para. 1, t. 3 the number..330..420................................................................................................................................................................... 6, Dr. Ademov, for equality between subjects. As self-insuring individuals are provided to 420 BGN, and many of these self-insuring individuals, colleagues on the left, are mothers who raise children, let me now see how you will proceed, as well as tobacco producers, and farmers to be provided on this amount, as is appropriate. The law must apply equally to all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u271	Mr. Bajraktarov, just repeat: the Commission supports the text of the importer for art. 9. You in the text of the importer for art. 9 what do you suggest?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u272	I do in art. 9, para. 1, t. The 3 numbers..300..
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u273	Point 3: Minimum monthly amount for insurance income for registered farmers and tobacco producers...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u274	That's right. The number to be replaced by the number to be replaced by the number to be replaced by the number to be replaced by the number to be I repeat again to respect the Law and the principle of equality of subjects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u275	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u276	Thank you, Madam President. Our proposal is in art. 9, p. 3 the number..330. to be replaced by the number.300. It is about the minimum insurance income of farmers and tobacco producers. Dear colleagues, at 29.3% social and health insurance, monthly contribution to farmers and tobacco producers at 300 BGN. It's 96.69 leva. The annual contribution is BGN 1160.28. The absolute increase is 105.42 BGN, which represents almost 10% increase. The paces of growth in social and health contributions are significantly behind the rate of growth of farmers' incomes and tobacco producers. I'm also telling you something else at £420. minimum insurance income offered by Mr. Bajraktarov in social health contributions of 29.3%, monthly contributions become BGN 123.06. Monthly installments! The annual contributions are BGN 1476,72. The absolute increase is BGN 421,86. These are accurate, correct calculations. The increase offered by Mr. Bayraktarov is 40%. It is about the huge deficit, which increases the deficit of the budget of state social security, in the case of these 30 BGN. This is a deficit of one and a half million leva, Mr. Bayraktarov. In the event of a deficit of state social security 4 billion. 700 million, you were worried about an increase in deficit by one and a half million?! If you think this is a drastic increase in the budget, come and say it from this tribune. A billion and a half increase in the deficit, given that we are talking about a general deficit of state social security "4 billion." 700 million. In order for the amount of sales revenue to compensate for the increase in insurance contributions, the sales revenue, in order to be able to cover insurance contributions, must be grown cereals between 30 and 40 acres, orchards, three or four acres, vegetable crops, one or two acres, tobacco, it is about Basma, including a subsidy of approximately 3 BGN. Two or three acres, production of milk, one or two cows, sheep farming, eight or nine sheep. These are the decares and, respectively, the animals that must grow the farmer in order to be able to cover the increase in minimum insurance income. I know. You're gonna tell me the principle of equality right now. I mean, this principle is extremely important. You're going to tell me the other principle that the insurance contribution is the one that needs to be consistent. And you will say that farmers do not have a social contribution so that they can receive a minimum wage. Well, can you tell me in the sectors of defense and security, what insurance contributions do they make after the state budget pays them all the insurance contributions and receives the maximum amount of the pension? Can you tell me what social security contributions civil servants are making who don't even pay the personal security contribution? So the huge army of the security sector, the civil servants, we exclude them from all this discussion and stare at eight thousand farmers who are registered only as farmers?! They are registered for all insurance risks and about 20.. 21 thousand, which are registered only for pension and general illness and maternity insurance for general diseases and maternity. So, honourable Members, all of these things must be taken into account, and not guided by any feeling that these are the people who increase the deficit of state social security, which undermine the principles of social security. There's no such thing! These are honest, hardworking farmers. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u277	A line to Mr. Ademov? Mr. Bayraktarov, first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u278	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Ademov, first of all, the numbers you set out don't match the truth at all and the reality. Secondly, at least it seems to you to give such a funny example, because if we think like you, it means that we should also close the education system and not have teachers according to your example.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u279	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u280	Because they don't contribute anything to you either.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u281	That's not true! There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u282	However, these people, the ones that you have edifyingly pointed out to the security people, make sure, first of all, that there is security and that everyone can carry out their activities in a normal environment, and the others that I have pointed out to you, i.e. teachers, make sure that there is a future well prepared through our children. And now, we're going to your readings. First of all, actuarial readings don't speak at all what you say. Because a normal person also pays much higher costs for insurance contributions. Secondly, the deficits that accumulate these people are not just because they don't contribute enough insurance. First, they accumulate deficits from the point of view of the consumption of health services, as their work is such that it leads to severe diseases? You are a doctor and you know it much better than I do, of the type of arthritis, of dispathy and so on. Siej, they become a consumer, first through the health insurance system, and second when it comes time to retire, their contributions, you know very well that they already lead to this huge deficit, which is in the order of about 40 million a year. Forty million! These are the exact estimates, not a million and a half, as you try to insinuate and deceive. And it's not about 7 grand, it's about 70 grand! There's a register. Take a look at it. Don't twist the numbers and the data from this tribune. If you do not know it, the register is accurate and, fortunately, for a year and a half is kept on a regular basis. And lastly, to finish the line, which is the most important thing. Another question is that you yourself used the term "subsidy" that a huge part of them are registered as tobacco producers, and they do not grow tobacco at all and they sharpen the subsidies, which is the other moment! That's the truth!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u283	Second line, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u284	Mr. Ademov, I agree with what you said that such a sharp lifting of the insurance burden of farmers will be a serious burden for them. But I can't help but argue that state social security is not social security after all. I don't want to repeat the principles that were mentioned earlier. But I would like to remind you that last year of this tribune we had a similar debate at the time and then we talked about a gradual, smooth increase in minimum insurance income for farmers because the proposal was also for 420 BGN. And then, if you remember, from 230 we uploaded it to 300 leva. We are now having the same debate again, only we do not want to take a step forward in this smooth increase. I think if we keep doing this, we're getting more and more demotivating the workers, the right ones, the ones in the insurance system. As for civil servants, you must be correct and remind the Chamber that when they were released from the Civil Service Act to pay insurance contributions, that was when their salaries were reduced by this amount. We must not be incorrect and oppose one another's words.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u285	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u286	Thank you, Madam President. I am the last person in social security to oppose individual groups in society. I don't intend to, I've never done it. I'm sorry if you understood me that way. Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, 70. 80 thousand, it is true what you say are registered! Only of them provided for all insurance risks are only 8,000! See the register of the insured in the NSI! Twenty-two thousand are provided for only two risk [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] There is a huge difference between being registered as a farmer in this new register and being registered in the register of insured ones! Only from the register of insured persons is the information that is accurate. As far as civil servants are concerned, In 2012, when the class of civil servants was removed, it entered into the basic salary. Indeed, it was then that the size of the personal contribution was reduced. That is correct, I admit what Mrs. Stoyanova said. However, this is not about a category of insured persons who do not want to pay insurance contributions, but it is about a category of persons who want but cannot, thanks to their lack of regular income! The pace at which we increase insurance contributions cannot be taken into account in the rate of growth of their sales income! There's a huge difference. I just told you the rates between the growth of sales rates, i.e. income rates, and the growth of insurance contributions. Let us not accept them as some privileged part of the society in any way as being privileged. For them the rule applies that the state should assist them not because they do not want to be provided, but because they cannot do so. If we understand this thing more quickly, we will help not only farmers, but also social policy as a whole, because if they cannot be provided, they will be a contingent on social assistance, they will draw other funds from the state. In order not to do so, let us support them with work income.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u287	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. After you, Mr. Kenov is listed for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u288	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, in art. 9 we have made three proposals. First of all, we propose to drop the differentiation in point. 2 of para. 1 by fixing the minimum monthly amount of insurance income for self-insuring persons to BGN 450. Until now, the minimum social security income has always exceeded the minimum wage. With a new minimum wage of 420 BGN. We believe that it is appropriate to raise the minimum insurance income of self-insuring to at least BGN 450. Assuming that perhaps about 90% of self-insuring are provided precisely for this minimum income, we believe that this will also benefit the insurance system. £450. is the normal size of the increase. In terms of t. 3 As Dr. Ademov said, we also want to preserve the insurance income on which farmers and tobacco producers are provided in the country. And not so much to relieve them, not so much to feel privileged as not to be excluded from the insurance system. After all, with this increase that happened last year, what is now being prepared, we are growing the insurance income for them at an enormous rate. When these people with small farms are forced to pay an amount they cannot afford, they are likely to stop paying insurance at all and then it will become the same story again. Ten percent at 300 leva. For this year, it could have been compensated. Last year, I think it was 40 leva. We've increased their insurance income. With regard to maximum social security income. As the minimum wage increases, we believe that gradually over the years, slowly and gradually, the maximum social income must also be increased. Firstly, in order to be able to accumulate more funds in state social security and to be able to ask for an increase in the maximum pension next year. There is a great public expectation to increase the maximum pension, but every reasonable person in this country is aware that if the maximum insurance income does not grow, there is no way to grow the maximum pension. These are our proposals. I think it is wise to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u289	Any lines to Mr. Kenov? I won't. To make a statement, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u290	Madam President, honourable Members! As you can see, there were a lot of arguments in the Chamber related to the proposal, which BSP left Bulgaria makes to preserve the minimum amount of the insurance income of 300 BGN. For a second year in a row in the budget we plan to increase the minimum insurance income from 230 to 300 BGN, now 330 BGN, with various arguments related The first argument in defence of this position is that Bulgarian and European agriculture in 2015 reported a low yield lower than previous years. This is respectively Eurostat statistics. From now on, I would like to ask how, with low yield, especially small and medium-sized farms, can we expect that an increase in the social security amount will lead to the possibility of paying it accordingly? Solidarizing with my colleagues is not that they do not want farmers to pay, they simply cannot do it, and from this point of view they are going to the grey sector where it is almost impossible to make them pay these contributions. In addition, perhaps from budgets that have been made for several years, it is always called farmers and tobacco producers. We must be correct because, after 2011, farmers are one category, tobacco producers were introduced into the system to be registered under Regulation No 3 and are obliged, regardless of what they produce and what size of arable land they have. To introduce an adjustment: the registered farmers under the identification system, on the basis of which they receive subsidies from national and European, are about 130 thousand. Of these farmers, 80% are natural persons who fall into this category, who have to pay precisely the proposed increases in the minimum amount of insurance income. So there's no economic logic. We want to raise some money.. we will not do it, which follows the conclusion that we will not collect it and a large part of these producers will drop out of the support system. I would also like to draw attention to European Union policy, which relates to the need to support small and medium-sized farmers. This policy has its dimensions both in the Rural Development Programme and in a number of schemes that allow them to apply under a relatively light regime. Notice! We had the opportunity for small farmers to apply under a scheme under which they had to receive from 500 to 1200 euros. The initial version of the scheme was interested in 21,000 farmers, but when they saw what the requirements were and accordingly made the estimates of what would be required of them, eventually there were 9,000 left. What does that mean? On the one hand, we give 500-600 euros to the little ones, nothing else, and at the same time we take them with these insurances. In general, the subsidy system in agriculture became a pyramid.. we give some money, we take from individuals, we take from the commercial companies, we make the subsidy and so on, and from this pyramid the state gets from 1 billion gets 100 million, out of 100 million gets 10 million and so on. Insurance just can't be paid. Believe that if you see the economic estimates of the state of Bulgarian agriculture and which are small and medium-sized farmers, you will come to the same conclusion with the arguments I have put before you. Therefore, a second year in a row, the provision of insurance thresholds is, in my opinion, a crime for farmers. It is important to assess their role and work, accordingly to assess that they contribute national product to Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u291	A line to Mrs. Bachvarova? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u292	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, I hope you are well aware and aware of what you just said. You literally, I'm going to rephrase, you said, "Well, colleagues, a group of people can't pay their insurance, let's leave them alone!" That was literally your statement. Do you realize that from this tribune instead of looking for a way to stimulate Bulgarian citizens to import insurance in order to comply with this principle of solidarity already, you say: "Well, there is one group here that can't, won't pay, and everyone else, excuse me for the term, are almost the fools, the donors who have to pay. You said something else: they, farmers, are individuals. Well, 900,000 sole traders are also individuals. One hundred percent self-insuring individuals are also individuals. And now, notice, I'm going to tell you something that's nice to rethink: self-insuring individuals, even if they haven't done business, they still have to be provided. There's another little detail that I don't know why you're not reading it. Have you ever thought about how many people in the family are out of a job and another family member pays his insurance so he can't be excluded from the health care system? Have you thought about it? I'll tell you how much to know over 150 thousand people. Over 150,000 people! Don't these family members have it in them? However, they respect the Law, they respect the principle of solidarity. Last thing I need to do is get it over with because it's nice to know the Social Security Code. [[The President signals that time is running out.]] I'm done, Madam President. You said right now: it's enough, as stated in the Social Security Code, to work for 15 years and at 67 years you have a guaranteed social pension, no problem at all, all the others are one, with an apology, again I say, suckers. [[Noise and lines.]] They'll just pour and the others will use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u293	Second line? Mrs. Bachvarova, a coat?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u294	Madam President, honourable Members! I can't understand how when a man doesn't know anything about agricultural production, he doesn't know the difference between a sole trader. [[noise, lines, applause]] and registered under Ordinance No 3, a natural person, how he comes out and speaks so freely and willingly. Because, sorry, but the yield of agriculture is lower this year than the previous year, which means that this growth cannot be paid. [[(Replications of the n.p.r.s.) Dimitar Bayraktarov.)]] Every farmer wants to pay his insurance. But don't interrupt me, I wasn't interrupting you!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u295	Mr. Bayraktarov, please, this is the back of your line. Listen to her!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u296	Every farmer wants to pay his insurance, he's interested, but when he can't, what will you get him? Tell me! And why is that? He's forced not to. The state must provide conditions. Agricultural production is not like the trader. And stop comparing the farmer with the farmer from last year! One of them is producing. The kind of income you're talking about is nowhere in the world. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u297	It's Mr. Petrov's next speech. Here you go. Then Mrs. Ninova and Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I speak on the occasion of what I have heard from Dr. Ademov, whom I very much respect, a man who says what he really thinks. I heard in his speech that a group of Bulgarian farmers receiving subsidies are not health insurance. I wonder how it's possible that someone gets European subsidies... If they hear this in Europe, they will cause an inspection on this occasion. I hope that's not true! We cannot put in a different situation that part of the farmers dealing with tobacco. Moreover, the sixth year Bulgaria received European subsidies to change the current situation and to transform their activities with something else. They're going to get that money for another five years. People receive them as subsidies, not as transitional aid to reconstruct their production. I have friends in these parts. This morning I spoke to my friend Hake, from Hamburg, the boy called me to ask one question, and I'm telling you, I really have an amazing... [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, yeah, being from the Patriotic Front, can't I have Turkish friends? And what kind of friends do you have there? None.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u299	Please, Mr. Petrov, leave your personal contact.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u300	However, I would like to say that it is outrageous that part of our farmers receive European money and not provide health. I can't figure it out. I hope I got it wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u301	Thank you. Are there any lines to that statement? No. There's a word for it, ma'am...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u302	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u303	No, no, I've announced the speeches. [[Reply.]] I'll give you the floor of procedure, but you'll accept those we've announced to speak after that. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Since Mrs. Nino has been announced, then I will give you the floor of procedure. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Because I've announced the speakers, so I'll give you the floor of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u304	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u305	Mrs. Ninova, come in, then I'll give you the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u306	It's not enough that you don't speak at all, but you want to stop us from doing it. Take it easy, guys! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'll speak in defense of tobacco manufacturers. Whenever we talk about tobacco production, these people have absolutely unfair accusations that are either political or personal or religious and so on. Colleagues, I would like to offer you another argument why we should not increase the minimum insurance threshold of tobacco producers, an argument that has not been heard so far. I suggest that we do not oppose some groups of Bulgarians against other groups. This can only make him weak politicians. Let us try to look at this issue in a complex way between the budget of state social security and the state budget. I heard there was a deficit at the National Insurance Institute because they didn't pay insurance, or they didn't pay as much as others. Dear colleagues, from tobacco production and the accompanying productions in the state budget are 1 billion. 300 million. lv. excise duties and VAT. [[Applause from DPS.]] This money from tobacco and cigarette production is redistributed and filled in the deficit in the NSI and goes for social pensions, for maternity, for unemployment benefits. Why are you cutting down the branch where you sit and providing yourself with the biggest source of revenue in the budget that will serve you to fill deficits wherever you are short of money?! Let's get out of the narrow-sector viewing of the topic of Tutino Production and think about the big one. To create an opportunity for these people to continue to exercise this profession, to watch tobacco, to help them watch it, to bring that 1 billion into the budget. 300 million. BGN, which are extremely necessary because you are in deficit because your economy is not working because you have no growth of gross domestic product, there is no place to take money. Next year and European money is less by 1%, now kill and what is the only serious source of revenue in the budget. Do not do it and accept to keep their insurance at 300 BGN to give them the opportunity to contribute much more afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u307	Thank you. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Ninova, you just said that we should encourage a group of people to continue to be in the 18th century, because this is what is called the Tutuno production in Bulgaria. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Another friend of yours who knew a lot about farming, and now that you've pulled my tongue, I'll tell you what it's all about. [[Laughter and excitement from BSP LB and DPS.]] Those who supposedly couldn't pay their insurance. Dear colleagues, pay attention, ask yourself the question: how are those who supposedly couldn't pay their contributions, pay the expensive agricultural equipment? Tractors, combines and so on? Moreover, if you make a reference, you will see that those who allegedly could not pay their insurance, drive SUVs with prices of not less than 200,000. lv. These are the same ones who couldn't! [[DPS lines.]] And between economics, finance and agriculture, the difference is not very great. Another question is that you don't even understand agriculture, and you don't have a hal haber in economics. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] So when you make qualifications, consider it, because I'm gonna ask myself, who gave you the professorship? Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u309	Don't, Mr. Bayraktarov, and take the role of a scientific jury. Mrs. Ahmedova has the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u310	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Ninova, I'm taking advantage of the right to a line because I understand that the debate is about to end. The main misunderstanding on the subject comes from this, honourable Members, that, when it comes to farmers, one mix of all is taken into account. The main difference we have to make on the subject of farmers' insurance is their separation of small and large because one thing is that the small producer can pay insurance, another is the big producer. Believe me that the big producers have no problem with ensuring.. whether it will be 300 BGN, or 330 BGN, or 1000 BGN, because at the end of the year they equalize their income insurance. The problem is for small producers, as the specifics of agricultural production are such that in the year these people have one turnover, they have one income to pay their annual insurance, which equals over 1000 BGN. This man, in order to be left with a thousand euros, who only have to pay for insurance, must be able to make them out, and he cannot make them out. We force them to go into the social system where they benefit from public resources. Therefore, the problem must be differentiated. Three hundred leva should be reserved for small producers, and the big ones are equalizing their insurance anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u311	Thank you. Do you want a hole, Mrs. Ninova?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u312	Mrs. Ahmedova and I have no differences in what you said, and Mr. Bayraktarov, I intend to leave without attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] I can't lose energy for bullshit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u313	Mr. Ivanov insists on the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose a procedure to end the debate. [[Noise and lines.]] There have been enough speeches from all the political forces, I think we don't need to waste any more time on the people's representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u315	Mr. Stoinev for a reverse procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u316	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm making a reverse proposal because we haven't talked about the maximum insurance income yet, and we have proposals there, too. This does not mean that by running out of only insurance thresholds for farmers, we are exhausting the entire debate on this point. It is my right, as a Member of the National Assembly, to express my opinion and support our position, and I believe that it is wrong in this way to take my word away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u317	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 127 MPs: for 89, against 37, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Revoting Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u318	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm doing a re-voting procedure for a single reason. We're all currently in the hypothesis of conflict of interest, as we all get money over the maximum monthly insurance income.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u319	Malee, do you remember now?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u320	Please reconsider. At least give to hear arguments, and then vote against, if that is your conscience.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u321	And who should vote if we are all in conflict of interest, Mr. Ermenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u322	I asked for a re-vote. If you are about not hearing what this is about, you can support the end of the speeches. That's why I said I was proposing a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u323	It's a re-vote. Vote 136 MPs: 100 against 35, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The debate is over. I put to the vote the proposal of Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 56 against 20, abstention 17. The proposal is not accepted because the quorum is 63. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u324	Mrs. Chairman, I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u325	It's a re-vote. Vote 89 MPs: 64, against 10, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] I'm voting on Mr. Mikov's proposal. The proposal referred to in point (a) (ii) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be submitted to the Commission in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 5 (2) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. The 3th number is identical to what we have already voted on. I therefore put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of Members of the National Assembly under point 4 the number "six hundred" to be replaced by two hundred and twenty-eight hundred. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 149 MPs: 36, against 63, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. The proposal of Mr. Kenov and a group of MPs in the letter....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 9, were actually voted already because we accepted the proposal, which is also the group of the BDZ 4 to replace..2600..2860........................................................................................................ has just been rejected.............................................................................................................................................. It stays under the letter "in." The first is: The minimum monthly amount of the insurance income for self-insured persons will be BGN 450. This proposal is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 135 MPs: 12, against 75, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. The proposal has been made. Under the letter "b".......................................................................................................... 2 to be dropped, it should be put to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Kenov and a group of MPs under the letter "B" in para. Two o'clock to drop. The Commission does not support it. Please vote. They voted 136 MPs: 10, against 27, abstention 99. The offer is not accepted. According to the text of the importer for art. 9, which is supported by the Commission in the Chamber, Mr. Bajraktarov proposed in point. 3 The monthly required amount of insurance income for the registered farmers and tobacco producers instead of Are you withdrawing him, Mr. Bayraktarov? No. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal. They voted 137 MPs: 18, against 52, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 9 by importer, supported by the Commission, by the decision adopted by us to amend in para. 1, t. 3 The number..330. became.300... as a result of our vote. Please vote. 140 MPs voted: 118, against 4, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Under art. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u326	Article 10 supposed by the National Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of Members of the National Assembly: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 10, t. 2 numbers 161,38 leva. is replaced by BGN 171,38 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u327	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, art. 10, which concerns the minimum amount of retirement and age pension, is key. After all, we can state that this may be the result of the so-called pension reform. We see that the minimum pension is now rising by BGN 4.00. Of course, for the two years of government of the current government, the only increase in pension is 2.5% now, with 1.9% last year. It's like everything stops here and there shouldn't be any more debates. In my opinion, there must be a debate, because, ladies and gentlemen, we must ultimately find revenue in this system. If we want to be told how to cut costs by now, even more so, Mr. Kalfin, I repeat, it was Mr. Kalfin who increased internship and age, of course, fully supported by the right hand, something that in every way destroys trust in the system. We all know that right now Bulgarian citizens are completely demotivated. They say: " Will we live to see the years of retirement? Is there any point in providing for ourselves? What kind of pension will we get if we are alive one day to retire? When at the previous point you interrupted me, which is extremely important, it was really about the way the revenues are, Mrs. Stoyanova. You have to show where there will eventually be more revenue in the system. That's why we didn't have the debate about maximum insurance income. Because if we just raise it by 10%. [[a line from the National Representative Menda Stoyanov]] This has to do with art. 10, calm down, we will find more revenue precisely to increase people's pensions. If it goes up at £2,600. At BGN 2860, that's an additional 47 million. Ladies and gentlemen, tell me who we're protecting. If we want one person to have confidence in the system, why not provide a higher income and therefore receive a higher pension? What's wrong with that? Even if you ask me, I'll go even further away not to have the maximum insurance income. Everyone gets what they get.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u328	Which text is your statement, Mr. Stoinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u329	I'm speaking under art. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u330	What does it say in art. Ten?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u331	Yes, but you have to understand, so listen to me. That's extra revenue. That's millions. Of those millions, Madam President, we can raise the minimum pension. You see, what we're being offered right now is a mockery.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u332	We've already voted on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u333	To have a minimum pension that only increases with the so-called Swiss rule. So we need to think about where this revenue comes from. That's why our insistence on always proposing it is to really increase people, to increase the funds of these people, to give God, to have a lot more rich, wealthy people,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u334	This is a first-reading statement, Mr. Stoinev. Specifically, what do you suggest?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u335	...so they can really get a more adequate pension. With the increase in internship and age, with these minimum pensions, we fully demotivate people to provide themselves. We need to figure this out once and for all. We will not fully support this minimal increase in minimum pension, because we believe that this is a mockery of people. Mrs. Stoyanova, you must tell how this budget will be filled.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u336	Mr. Stoynev!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u337	Give at least one measure that leads to an increase in revenue. We've given at least five measures so far, you haven't taken any. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u338	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Svilensky's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u339	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, a concrete proposal: on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, BSP left Bulgaria and 30 minutes of rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u340	I'm announcing a 15-minute break by 5:40. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u341	Guys, break time's up. I request that the Members of the National Assembly be given orders in plenary. One message: Today, 1 December 2015, has been received and is to be distributed to the MPs A general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act adopted at the first vote on 26 November 2015. The project was drawn up by the Committee on Education and Science on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. The debate continues. To make a statement Mr. Ademov, after him Mr. Bajraktarov. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u342	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, our proposal in art. 10 - Increase of the minimum pension for internship and age from 1 July to 31 December 2016 is 10 leva. monthly. I'd like to give you a few details. The number of pensioners with a monthly amount up to the minimum pension for internship and age is 257 thousand. 835. Of course, there are other pensions that arise from the amount of the minimum pension for internship and age. The additional cost for the six months we offer this amount is about 39 million. Honourable colleagues, you will probably say here arguments of the kind: There is no link between their social contribution and the amount of the minimum wage. You'll be right, but not quite. Why? Because a very large proportion of these pensioners are pensioners who are retired under the old Pension Act. Their contribution to the system was then as much as the amount of their salaries. So we cannot in this category include all 257 thousand pensioners who are of a minimum size. According to the latest information in Bulgaria one and a half million Bulgarian citizens live in conditions of poverty - 22% of all Bulgarian citizens; more 44% are threatened by poverty; the working poor in Bulgaria are 9%, which means that a very large part of these pensioners, not to say all 257 thousand, are below the line of poverty, which is 300 BGN. You will probably say that when the minimum pension for internship and age does not reach for minimum monthly standards, for minimum costs, then these people can be borne by the social support system. Unfortunately, in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for next year there is an increase of 7,5 million, which covers the increase of the Fund Work salary in this area. So social support is not able to take over all that 257 thousand. 835 Bulgarian pensioners. That is why our proposal is towards this increase of BGN 3.94. per month you propose, let's add the modest 10 leva. a month.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u343	Any lines to Mr. Ademov? I won't. Mr. Bayraktarov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u344	Thank you, Madam President. Article 10 is this article, which concerns the lives of millions of Bulgarian citizens, mostly Bulgarian pensioners, who over the years have been constantly harmed by every next government. During the examination of art. 9 we have seen that there is no problem to increase the cost of the budget. Just a few days ago the Council of Ministers officially published the poverty threshold for the Republic of Bulgaria. The poverty threshold in Bulgaria, honourable Members, is officially announced at 300 BGN. More than one million and 500,000 Bulgarian pensioners are officially poor people who cannot pay their bills, people who cannot meet basic living standards, and it is at least hypocritical and cynical to offer an increase in pension, according to the importer, from BGN 3.94. under the Swiss rule, and it is even more cynical, since just a few minutes ago you increased the spending part of the budget, reducing the insurance threshold of tobacco producers from 330 to 300, that is, you kept it as it was, now offering an increase of 10 BGN. For this reason, because the worthy Bulgarian pensioner, most of them with work and insurance internship over 40 years, I am proposing a correction in art. 10, as follows: - What do you mean? 1 the number of..157,44 BGN................................................................................................................................ Three hundred leva is officially the threshold of poverty declared by the government. - What do you mean? 2 of art. 10 the number..161,38.. to be translated to. This is the fair solution for a million and 500,000 Bulgarian pensioners, to whom for years several Parliaments owe them this respect. Otherwise, everything else calmly can be called political hypocrisy. You see what a debate it was, according to Mr. Ademov, 7 8,000 people who, notice, receive subsidies. I wonder how they get them when they're not insured.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u345	Eight thousand are insured.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u346	We'll check that out. And on the other hand, keep quiet when it comes to the fate of our mothers and fathers, thanks to whom this system still exists. I hope, colleagues, both on the left and on the right, that you will support this proposal -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u347	Replices to Mr. Bayraktarov? [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u348	Thank you, Madam President. I propose a procedure to end the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u349	And before that, were there any lines for Mr. Ademov? No. Inverse proposal of Mr. Stanislav Ivanov's procedure. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u350	Thank you, Madam President. I'm making a counter-proposal not to end the debate. I absolutely do not believe that there have been enough speeches on this so important subject. We took away mothers with children's privileges, and now we want to take away pensioners. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] There is talk of an increase in pensions by 2.5 per cent. However, there are specific figures behind this are hidden as 2 BGN, 3 BGN. That's actually the increase. In no way can this compensate for the maintenance of a pensioner for the upcoming 2016. The increase in age and internship for retirement, the failure to raise pensions will discourage a large part of Bulgarian citizens from being provided at all. That's why my procedure is not to end the debate. There's a lot more to say about that. [[(Comments from GERB:]] It is good to hear it from Bulgarian citizens, and it is good to hear it from colleagues in the hall, not like those three monkeys didn't see, didn't hear, didn't understand. This is an important topic, colleagues, and do not play with the fates of over 2 million. Five hundred thousand. Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u351	Voting mode. Vote 108 MPs: 86, against 21, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The debate is over. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Mestan and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 118 MPs: 23, Against 34, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal in art. 10 by importer supported by the Commission, i.e. BGN 1, instead of BGN 157,44, read 300, etc. 2 instead of the number 161,38 BGN, let's write We vote on Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal. They voted 118 MPs: 38, against 44, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 10, supported by the Commission. They voted 125 MPs: 93 against 19, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Negative vote by Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u352	Thank you, Madam President. I voted against it because I believe that the so-called updating of all types of pensions by only 2.5 percent is extremely insufficient, because in this way the growing cost of maintenance can not be compensated in 2016 for a huge part of the Bulgarian pensioners. I voted against it because behind these 2.5% are hidden specific figures, and they are absolutely insufficient because the proposal leads to an increase of the minimum pension by only BGN 3.94, the average pension by BGN 9.62, not to mention the social pension, which is raised by the huge pension of BGN 2.85. There is no way to convince the Bulgarians to convince [[GERB lines]] The Bulgarian pensioners, and this is close to 2 million. 200,000. Bulgarians that these BGN 2.85 Or 3,94 lv. monthly compensates for inflation and will be sufficient to live at least as they lived this year. I voted against it because we took from the mothers, we took from the pensioners. And one more thing: the continuing increase in age and internship for retirement and maintaining the low level of pensions inevitably, dear colleagues, will lead to an increase in distrust in the insurance system, to demotivation and denial of insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u353	Mrs. Stoyanova, report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u354	Under art. 11 there is a proposal of the MP Stefan Kenov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11 the sum of BGN 7,20 is amended to BGN 12. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11 words - BGN 7,20 - to be replaced by BGN 8 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u355	Statements? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Kenov and a group, which is identical to the proposal of Mr. Mikhail Mikov and the group. We are voting on these proposals. They voted 133 MPs: 30, 47, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dimitar Tanev and the group They voted 120 MPs: 52, against 17, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. Revoting, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u356	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I suggest a re-vote. Let me just point out that this is about increasing the amount from 7,20 to 8,00 BGN. This is a minimal, minimal increase within 10% of the current size. I am convinced that we must support it, we must give a clear sign that in the budget, in addition to increasing the salaries of the NSI, we must also increase the money for benefits and the unemployed. So I suggest a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u357	It's a re-vote. 135 MPs voted: 58, against 24, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 11 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 131 MPs: 92 against 19, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u358	Under art. 12 has a proposal from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 12th The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mihov and group: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Stefan Kenov and group: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 sum of 340 leva. replace by 420 BGN. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u359	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u360	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 We offer compensation for raising a small child between 1 and 2 years of age from 340 BGN, as it is now, to increase to 380 BGN. We didn't pick those 40 levs by accident. more. First, the minimum wage increases by 40 BGN. Secondly, in the first 135 days the compensation was 90% of the mother's insurance income. That's £380. is exactly 90%, approximately 90% of the minimum wage. Without binding to the amount of minimum wage the compensation for raising a young child, we offer an increase of 40 BGN. From 340 to 380 BGN For 2016 there are approximately 8900 days for the average daily compensation of BGN 16,19. At 340 leva. are so average daily, and at 380 leva. The average daily compensation becomes BGN 18,09, i.e. with close to BGN 2,00. increase. I suggest you support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u361	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Stoynev to support their...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u362	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think this is one last opportunity now to show an attitude not only towards Bulgarian parents, but especially towards Bulgarian children. I really don't understand why this stubbornness is. Moreover, Minister Kalfin has not presented us with a mechanism to calculate this compensation. Because when I introduced the bill to be equal to the minimum wage, we were told: no, it would not be equal to the minimum wage! Okay, it's not going to be equal. Okay, then how do we increase this compensation? Every time we look at the ceiling, we will wonder how to help Bulgarian mothers! After all, I repeat, it's about insured mothers! They are provided for this joyous event to be able to raise their children. I'm not saying that when we raise it to BGN 420, we solve all their problems. But here it is really important to show an idea, to show a desire to pursue a policy to support young families. We still want to leave it at 340 leva. Why? Given that almost all reports of the World Bank talk about how Bulgaria is the country that disappears the fastest? I also agree with the argument that perhaps this is not how we will deal with the demographic crisis, that there should be perhaps more flexible measures of entry and entry into the labour market. Good. But let's see what we're offered here. We'll probably wait for New Year to pass to show us the measures we're dealing with in the demographic crisis. But at the same time we offer you 420 BGN. Why 320 BGN, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u363	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Six are the same things you're saying right now!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u364	Because it's the minimum wage and it always has been! This is about Bulgarian children. It's not about anything else! If something is worthwhile in this budget to be supported, I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely this to assist these families in raising our child from 1 to 2 years old. We will not solve all their problems, but ultimately let us show them attitude, let us also show concern, but let us do it really all together. There's no point in splitting up. It's about raising a child from 1 to 2 years old. This is not about the Roma or anyone else who has not, for example, been provided. It's about people, it's about mothers, it's about parents who have been providing for themselves! What's the holdup? What's the holdup? I just don't really get it. Thank you. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u365	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u366	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, today is the first day the government has failed in relation to the decisions of the National Assembly since the end of July. You have accepted it, for short-term and medium-term measures to combat the demographic crisis. And every day we will play a clock to see how the Bulgarian government works against the Bulgarian people, we will count the days until such measures are proposed. Tonight you want to tell the Bulgarian citizens with these budget votes: we supported the decision that the government committed, but that was before the elections. And after the election, the invisible results will appear and you will feel them. This year you know that 13 500 children from those who were supposed to be first grade did not go to school in Bulgaria. You also know that there is a clear drop in birth rates compared to last year when you were managing the bad government of Oresharski. [[Noise and lines.]] You know... Yeah, yeah! Now these are the facts and statistics. And the shouters of the gallery, stand up and speak, not just shout here! This is a National Assembly, not a stadium! Now you have the opportunity to support one of the two solutions. We're talking about a negligible amount of money compared to the money you're leaving at the government's disposal. We are talking about negligible small money that you set aside for financing and co-financing on European projects - wonderful sewers to make, wonderful highways to make, wonderful sidewalks and fountains to do. If there's no one to enjoy it, you've done nothing. So, honourable MPs from the ruling group: come to your senses, we will support the adoption of the increase as you see fit, but it is absurd another freeze and another policy that put people on the streets last time and which froze Bulgaria for three years! Are you going to overdo the budget by raising young children? A value added tax you rejected, which covers costs and eases the cost of raising a child. It is obvious that we are already talking about consistent policy, even the cabinet ministers are not present at this discussion. Kalfin doesn't care, the others don't care, the Prime Minister doesn't care. You in the Chamber are currently responsible for giving a sign to these people. They won't be able to solve all their problems, but without an increase in the minimum wage level, the sign will be clear. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u367	- What's the line? A line, Mr. Bojinov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u368	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mikov, in recent weeks you have consistently argued your thesis, justified the need to support... [[Laughter and applause from GERB.]] Wait a minute, don't be in such a hurry to clap, you'll hear at the end, it won't be pleasant! You justify this thesis that you have to help young families, mothers, children to go to school and offer to take from those funds from which commissions for power come...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u369	There you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u370	...there's the funding of specific companies...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u371	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u372	...comes the wealth of those who are already rich enough, and you want their political representatives here to support you. It's just that the TVs don't work...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u373	Why wouldn't they work? Look at all the cameras!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u374	...transmitting is closed, journalists are leaving.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u375	Come on, the line!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u376	And these people are already so poor, they live so badly that they don't want to hear their opponents and their defenders. Therefore, Mr. Mikov, they will not support you despite your arguments. These people will vote for those who receive the commissions, Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u377	Come on, the line!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u378	...for those who give them, for those who are accustomed to enriching themselves...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u379	Why are you replicating Mrs. Stoyanova who hasn't spoken? Talk to Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u380	I'm making a line for Mr. Mikov...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u381	But you turned around and spoke to Mrs. Stoyanova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u382	...must take other action. Thus, this true and necessary policy for the future of Bulgaria does not find referees in this majority and must choose other methods to reach it. I see the other left party is silent, she's not calling.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u383	She's not left.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u384	She's not left, sorry. So, Mr. Mikov, I'm replicating you on this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u385	Colleagues, please don't measure our left right now. Let's get down to business.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u386	Should we measure our arguments, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u387	Second line? I won't. Mr. Mikov, would you like to use the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u388	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u389	Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u390	Thank you, Madam President. I propose an end to the debate, colleagues, because under art. 6 of the budget has already been held the debates for which colleagues are currently debating, so it is pointless to repeat them again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u391	Well done. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u392	Colleagues, there's no request for any other speeches, so the debate... [[BSP LB.]] No one's requested. Tell me the obnoxious offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u393	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, when the parliamentary tribune began to speak the truth, the one you do not want to hear...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u394	Mr. Iankov, you have a reverse proposal procedure, not to comment on the truth. [[The speaker's talking on the mike off.]] There is a procedure to end the debate, tell us what you think specifically under this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u395	Madam President, I don't think it's appropriate to interrupt speaking from the stands in the middle of the sentence until you know what the finale is. Because when spoken by the parliamentary tribune, this truth that you, the government, do not want to hear, comes out your representative and proposes to end the debate. Why don't you see and hear what we have to say?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u396	You have no say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u397	Those who are opposition, and although you do not accept any of our arguments, at least some of you may hear the truth, the one that will set you free. I'm making a counteroffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u398	We vote on Mr. Ivanov's proposal. Vote 113 MPs: 91, against 21, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs the compensation for raising a young child instead of BGN340. They voted 126 MPs: 36, against 18, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs, which is identical with the proposal of Mr. Stefan Genov and a group of MPs -....340 BGN.................................................................................... the Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 127 MPs: 37, against 24, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 12 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 131 MPs: for 101, against 26, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Boychev was first, Mr. Popov was second.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u399	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I think we have now made one of the important votes of the day and committed a disgrace! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I would like to remind you that by drawing up the government, you have announced one of your main priorities for combating the demographic catastrophe in Bulgaria. With this action and with this vote today you are really turning into a disaster for the Bulgarian nation! I want to tell you that we're missing 40,000 right now. Bulgarian mothers from the possibility that the compensation they receive for raising children from 1 to 2 years of age should be updated, and notice, the amount of minimum wage. What example, what incentive to give to those people we want to support the future of the Bulgarian nation?! I want to tell you that this amounts to about 37 million. lv. At the moment you have saved the 37 million and from now on they will weigh on your conscience on the future of Bulgaria you have vowed! Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u400	Mr. Popov, didn't you speak essentially on this text? No. You have the floor for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u401	Thank you, Madam President. I voted against it, because for the second time in a row you "GERB," the Patriotic Front, Reformers, ABB, have frozen, for three and a half years and before that, the benefits for mothers. I voted against it because the expenditure in the budget for child benefit after the first year decreased because of the demographic crisis and the amount of compensation remained BGN 340. [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] I voted against it because it is cynical. It is not your policy, ladies and gentlemen, with these freezings, because in the end you will wipe out the Bulgarian people with them! [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] I voted against it because you condemned 39 thousand Bulgarian mothers to genocide! Congratulations on this budget! Go outside and tell the moms with the kids. I hope they understand. [[The only applause from BSP LB. Noise and lines by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u402	Procedure Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u403	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. I understand that it's quite difficult for colleagues of seven and a half hours to sit and not take attitude, bore them, call out from their seats as if they were in a stadium! Perhaps that is also the way they express their attitude. I ask you very much to put in order, because the way in which the subject is expressed, if any, is not by calling on the ground, but by coming to the stand and saying, if you have anything to say! The other is vulgarity, with an apology. If you want to look like that in people's eyes, do it! And second thing, I understand that some people hate to hear things, but it's nice to listen. To listen, there must be silence! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u404	Colleagues, I am taking an argument from Mr. Ermenkov's procedure. I ask you to order and listen to what is spoken from the stand. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u405	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for Articles 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u406	There are no speeches. We vote Articles 13 and 14. They voted 135 MPs: 110, against 6, abstention 19. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u407	Under art. 15 has a proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15 para. 1 is amended as follows: For 2016 the amount of the contribution for the on-and-off guarantee claims of the employees is fixed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u408	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 125 MPs: 18, against 64, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 15 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 124 MPs: 104 against 13, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u409	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16, the name of the division "Transitional and final provisions" and § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u410	No statements on the reported texts. Anblok, I'm putting it to the vote. 16, the name of the division "Transitional and final provisions' and § 1 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 132 MPs: 110, against 8, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u411	Proposal by the MP Stefan Kenov and a group of MPs for a new paragraph: A new § 1a is being created: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the The maximum amount of one or more pensions received is set at BGN 910 (BGN 910). The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which is identical with the above. The Commission does not support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u412	There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposals of the MP Stefan Kenov and a group of MPs and MP Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs who are identical. The Commission does not support them. They voted 127 MPs: 25, against 52, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u413	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u414	We vote § 2. They voted 131 MPs: 109, against 4, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u415	Proposal by the National Representative Velizar Enchev under § 3: In § 3: 1. A t is created. 16a: 16a. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 84a.Subcutaneous or intravenous Art. 84a. (1) The non-civilly married missionaries shall receive an additional monthly supplement to their pension in the following amounts for each year: 1. for paid bachelor tax up to 15 years receive a monthly supplement of 0.6 percent of their pension for each year; 2. for paid bachelor tax over 15 years receive a monthly supplement of 1.1 per cent of their pension for each year. (2) The provision of para. 1 applies to single pensioners who have not been married and who are 65 years old. (3) The supplement under para. 1 is at the expense of the state budget and is paid through the National Insurance Institute in order to pay the pensions. 2. A t is created. 21: ..21. In § 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions para. 3 to be absorbed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs: In § 3: a) to create t. 19a: 19a. Article 117a shall make the following amendments: 1. A new para is being created. 2: The application shall be suspended where the complaint is lodged by an official of the medical expertise of which an act of review has been drawn up because of a breach of the rules for determining the degree of permanently reduced performance. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it, the execution of the orders shall be added before the words....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 become respectively. 4 and 5. b) to create t. 21: ..21. Paragraph 21u shall be inserted in the Transitional and Final Provisions: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. (1) By 31 March 2016, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall submit amendments to the regulations of invalidity pensions for public consultation. (2) By 30 April 2016, the Council of Ministers shall submit to the National Assembly the relevant bills relating to amendments and additions to the disability pensions and other rights of disabled persons, aimed at optimising the use of available financial resources to improve the living conditions of disabled persons. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal referred to in point (b) and does not support it in the remainder. Proposal by the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions are made in § 3: (a) A new item shall be created. 1: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 1. in Art. 1. 4a, para. 3, p. 4 the words of the hundredth and hundredth shall be replaced by the words of the hundredth and the words shall be replaced by the words (b) t. 1 is t. 2 and is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. in para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: (a) c. 4 (a.k.a. "), the words "s.a.' are replaced by "s.a. (b) c. 6 the words "one hundred" shall be replaced by "two hundred." 2. In para. The third sentence of Article 9 shall be replaced by the words "the decision of the authority of revenue under the terms and conditions of that authority' and the word "the decision' shall be deleted. c) (i.e. 2 "9" becomes respectively i.e. 3.. 10. (d) a new item shall be created. 11: I'm sorry, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. 1 the number e) t.10 "20" shall become t.r.s., respectively. 12 "Secretary of Jehovah's Witnesses " 22. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Stefan Kenov and a group of MPs: In § 3: 1. A new t. is created. 1: "1." in art. 4a, para. 3, p. 4 words of the hundredth is amended to the two hundredths of the hundredth of the hundredth of the hundredth of the hundredth of the hundredth of the hundredth of the hundredth of 2. The current t. 1 is t. 2 and is amended as follows: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1, t. 6 words of one hundred and one hundred and one hundred are amended to two hundred and one hundred and one hundred. (b) in para. The third sentence of the third sentence of the words.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (c) para. Ten down. 3. Previously on "T." 2 " 20" becomes p.m., respectively. 3.. 21............................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. The third sentence of the third sentence is replaced by the wording of the revenue authority in accordance with the terms and conditions of the statement of expenditure and the words "the corresponding' shall be deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 1, t. 4 the words the due insurance contributions from self-insuring persons and from the persons referred to in art. 4a, para. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. 6, para. 9 and the contributions due by the persons referred to in art. 4a, para. 1.................................................................................. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13c, para. 3 words are not covered. The words are deleted. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 2, p. 1 after the words the funds are commaed and the funds are added for the persons under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, t. 3 the 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22b is created t. 3: "3." aid for prevention and rehabilitation. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in the title after the word........................................................................................................ b) in the text before t. 1 after the word (c) c. 1 and 2 the words "15th number' shall be replaced by "10th number'. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) in the first sentence, the words "the 18 calendar months' shall be replaced by "the 24 calendar months'; (b) in the second sentence, the words 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48b in the title after the word "supplied" the words "supplied" shall be replaced by the word "supplied" and the words "supplied" shall be replaced by "supplied." 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52b in the title after the word "supplied" the words "supplied" shall be replaced by the word "supplied" and the words "supplied" shall be replaced by "supplied." 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54a, para. 1 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." they have not obtained the right to a retirement pension in the Republic of Bulgaria or a retirement pension in another country or are not granted a retirement pension and a reduced amount of age under art. Art. 68a or professional pension under Art. 68a. 168. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54d, para. 4 after the words "supplier', the output or "supplier' shall be added. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54d, para. 1 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." acquisition of a pension for insurance service and age in the Republic of Bulgaria or a pension for old age in another country, or when granting a pension for insurance service and age of reduced amount under art. Art. 68a or professional pension under Art. 68a. 168. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 3 words or an early retirement pension in the Republic of Bulgaria, or an old age pension in another country, shall be replaced by a retirement pension in the Republic of Bulgaria, or a retirement pension in another country, a retirement pension and a reduced age under art. Art. 68a or professional pension under Art. 68a. 168 (a.k.a. (b) in para. 4 after the word "Institut', a person appointed by the head of the branch shall be added. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77 words. 3-6s shall be replaced by "al'. 3.. 8............... 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 words "al." 3-6s shall be replaced by "al'. 3-8. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 101, para. 1, t. 4a after the words "other type of pension', a comma shall be added and a pension granted in another country shall be added. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. A sentence 3 shall be inserted after the first sentence after the word "institution" (s) or another official designated by the head of the division (s). 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117, para. 2 the word "three months' is replaced by "monthly'. 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 129, para. 19 words. 13, 14 and 16 13, 14 and 17. 21. In § 1, para. 1 of the Additional Provisions: (a) c. 4 after the words..Fund..Pensions....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 69 (a.k.a. (b) c. 7 in the text before b. The words.................................................................... The following points are inserted after point 5 (Commission Implementing Regulation (c) c. 11 after the words. 69 a.m. is a comma and a.m. is added. Art. 69b. 69c. 22. Paragraph 22y shall be inserted in the Transitional and Final Provisions: "Sixteeny-twoy-twoy." (1) By 30 April 2016, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall submit amendments to the regulations of invalidity pensions for public consultation. (2) By 30 June 2016, the Council of Ministers shall submit to the National Assembly the relevant bills relating to amendments and additions to the disability pensions and other rights of disabled persons, aimed at optimising the use of available financial resources to improve the living conditions of disabled persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u416	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. The debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u417	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, it is clear that the changes to the Social Security Code do not interest you particularly, but in this late day you will accept things...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u418	How can it be too late?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u419	Well, at this early stage, you will accept things that you need to be aware of and remain in the transcripts that you have accepted them because we will not support them. The first thing I propose, Madam President, is in point. 1 "Species" shall not be deleted because the sentence is losing meaning. If you open the text in art. Six...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u420	You're making this offer now?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u421	I'm not. You did it in the Commission report. I support our proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u422	You're going into dialogue again!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u423	What do you want me to do? You know it's an unsolvable matter. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 9, after the year in question, the Public Security Budget Act for the year in question will take place and it is not clear to which year it relates. However, there is one bigger issue that relates to the claim of the What's really going on? In para. 9, in which I counted four sentences, without being specified in the text that you will accept, you are making an amendment to one of them, in my opinion, that is the third sentence, in the case of a vague census, I may be wrong. It is about the annual social security income, defined as a difference between declared or determined by an entry into force revision of the Tax-Securities Procedure Code, which benefits from the pursuit of the work concerned and the sum of the income. There are mechanisms for blackmailing self-preservations here, because from a valid audit act, the required insurance contributions from self-insuring persons shall be made by the revenue authority. The most normal thing is for this to happen with an entry into force audit act. There are also some lawyers left in this room at this early hour, and it's nice to think about what's going on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u424	It's decided in the D.O.D.K.!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u425	Then, passing through the judicial procedure, the authorities of the Income Administration will be condemned when it is found that there is a discrepancy between the established and the effective revision act. That's normal thinking. I suggest you drop that in t. 1, Mrs President, in § 3, the second part due to the scintillating formation of the sentence, if the corresponding and the first part...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u426	Mr. Mikov, this is your proposal and I do not know why it is written in the report that is not supported. Look at your proposal: Offer of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u427	Where is that?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u428	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions shall be made:... Paragraph 2 for para. 9: the word "supposed' is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u429	You see he's not supported, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u430	It's not supported, but that's what you suggested. It's the wrong record that he wasn't backed up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u431	It's not supported by ours, so it's different.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u432	You've proposed to get the relevant one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u433	I can see that, but do you think he's backed up or not? If he's backed up,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u434	In practice, it is also supported in the text of the importer dropping out, and you are now saying that you want the relevant one to fall out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u435	Because I see that ours is not supported,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u436	You're withdrawing your offer, am I to understand?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u437	...and before that, I said they support all of our proposals. I'm not retiring it, how I'm going to withdraw it. Let the Commission assess the text it has proposed to the National Assembly whether to accept it in this form. Our proposal, stated explicitly in the report that it has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u438	I'm watching the editing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u439	It's also an importer. 1 of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u440	Here, Mrs. Stoyanova says it's the same by importer. I'm the one who suggested what we should do. You, Madam President, decide whether or not we have been accepted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u441	To speak, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u442	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to say a few words on page 21. At 6:45 p.m., these texts come a little too much, and I'm sorry I have to say it this way. See what this is about, Madam President. In this § 22w, I understand the idea of colleagues from the Reformation Block, and I welcome these efforts in some way to change the legislation regarding disability pensions. But look at the text: By 30 April 2016, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall submit for public consultation amendments to the regulations of disability pensions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u443	That can't be legal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u444	This is their obligation under the Law on Legislative Acts. How are we gonna write that down in the Social Security Code? Think again, Madam President. Dear fellow importers, I repeat, I respect your efforts in some way to get the ministers to do their job, but this can be done under parliamentary control. Why should we write such texts in the Law? And the second proposal. See what this is about: The Council of Ministers shall submit the relevant drafts to the National Assembly by 30 June. Which relevant bills were colleagues? We oblige the Council of Ministers to submit relevant bills. These texts will enter the legal reviews of colleagues from the Law Faculty of Sofia University as pearls! Let's not let that happen, let's respect ourselves. Tell me, Mr. Chairman of the Legal Commission, could there be such texts? Once again, with all due respect to the importers of this text, we cannot in this way write texts and accept them accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u445	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u446	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 45, para. 2 and 3 I am making a procedural proposal to extend the time of this plenary until 22.00.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u447	What day?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u448	Today.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u449	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev. [[Heckling]] Mr. Chavdar Georgiev was first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u450	Madam President, honourable Members! I am inverse in reminding you that we can only extend regular meetings.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u451	Where does it say that, Mr. Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u452	Here, I'll read to you: the regular plenary sessions and so on. The National Assembly may change the time for regular meetings.............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u453	Where does it say that?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u454	Article 45, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u455	You read specifically, I don't read after.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u456	I'll read it to you again, Madam President. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45, para. 2 writes: The National Assembly may change the time for regular meetings. [[GERB lines.]] You can't, mate. On the contrary, we must consider. Secondly, there is one common sense, colleague. In order to pass normal laws and not to accept the bullshit that is being offered, Mr. Ademov explained this thing to you, let's have normal working hours and be able to think clearly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u457	We've taken that from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u458	I suggest you do not accept this proposal. There are still working days. The National Assembly will not go on vacation tomorrow. We will be able to do our job properly. That's why I'm making a reverse procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u459	Before I put the proposal to the vote, art. 45, para. 1 refers to the regular plenary sessions which are normally held on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday from 9.00 to 14.00. By decision of the National Assembly, the meetings can be extended. The National Assembly may change the time for regular meetings. And here comes the systematic interpretation of para. 3 which indicates that the National Assembly may decide to hold extraordinary meetings on a pre-declared agenda during a session but outside the days under para. 1. Extraordinary meetings may be held at any time in the event of exceptional circumstances. We're not limited by time. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Colleagues, para. 2 refers to the time of the plenary sittings outside the days they are. It says it can change the weather. We are voting on the procedural proposal. They voted 121 MPs: for 89, against 27, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. To speak, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u460	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I make a substantive argument under Paragraph 22u, I would like to make an editorial proposal on the text supported by the Commission. This editorial proposal is the result of coordination with both the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and representatives of the NSI. I'll read it now. It's in al. 1: After the word, the concept of improvement of the medical expertise and the expertise of the workforce shall be made available. [[Applause to the President.]] I'll leave it to you later........................................... In para. 2 after the word "damages" shall be added to the words "which derive from the concept under para. 1, including measures for the "supplier'. Now get to the point. The text we are proposing is not really a text that you now see, Mr. Ademov, because we proposed similar texts to enter the Social Security Code last year, and they have one single objective. The aim is to set clear deadlines, to combine the efforts of both ministries and of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and of the Ministry of Health, to work in one direction, to stop the draining of the pension system through false disability pensions. I've dealt with this subject several times, I've set an example that in 10 years we have six times the increase in money, that is, there is a problem. If you claim that there is no problem and things must remain that way, I say the other, and therefore we propose these texts, which make a clear commitment to the ministers, to speed up the work. I am far from thinking that they are not working in this direction, we are just trying to speed up the work so that, within the time limits that are set in April 30th and June 30th respectively, they have a ready concept and legislative changes. Once again, the two ministers together to propose these amendments so that there is really a reform of the pension system in the direction of reducing the false disability pensions, which we have been talking about for more than a year now, which, unfortunately, despite parliamentary questions and demands on our part [[the President signals that time has run out]] both in committees and in the parliamentary tribune, so far, they are not a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u461	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u462	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A budget shall set a 24-month period for the calculation of monetary benefits during pregnancy and childbirth.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u463	They keep quoting me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u464	That's right, Mrs. Stoyanova, this is really one of the most important things. This for a young family, for a young mother, means not to return two years to what amount it was provided, but to remain as it was 18 months ago. When GERB's first term brought him back to 24 months, no one came out and said why he did it. Maybe now Mrs. Angelova will come out and explain why you're bringing him back to 24 months. Perhaps the only thing is to reduce this compensation to young families. I don't see the point. There's no need. Let's keep it 18 months. What are we going to change, and how much will a mother be a burden on the state budget, all the more so that she has provided herself for this beautiful moment? Let's keep it the way it was 18 months ago. Because the more you provide it... The possibility of her working on a lower salary is much greater. There's nothing wrong with staying 18 months. You did not agree for working mothers from one to two years to raise the compensation, as always, to be equal to the minimum wage. Now you're putting a new limit on them here so they can get less revenue. After all, I say again, we're out of here. Let's see what these policies are that lead to birth incentives! It's true, it's not just the money, but in the end, this young woman is providing for this thing. And when that risk occurred, a risk in quotes, of course, that happiness, which is why it was provided. Let's stay 18 months. Even if you ask me, we should turn it down in the future. To really receive a higher reward because it replaces the income on which it was provided. Tell me, what is the logic of 24 months? [[Thuds and noise.]] Ivaylo Kalfin is gone again. He won't answer that question. Ivaylo Kalfin is in Brussels. He doesn't care about these things.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u465	Is there anything else you'd like to say, Mr. Stoinev, or are you gonna spin that every time you go out?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u466	It's a part of me... Of course, at the end of the day, Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u467	Five minutes, that's what we're listening to.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u468	...that's what social policy stands for. These suggestions of his must be justified. [[Noise and lines.]] From GERB no one comes out or justifies them. That's why I'm asking: is there anyone from the ABB? Because I don't understand it. I admit it. Why does it have to be 24 months, people? Why does it have to be? Why are we preventing a young family from receiving higher compensation? Let's keep it 18 months! It's still a severe punishment, but let's not raise it to 24 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u469	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u470	Madam President, you have seen that colleagues on the left are speaking again, speaking the same thing, which is why I propose a procedure to end the debate and vote on the texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u471	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. 110 MPs voted: 86, against 21, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. First we vote on Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 27, against 68, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs, in the part in which it is not supported, and that is under the letter............................................................................... Vote 112 MPs: 17 against 14, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. On the proposal of Mr. Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs it is written that the Commission does not support him, but in this regard. 2 for para. 9 of art. 6, the Commission's version, only that there is a t. 1...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u472	And the importer's is the same text. Mr. Mikov suggested something the importer suggested.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u473	Why do you write that the proposal is not supported?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u474	Because we have a mistake. [[Laughter and excitement. Speeches and shouts: "Bravo!" by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u475	I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs in the part where the proposals are different from those of the importers, because in this part they are not supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 25, against 63, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Kenov and a group of MPs, which is also partly an importer and supported in the text of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u476	Because the same people made the proposals, and they copied them, so that's how it happened. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u477	We're pulling him out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u478	You're withdrawing the offer. We're going to the Commission. In his statement Mr. Mikov proposed in point. 1 for change in art. 6, para. 9 to drop the word...................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u479	But he's confused again because... [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u480	I'm obliged to put to the vote what he proposed and it's in the transcript. We are voting on Mr. Mikov's proposal. They voted 113 MPs: 21, against 67, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Tanev's editorial proposals in point. 22 for the creation of the new § 22u, as he set them out in his speech. They voted 113 MPs: for 83, against 7, abstention 23. The proposals have been accepted. We are now voting all of § 3 on the Commission report, together with the amendment adopted just now. They voted 111 MPs: for 91, against 20, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u481	§ 4 "A proposal of the National Representative Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs for the creation of new paragraphs 4 and 5. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 4 and 5: ............................................ The Labour Code (promote, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 222 is In the case of termination of employment, the worker or employee shall also be eligible for a retirement pension for an internship and a reduced age under art. 68a of the Social Security Code. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 328 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 1: (aa) a new t is created. 10a: 10a. where the employee is granted a pension for insurance service and age reduced under art. 68a of the Social Security Code; (bb) The previous item. 10a becomes t. 10b; (c) The creation of a t. 10c: ..10c. where the employment relationship has arisen with a worker or employee after he has been granted a retirement pension and a reduced age under art. 68a of the Social Security Code. (b) in para. 3 after the words "al." 1, t. 10a is a comma and a comma is added to 10b and 10c is added. § 5. In the Law on the Civil Service (prom., SG...) in art. 106 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the following additions are made: (a) To be created t. 5a: 5a. where the civil servant is granted a retirement pension and a reduced age under art. 68a of the Social Security Code; (b) c. 6 is finally a comma and is added to include when he has exercised his right to a retirement pension and a reduced age under art. 68a of the Social Security Code. 2. The creation of para. 3a: In the event of termination of the service, the civil servant shall also be eligible for a retirement pension for an internship and a reduced age under art. 68a of the Social Security Code. 3. In para. 5 words. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: 1, t. 5a By § 4, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u482	Statements on the two new paragraphs and § 4 by importer, which becomes § 6? I won't. We are voting on paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of the Commission report. Vote 116 MPs: 98 against 13, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u483	Under § 5, there is a proposal of Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs supported by the Commission. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of Members of Parliament, not supported by the Commission, namely: in § 5 the words................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 15 and 16' are replaced The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 7: .................................................... The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2016, with the exception of § 3, item 3. 15, 16 and 20, which shall enter into force from 15 August 2015. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u484	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 111 MPs: 17 against 70, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 7 in the version of the Commission. Vote 116 MPs: 100 against 13, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u485	Madam President, now the annexes to the report. As per Annex No 1, there is a proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs, which is supported, namely: the Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Annex 1 be amended as follows: 9, para. 1, t. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex Nos 2, 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u486	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission proposal, which generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes that the name of Annex 1 be: "Annex 1 to art. 9, para. 1, t. 1.................................................................................. Please vote on the Commission proposal. Vote 117 MPs: 103, against 5, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u487	Report Anblok supported by the Commission Annexes Nos 2, 3 and 4 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u488	Statements on the reported proposals? I won't. We are voting for enblock applications with numbers 2, 3 and 4 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 98 against 8, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted. There is doubt that, on proposal 1, we have voted only on the name without the content of Annex 1. I shall put to the vote the content of Annex 1 importer supported by the Commission for legal purity. They voted 114 MPs: 93 against 17, abstention 4. The proposal has been adopted and, with this, on a second vote, the Law on the Budget of State Social Security for 2016. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] Moving on to point three: THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2016 Report on the second reading of the Committee on Budget and Finance. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u489	Report on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. The second voting project. The State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria In accordance with The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u490	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 99, Against 6, abstention 9. The name of the Law according to the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u491	Proposal of Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs: "1." The following amendments shall be made in Article 1, paragraph 1: (a) of row I, the number ..20 630 591,5 and 20..20 630 591,5; b) of row I.1 the number "18 072 446, 7 "; (c) of row I.1.4, the number ..8 411 600.. (d) in column 2, in row I.1.5, the number 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in column 2, in row III, the number (b) in column 2, in row III. 1 the number sssxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx (c) in column 2, in row III.1.7, the number (d) in column 2, in row III.1.7.1, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs: "3." The following amendments shall be made in Article 1, paragraph 1: (a) In column 2, in row I, the number (b) In column 2, in row I.1, the number (c) In column 2, in row I.1.3, the number (d) In column 2, in row I.1.4, the number (e) In column 2, in row I.1.5, the number 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 the following amendments shall be made: (a) In column 2, in row III, the number (b) In column 2, in row III. 1 the number ssxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx (c) In column 2, in row III.1.8, the number (d) In column 2, in row III.1.8.1, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and Irena Sokolova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Vasil Antonov and Atanas Zafirov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, row 5 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. 1 in line 1.5. "Acts" is replaced by "4 670 000," "0" is replaced by "4 692 000," "0" is replaced by "4 692 000." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. Section III, p. 1.1 for the municipalities, the number "supplied 2 662 137,0" is replaced by the number "supplied 2 694, 637,0" is replaced by the number "supplied" for the municipalities. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the ............................................... 5.1. the number "seventy 000,0" is replaced by "sixty 00,0" is replaced by "sixteen 00,0" is replaced by - Section III, t. 1.1 for the municipalities the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 and 3 and does not support the proposal under point 3. 1, namely: In Article 1, paragraph 1 "1." in para 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, t. 1.7. is amended as follows: Customs duties and customs duties 150 370,0 Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Diana Yordanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the Member of the National Assembly Lutvi Mestan and a group of Members of the National Assembly: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 2, Section II Costs shall be made as follows: - in row 2, the number - in row 2.1, the number - in row 5, the number "Acquiring fixed assets and major repairs', which is reduced by the corresponding amount) - row 5.1. to be renamed to the central budget and to replace the number "seventy 000,0" to be replaced by the number "sixty 000,0" - a new row 5.1.1 is created with the name - a new line 5.1.2 is created. "Integrating, Integration and Beneficial Living Environment" with a sum of "190 000,0 " 2. The creation of para. 5. The resources of the reserve under para. Section II, p. 5.1.2 shall be spent on the basis of an act of the Council of Ministers as follows: 1. For the investment program "Establishment of kindergartens in the districts with a predominantly Roma population" up to 50 000 thousand. lv. 2. For the investment programme, the revival of the underdeveloped regions up to 110 000 thousand. lv. 3. For the programme "Prevention of floods by cleaning river beds" up to 30 000 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Member of the National Assembly Lutvi Mestan and a group of Members of the National Assembly: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. The following amendments shall be made: The following changes shall be made to Section II: - in Section II, the number..10 946 - in row 2. the number - in row 2.1, the number - Section III Budgetary relationships /transfers/ - in Section III, the number..10 455 193,2. to be replaced by.10 467 - in row 1, the number "save 10 526 027.2" is replaced by "swipe 10 538 027.2" - in row 1.8., the number - in row 1.8.1., the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Milen Mihov and Emil Dimitrov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: the number of row I shall be replaced by the number 20 623 591,5 and shall be replaced by the number 20 624 291,5 and shall be replaced by the number 20 624 291,5 and shall be replaced by the (b) in row 1.1, the number (c) in row 1.1.5, the number 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in row II, the number..10 946 (b) in row II (2), the number (c) of row II 1.8, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." in para 1, paragraph 1 is .) of row I. "Accounts, aids and donations" (the number "20 623 591,5") is replaced by "20 893 591,5." (b) of row 1.3. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (c) of row 1.4. The value added tax is replaced by the number 8 409 600,0 and is replaced by the number 8 509 600,0. (d) of row 1.5. "Acts' is replaced by "4 890 000,0'. 2. in para. 2: In Section II, the cost of: - in row 2. "Capital costs' is replaced by "632 575,0 "; - in row 2.1. "Acquirement of fixed assets and major repairs' is replaced by "Accessive of fixed assets and major repairs'; - in row five. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. - row 5.1. is amended as follows: ..5.1. On the central budget of 1,570 000,0. - rows 5.1.1 and 5.1.2 are created: ..5.1.1. For the prevention, management and resolution of the effects of disasters 70 000,0. ..5.1.2. For economic growth and statehood 1,500 000,0 (b) in Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) ': - in row 1.1. The number of the districts of Plovdiv is replaced by 2 856 607,7 and 6662 137,0 and is replaced by 2 856 607,7. - in row 1.2. The number of the public contribution is 5 065 887.1 and is replaced by 4 826 387,1. - in row 1.7. The number of the State Higher Schools is replaced by 407 415.3 and is replaced by 457 415.3 and is replaced by 457 415.3. - in line 1.7.1. The number of the Ministry of Education and Science..383 331,3.. is replaced by.433,33 - in row 1.8. The number of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences (Bulgarian Academy of Sciences) is replaced by the number of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences (Bulgarian Academy of Sciences), which is replaced by the number of the Bulgarian - in line 1.8.1. The number of the Bulgarian Ministry of Education and Science is replaced by the number of the Bulgarian Ministry of Education and Science. The number of the Ministry of Education and Science is replaced by the number of the Ministry of Education and Science. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal of the MP Nayden Zelenogorski and the group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1.In para 1: (a) In the order of Section I (b) In Section I, item 1 (c) In Section I, t. 1.4. The value added tax is to be replaced by 8 448 573 and 8 409 600 is to be replaced by 8 448 573. 2. In para. 2: (a) In the order of Section II, the number (b) In Section II, t. 1 "Current costs', the number....8 322 042.6..to be replaced by the number..8 329 942. (c) In the order of Section III (d) In Section III, p. 1 supplied transfers for: supplied, the number of supplied 10 526 027.2supposed to be replaced by supplied 10 557 100.2s. (e) In Section III, p. 1.1. ===Sources=====Sources===========Sources=======Sources============Sources=============Sources===============Sources========Sources=========Sources=========Sources==============Sources====================Source===========Signs====================Signs======================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================= The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Petar Chobanov and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in Article 1: 1.1. The following changes shall be made in para 2, Section II: - in Section II. the number s. 10 946 208,6 s. is replaced by the number s. 10 916, 208, 6 s. - in row 2, the number - in row 2.1., the number 1.2 In para 2, Section III "Budget relationships (transfers)'the following changes are made: - in Section III, the number..10 455 193,2....10 485 193,2................................................................................................. - in row 1, the number "save 10 526 027.2" shall be replaced by the number "save 10 556 027.2"; - in row 1.1., the number - an additional capital programme is set up for municipalities worth 30 million. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1 Art. 1. (1) Accepts the state budget for 2016 for revenue, aid and donations as follows: The Table. It shall adopt the State budget for 2016 on expenditure, budgetary relations and contribution to the general budget of the European Union as follows: The Table. The budget of the State budget for 2016 shall be consolidated as follows: The Table. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation, in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u492	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Chobanov. Then Mr. Velikov, Mr. Gechev, Mr. Zafirov, Mrs. Yankova, Mr.... I hope you remember your turn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u493	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, Dear Mr. Goranov! Our proposals do not change the overall balance between revenue and expenditure, but we allow ourselves in a large part of them to offer, we can also call it an alternative scenario of how to distribute part of the funds for which it is not written out anyway clearly and categorically in what directions it will be spent, mainly affecting capital expenditure. Another part of our proposals offer some additional transfers, on the one hand, with an additional capital programme for municipalities, on the other hand, for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. To our main group of proposals, we propose three programmes that can be combined under the common name.................................................................................................. In my speech at first reading of the budget, I have allowed myself to make the announcement that we will make such proposals that are aimed at higher economic growth and better people's lives and with these proposals that we are making, we have tried to make this happen. In general, one of our proposals concerns the possibility of building kindergartens in districts with predominantly Roma population. This is a priority of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which we have been talking about for a long time, and it is related to the fact that there can be no real integration without education and education should start in this earliest form, namely kindergartens and preschool education, which will raise interest in children and tackle one of the main problems, namely early school dropout. The other program we are proposing is the Investment Program "Renaissance of poorly developed regions." You know that the government itself initiated a similar program with a little long name for the Northwest, Rhodopes, Strandzha, semi-mountain, mountain and poorly developed areas. Unfortunately, so far, it has no content, no funds have been allocated to it, and this is therefore a similar programme with which we allow ourselves to raise the debate on this issue. The other program we offer here is a flood prevention by cleaning river beds. In general, you will see in ministries that a number of our proposals are aimed at precisely this prevention to deal with the situation before it gets worse. You know, there was a global climate change meeting. These proposals are a little wider, namely, they affect the adverse changes that occur in the environment in different directions that you will see and thus allow us to prevent a larger adverse event by pre-aligning funds to do so. As I said, and in the Commission Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, pointed out, according to him, how the funds for capital expenditure will be distributed, but overall this remains one statement, and here, with our proposals, we clearly, in black and white, record for what these funds can be used for. It is natural to expect that the majority of these proposals will not be accepted, as has happened in the Commission, but this does not prevent us from raising the debate on them, to focus attention on these narrow points of policy, narrow and because they do not receive the necessary funding and then to monitor whether they are paid attention during the year and what the consequences are if they are not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u494	Thank you, dear Mr. Chobanov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Veliv, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u495	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, honourable Members! During my first reading, I spoke mainly on matters relating to education and science and I shared that while pre-school training and school education have an increase in state subsidy, which is naturally correct, it is for higher education and especially science there is more to be desired. It is between first and second readings that what we have proposed with colleagues that is related to this vision. Our first proposal with colleagues Dimitar Tanev, Yordan Kanev, Boyka Marinska and Nikola Hadzhiyski is related to an increase in the state subsidy, as will be seen later, of course, in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4 for transfers from the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science to higher schools and finally in Annex 3 to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN to be related to the quest support of Sofia University "St. Kliment Ohridski" and the Plovdiv University "Paisii Hilendarski". A brief justification for Sofia University "Kliment Ohridski." We know that at the moment the state subsidy does not cover half the expenses of this oldest university, perhaps the most prestigious university in Bulgaria, does not cover the state subsidy even for the salaries of teachers and employees. For the university library of the state subsidy no lev is due. The capital expenditure subsidy has been reduced lately. The Sofia University of St. Kliment Ohridski. 18 buildings, which are declared real monuments of culture, some of which are national monuments of culture. This is much more than all other higher schools put together, which is natural, of course, our Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski was built a long time ago and the condition of all these buildings requires care, including other laws. Regarding Plovdiv University. I'll add that there's a problem with the Chemical Faculty building. If this issue is not resolved by our proposal or by any other means, but very soon, it is in danger what has been accumulated over the last 50 years not only as a reputation, not only as many trained students and given diplomas for higher education, but also there is a scientific infrastructure that is worth over 4 million. lv. I'm guessing. I, as a chemist, can tell you for example about an apparatus that works very well there. It's an optical emission spectrometer with inductively connected plasma. It sounds a little complicated, but it's an elemental analysis apparatus that, naturally, requires more special conditions..links with electricity, water, gas argon and so on, something that has been done over the years and the relocation of this and many other such devices would be linked to huge losses which would then probably cost a lot more than the 3 million for which we here plead with colleagues. Our second proposal is together with colleagues Mariana Todorova, Milen Mihov, Kancho Filipov and Stanislav Stanilov. It is related to an increase of the state subsidy to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2016. We know that the state subsidy has not been increased there for two years. In practice, although for example it has increased, say, the minimum wage and now will increase from January 2016 the minimum wage of 420 BGN, the main starting salary for young scientists is 440 BGN. Therefore, a hygienist, a cleaning lady, with all due respect for her work, at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences will receive about as much as a young scientist, something that does not seem very normal. This does not motivate very young scientists and thus, if this proposal is still accepted, or even if someone offers to change the numbers a little, but it will probably become difficult, so we plead for 12 million, but it would allow according to this money to equalise the pay of a young scientist at least with that of an early teacher. I think it's normal to want it. We know we've increased the teachers' salaries. This is correct, but it is also nice for young scientists to become assistants with salaries of 600 BGN, associate professor of 700 BGN, professor of the university. All of this will highlight what we have and in the Law on the Promotion of Research that science in Bulgaria, as well as education, are a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u496	Thank you, dear Assoc. Gorgeous. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people representative Rumen Gechev. You have the floor, Professor. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u497	Dear Mr. Glauchev, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, ministers, colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the following in the short time I have. Firstly, honourable Members, we are proposing changes in terms of revenue, aid and donations in the amount of an increase of 270 million. lv. Our arguments are linked, firstly, with the extreme need to increase these revenues, because we think that perhaps traditionally the finance ministers prefer to have lower indicators so that they can re-implement their programme on budget revenues, but we believe that this is not in the interest of the Bulgarian economy and does not correspond to European practices. Honourable Members, we do not agree to increase the budget revenue so little nominally against gross domestic product, because, as I have already pointed out, it is virtually not acceptable for Bulgaria to conduct a budget and fiscal policy that is in the opposite direction of European policy. Dear colleagues! Dear colleague Goranov, you must have long considered that, in practice, compared to other European countries, we do not collect as budget revenues from the gross domestic product created between 6 billion and 12 billion. BGN, compared to the practices of the European Union. That we state that the share of budget revenues will be only 37-38% of gross domestic product, and the difference with France will be 20%, and then the amount of uncollected funds that the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian state can use will exceed 12-13 billion. lv. Of course, it is not realistic for us to expect this trend to be changed in one or two years, but we insist that a step be taken towards Europe in the direction of a greater increase in budget revenues, a gradual increase in budget revenues in gross domestic product and that 270 million. BGN are as follows: 50 million lv. additionally from natural persons' income, 100 million lv. of added value, 120 million, 270 in total, the last of the excise duties. The second accent I want to make is extremely important. It's for capital expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no way out of around 500 million capital expenditures in recent years there are numbers that are chasing almost 3 billion. lv. This cannot be seen as a hidden government buffer. I understand that every minister of finance and every government wants to have such a buffer to use in case of necessity or unforeseen reduction in budget revenues, but this huge reserve is not acceptable to be in these capital expenditures. Dear colleagues, we propose that it be clear where this money goes and let this money go for economic growth and statehood.This is 5.1.2., which will be directed to the Bulgarian municipalities, to the Bulgarian regions, especially the backward regions. Because, honourable Members, this year and 2016 The next one, we'll get nearly 600 million. lv. Less than the European Union on programmes, we have over 400 million. BGN, which will not be covered by the European Union on payments, that is, we are behind the Bulgarian government, whatever it is, with a billion. In this state of municipalities, the direction of a billion and a half to the Bulgarian regions, which we propose, will undoubtedly play an extremely positive role. We propose the reduction of budget expenditure in terms of state social security to row 1.2., by nearly 240 million. lv. And that's a market approach. We want to reduce the commitment of the budget to state social security at the expense of higher contributions, and the higher contributions than those who receive higher incomes, not as proposed by the government to increase these contributions mainly to those who have lower incomes. In the last place, my colleague is talking about the Academy of Sciences. I do not agree with the fact that it is normal for a doctor of physics or chemistry to be equal to an initial teacher. This is not normal, honourable Members. At the moment, it will be almost twice below the remuneration of an early teacher. We want to take serious steps and offer 15 million. BGN, with which to start a trend of normalization of the remuneration of young scientists and the more experienced in the Republic of Bulgaria, and especially in the Academy of Sciences. Last but not least, we are proposing an increase in social costs. Because, fellow Members, what do you get? Less money to invest, freeze social spending and increase government debt next year by 5 billion. 300 million. lv. What is the point of this additional burden for the Bulgarian people if there are no changes in growth and there are no changes in the social programs so as to build protection networks against people with the lowest incomes? So our proposals are balanced, they are read and they represent, once again, a balanced step towards a closer commitment of the budget to economic development and to social protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u498	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. To speak the word has the popular representative Atanas Zafirov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u499	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is some symbolism in the fact that one of the first speeches on the 2016 budget is on a topic and proposal related to spirituality and faith. If the authors of this budget want to convince us of its adequacy in this respect, then the amendment proposed by us with colleague Vasil Antonov concerning the provision of funds, namely 1.5 million to complete the repair of the Bulgarian monastery. Georgy Zografs in the Holy Forest and 500 thousand for the church St. George Zografs in the Holy Forest and 500 thousand for the Church of St. Georges. Konstantin and Elena "in Adrianople" should be voted with full unanimity in this House, even more so, that, notice, we propose that these funds be at the expense of the reserve for disasters and accidents, namely art. 1, para. 2, row 5, concerning a contingency or emergency reserve, the figure 71 100 becomes 69 100. If these funds proposed in the budget are still in the conditions of hypothesis, then the disaster, the crisis in the Bulgarian spirituality, the Bulgarian morality, is already a fact. This is a problem concerning the future of the Bulgarian nation, as well as an element of our national security. And what more universal treatment for this disease than an investment in spiritual heritage, in family memory, in culture? The Bulgarian Monastery "St. The zographer is not simple, colleagues, a religious center, is not just one of many monasteries. This monastery is a symbol of a thousand years of tradition, unblemished by division and heresy. This is a lamp that inspires hope and trust not only in believers but also in every Bulgarian soul. It is good to admit that in recent years the state has abdicated its support for the monastery. The last more serious financial injections of 2.1 million. euros were made at the time of Stanishev's cabinet, plus one amount, and a significant amount, by Oresharski's office. And on the monastery, colleagues, work is hard both on the outdoor decorations and on the interior public works of rooms and premises, the new monastery library, roofs of churches, household premises and so on. All of this, however, takes considerable financial resources. That is why our monk brothers need this support and I call on the Bulgarian National Assembly to vote on this proposal! And to those of our colleagues who usually play with the themes of patriotism, patriotism, traditions, I would like to remind you that Athos is a lamp that protects Christianity. There are even theories that Athos can become the new spiritual center of mankind, that the spiritual reincarnation of the world will begin from there. That is why we are obliged to give our due in this godly work. And, notice, fellow Members, this does not mean tolerating one religion at the expense of another. Because to no one are secret the huge financial flows of funds that flow to a number of other religious cults in Bulgaria at the expense of total futility and poverty in Bulgarian Orthodoxy. And in conclusion: please do not look at this proposal and the effect of it closely party or verbally! It's about national spirit and self-respect, history and tradition! [[Shouts: "Bravo!" and loud applause from the back of BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u500	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Here's a line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u501	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that you were on Athos on May 6th, together with Minister Daniel Mitov and several other colleagues present. I took a line first because a lot of untruths were said here by Mr. Zafirov. The first untruths are that the Bulgarian state does nothing to help the monastery. Georgy Zograf "This truly great mansion. Just a few months ago, a state delegation visited the monastery on its occasion. If you don't know, he's on May 6. The same delegation gave a very serious help to the monastery.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u502	How serious?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u503	Very serious. And at a very sebile moment. (Scanded by BSP LB: "How much, how much? ") If you were very interested, you'd know. A fire-fighting modern mobile car is equipped, which can only work in these complex conditions, money support for the burned wing...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u504	Please, no lines!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u505	...of the monastery. I'm asking you to take them very seriously. That's one. However, dear patriot, when you speak of patriotism, you first remember that there is a cathedral temple. Cyril and Methodius. It has been split for four years in Burgas. And you somehow purely patriotically don't think of this temple, and it's the same temple that Burgas gave the last penny to have, and it's also an architectural monument! If you had asked for a million and a half for this temple first, I would have really supported you. But pouring in a series of ridiculous untruths and playing with a religious theme that you don't have and a hal haber, I just can't accept it! All the best. [[(Sighs: "Eee!") by BSP LB. Single applause by PF.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u506	Second line? Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u507	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen! A line from colleague Zafirov, I will to a large extent give light in this way to my colleagues, as well as to my colleague before me. Last year, regarding the budget, we made a proposal for a correction within 3 million respectively with regard to the Commission for Religious Religions and it was precisely for the repair of the church. George is in Athos. Why three million? I'll try to be very brief. First of all, because since 2009 At the 40th National Assembly, we started a periodic separation of 500,000 to repair. The case is severe in the Holy Forest in the church. Georgheorgheist, because the renovation works are within 6 million somewhere. This amount is from 200 to 500 thousand. BGN, which is spent every year, cannot be spent fully because the way you can work there is with a very limited number of companies and too difficult to get access to work there...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u508	What do you disagree with Mr. Zafirov's statement? You're replicating it right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u509	Now you're gonna get the hang of it. And therefore, when it is necessary to separate this amount, it must be greater so that at least some final stage can be completed. And the other thing, Madam President, today is December 1st. 127 years ago, Antim I ended his life on this date. Antim I is known for two things. First of all, he is the exarch he separates in Adrianople in St. George's. Konstantin and Elena are supported by the Bulgarian Church of Byzantines. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And the second, which is, he is the first chairman of the Grand National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u510	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Is there gonna be a third line? Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u511	Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, first of all, I have never said that the state has not given funds, you have not listened carefully. But here, even with your biggest push, there's no way you can prove that a fire truck is more than two million that I quoted from Stanishev's government. That's the first lie you've told. The second lie concerning the funds for the temple "St. St. Cyril and Methodius. This is the first time I've heard you lie so blatantly from the National Assembly stand. You were a councillor in Burgas, and you should know these things...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u512	He wasn't a consultant in Burgas.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u513	...dismissed 1.5 million. lv. for this temple. Have you forgotten the fact that you're quoting some fantasies here? And which one do I have, or don't have, I'll just tell you that unlike you, I'm not an economist, an engineer, a theologian, a philosopher, a specialist in everything, I'm a graduate historian, so I pretend that my subject is well-known. Thank you. [[Loud applause from BSP LB and shouts: "Bravo, bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u514	To speak, the National Representative Dora Yankova. You're signed up for a statement, Mrs. Yankova. I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u515	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Vice-Presidents of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Ministers! My proposal, both separately and with the group of MPs from BSP left Bulgaria is regarding art. 1, para. 2 in the municipalities part. I believe that here in this Chamber, colleagues, more than 50% of the MPs, before they became such, were related to municipal affairs. In parallel to this, returning to the constituencies, one part of the issues we are dealing with is precisely the development of local communities, the modernisation of municipalities and the relationships of municipalities with the state budget. I believe that the proposal made by the Council of Ministers in the municipalities part of 2 billion. 662 million. 137,000. leva, it's not enough and I'll tell you why. I listened carefully during these two months of preparation of the budget and discussion with separate municipalities, and the discussion with citizens, including the protocol for disagreement with the Association of Municipalities, which accompanied this budget. In addition, statistics point to several facts. Firstly, you know, you are informed as MPs that this figure determines the relationship with the state budget of municipal budgets. For one part of the municipalities, this is 60% of the budgets, for another part for the smaller ones, that is about 85%. The statistics itself talk about the strong centralisation and the strong dependence of the local authorities on the central government, that is, on the relations that we will be signing for next year tonight. The statistics say something else. You will be very uncomfortable, so I urge you to support the proposal for an increase, which we do that with this budget we reach the lowest level of budgetary relations of the Bulgarian municipalities' share of gross domestic product in the period of 25 years. What's it say? During this budget, we have a 20 million increase in local activities and an estimated 160 million increase in delegated activities, mostly for education salaries. We therefore propose an increase of 194 million. 470 thousand BGN, which subsequently in the next concrete proposals and under art. 50, and in the other proposals that we have made, summarised by the group of MPs, we propose an increase in cases for the Bulgarian municipalities. I think we all owe that to the municipalities. I believe that when we give two billion to the government, regardless of yesterday's call by the prime minister to municipalities:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u516	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u517	Maybe except for the mayor of Sliven.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u518	Not just that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u519	In this situation, I think it is a very modest request, and the demand of municipalities and citizens to increase budgetary relations in cases for municipalities. And secondly, we are making another proposal, even though the national representative Zafirov has such a view in the part of overcoming disasters, the means for the consequences of disasters, I and a group of MPs believe that this is not enough. 70 million are traditionally attributed, our proposal is to be increased by another 50 million minimum. Because with each year the slowdown and non-refund of public state or municipal infrastructure is constantly erotic and expensive. In the Bulgarian municipalities there are only documents.. Minister Bachvarova knows, at least 500 million of them. Let us be more modest and go to 120 million, but let us allow the government to regulate and resolve these issues in a business way in a relationship with the government or with the ministers, as it sees fit. That's our offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u520	- What's the line? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u521	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u522	Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u523	Thank you, Madam President. As colleagues have spoken on the main proposals, from now on I will simply repeat what we have already heard, I propose an end to the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u524	A reverse opinion? Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u525	Thank you, Madam President. I'm making a reverse offer. I myself have signed up for a speech, a number of colleagues also have requests for speeches. In the end, we are discussing art. 1 of the State Budget Act, here is the whole philosophy of the budget, there are many other arguments and many proposals that have not been discussed and I think that it should be allowed the MPs to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u526	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made to end the debates under art. 1. Voted 103 MPs: 78, against 24, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u527	Madam President, I'm taking procedure in the manner of conduct. I know that it is not in your power to do this, but I ask you from the heights of your position to ask your colleagues from the ruling majority, although they do not take any part in the budget, given that this is a basic Law, given that there are separate feathers to be discussed, so colleagues from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party have signed up to make speeches on the various aspects of budgets, with the termination of the speeches you not only set records on the speed of adoption of the basic Law, not only do you not speak and do not intercede your opinions, but do not allow your colleagues from the opposition to express their opinions and perhaps hear them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u528	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u529	I would like to ask my fellow Members who have been to the European Parliament, is there such a procedure for ending speeches when discussing this thing, and is this a very beautiful way of acting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u530	The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. [[Reply on the left.]] There was no procedural proposal for re-voting. The procedure was the way it was conducted. And I was surprised. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 118 MPs: 37, against 22, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u531	Thank you, Madam President. As colleagues arrive and fail to vote, I propose a re-vote procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u532	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 129 MPs: for 48, against 39, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Velikov, Todorova, Mihov, Kancho Filipov, Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 130 MPs: 54, against 36, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u533	Dear President, honourable Members, representatives of the Council of Ministers! Unfortunately, some of the colleagues were unable to vote on this important text. I propose a re-election procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u534	If you reproduce the important text that we are voting on, I will really admit that your procedure is justified in substance. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] It's a re-vote. They voted 133 MPs: for 59, against 44, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Vasil Antonov and Atanas Zafirov. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 126 MPs: 42, against 57, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u535	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! My pull is failing, and I haven't been able to vote. Revoting procedure. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u536	It's a re-vote. They voted 136 MPs: 51, against 63, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Mikov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u537	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers! The proposal to give funds to the church was just rejected. St. Constantine and Elena.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u538	No, that was for
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u539	...where the monument of Antim I is. Today is December 1st and colleague Antonov mentioned that it is 127 years old from the death of the Vidin Metropolitan and Ekzarh Bulgarian Antim I. He was Chairman of the Grand National Assembly, Chairman of the Constitutional Assembly and was elected President of the ordinary National Assembly, but he has refused. A person who deserves this date the National Assembly and the cabinet, albeit in part, to honor his memory with one minute of silence! Please, Madam President, honor the memory of this holy Bulgarian! Thank you. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u540	Mr. Mikov, you know that there is a provision in our Rules of Procedure that governs to what point the proposals are being made. However, given that you propose to honor the memory of Antim I... [[The National Representatives of the Parliamentary Group of BSP LB become right.]] Can the group sit down until I'm done? [[The representatives of the SG of BSP LB continue to stand. Laughter, excitement.]] He is indeed a man with huge merit in the church liberation struggles of the Bulgarian people, as well as the first statesman at the Constitutional Assembly in Tarnovo in 1879, the Grand First National Assembly of Bulgaria elected as its chairman. I suggest a minute of silence. [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] Thank you. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group which the Commission does not support. They voted 122 MPs: 32, against 45, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Dora Yankova, which the Commission does not support. They voted 134 MPs: 46, against 51, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. Revoting on what grounds, Mr. Genov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u541	I didn't get a vote. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u542	Mr. Genov's re-voting procedure. Colleagues, I'm asking for more serious treatment. I'm giving it a chance and waiting long enough for everyone to vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u543	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! If you have met carefully, especially the MPs from the Smolyan and the Kardzhali constituencies...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u544	Not really, Mrs. Yankova. It's a re-vote procedure. Explain to Mr...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u545	I understand that colleague Stoyan Mirchev has not voted, and he asked me because he wants to support the proposal in this part of my proposal is the funds for the Smolyan Election Region. [[National Representative Dora Yankova continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u546	Thank you. I'm rethinking Mrs. Yankova's proposal. I'm essentially taking your word away because we're in a re-voting procedure. They voted 139 MPs: 53, Against 56, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mrs. Yankova's proposal, Mr. Genov and Mr. Stoychev. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 127 MPs: 37 against 64, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u547	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I want a re-voting procedure because I failed to vote, and I think, essentially, that colleagues did not understand that it was about additional money for the Bulgarian municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u548	Please check with the Secretariat and see if Mr. Stoychev voted. I'll sanction you if you vote. I'm stating it categorically. [[Strong noise and banging on banks from BSP LB.]] He didn't vote. It's a re-vote. [[Laughter, excitement and applause from BSP LB.]] They voted 130 MPs: for 48, against 59, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Karakachanov, Zelenogorski, Simeonov, Mihov, Nikolov, Angelov, Stanimirov, Milanov, Petrov, Merdjanov, Stoyanov, Bajraktarov, Mitev, Filipov, Vesselinov, Ivanov, Atanasov, Kasabov, Delchev, Dimitrov, Stanilov, Zafirov, Yankova, Bogdanov in its unsupported part. 1, because times t. 2 and 3 proposals of this group of MPs are supported. They voted 133 MPs: 44, against 40, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u549	Madam President, voting procedure for the next item.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u550	It is about the proposal of the gentlemen Mestan, Chobanov, Tsonev and a group of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u551	Thank you, Madam President. I have a procedural proposal to allow a separate vote only on the item. 2 of their proposal is created para. The second point of this paragraph shall also be: 2. for the investment programme "Renaissance of the underdeveloped regions" up to 110 million We believe, even though it is proposed by the DPS, it contains a rational element. On Monday 7 December 2015, we organised a meeting of the Northwestern sub-region related to the investment programme of the government for the revival of Northwestern Bulgaria. We therefore believe that this proposal can be voted on separately and could also be supported. That's what we at the Reformation Bloc think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u552	Is there a reverse opinion against the proposal for a separate vote? I won't. I put Mr. Veliv's proposal to the vote. 2 for the creation of para. 5, t. 2 of para. 5 to be voted separately from the other texts proposed by colleagues. They voted 125 MPs: 51, against 48, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u553	I didn't get a vote. Madam President, I apologize for not really being able to vote. Of course, you can make a reference. Colleagues, I'm asking you very much, this is about the Northwestern area.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u554	That's basically it, Mr. Haytov. Revoting, coworkers. Mr. Haytov, the Vice-President should set an example of quick and operational voting. [[Applause.]] They voted 133 MPs: 60 against 50, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the proposal made by colleagues Mestan, Chobanov, Tsonev, Imamov, Yankov and a group which the Commission does not support. They voted 135 MPs: 36, against 59, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Petar Chobanov, Yordan Tsonev and Mariana Georgieva. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 127 MPs: 32, against 61, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Milen Mihov and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 119 MPs: 27, against 43, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Mihail Mikov, Rumen Gechev, Zhelyo Boychev, Georgi Turnovalyski, Chavdar Georgiev, Georgi Gokov, Atanas Merdjanov, Krasimir Yankov, Filip Popov, Dora Yankova, Dimitar Dubov, Georgi Svilenski, Valeri Zhablyanov, Yanaki Stoilov, Tasko Ermenkov, Atanas Zafirov, Radoslav Stoychev, Svetla Bachvarova, Manol Genov, Mariana Boyadjieva, Ivan Ibrishimov, Stoyan Mirchev, Cornelia Ninova and Kristian Vigenin. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 129 MPs: 31, against 58, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. Procedure Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u555	Madam President, I understand the desire of colleagues on the left to seek to provoke the normal work of the National Assembly. I also understand your difficulty, but very please do not encourage the frank reluctance of colleagues to vote with their experience then to ask for a revoting because, you see, they could not vote. An example a little while ago. Anyone who wants to vote is enough to raise their hand so that they can vote. [[BSP LB.]] But this frankly is a reluctance to vote! It is the right of the Members of the National Assembly to vote against those who do not want to vote. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u556	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u557	Mr. Ermenkov wants a re-vote. I'll give you a chance too. He was first, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u558	Dear Madam President, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers! As one of the importers of these changes, you saw that I could not vote. Now I'm not going to explain to you any natural processes that I've never been to the gym for. I couldn't even wash my hands in a hurry. [[laughs, laughs.]] So I'm really asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u559	Colleagues, let's give Mr. Ermenkov a chance to vote. Revoting, coworkers. They voted 129 MPs: 36, against 63, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Mikov, the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u560	Thank you, Madam President. I call on you to follow the Rules, as you have done so far, and not give in to the suggestion of some impatient MPs who, apart from not wanting to have debates, except that they do not want to discuss the problems of the budget, are obviously already making it difficult for them to vote in the National Assembly. Thank you for following the Rules of Procedure and please do not succumb to such effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u561	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. I'll try not to give in to it. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Nayden Zenogorski, Dimitar Shishkov, Borislav Milanov, Valentin Pavlov, Nikola Hadzhiyski, Nastimir Ananiev, Borislav Velikov and Dimitar Delchev. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 134 MPs: 36, against 33, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of MPs Petar Chobanov, Stanislav Anastasov, Ramadan Atali, Hamid Hamid, Yanko Yankov, Devdet Chakarov, Erjan Ebatin, Saliha Emin, Erdinch Hajrula, Hussein Hafuzov, Jayhan Ibryamov and Mustafa Ahmed. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 130 MPs: 28, against 57, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u562	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! I am taking a procedure in the manner in which this meeting is held and I would like to note that when Mrs Stoyanova was reading the text of the Commission's editorial work, she simply said her own text. Is that right, Mrs. Stoyanova? I keep the tables read because [[crowd cheering, laughing]] it's a regulatory text. [[Noise, lines and laughter.]] This is a regulatory text, though shaped as a table. This is a regulatory text, though shaped as a table! Moreover, the figures recorded in these tables differ from the importer's proposal. Therefore, if you want to have a properly adopted budget of this country, behave more seriously, and I insist that the tables be read in order. [[Noise, lines and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u563	Mr. Georgiev, as you yourself said, it's about tables, so there's a graphical...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u564	I said normal lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u565	Yeah, a regulatory text with tables, which suggests a graphical layout. If it is read, I do not know in the practice until the National Assembly, how to indicate vertical features, horizontal ones, centimeters between them. [[Noise, lines, laughter.]] I ask for serious treatment and to stick to the parliamentary tradition, Mr. Georgiev. Thank you for your note in the manner of keeping it. I address Mrs. Stoyanova where it is possible to read, you will read, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u566	I'm reading, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u567	I shall put to the vote art. 1 in the version of the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u568	Read them the way we recorded them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u569	When did we read the charts? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u570	The horizontal features, what do we do with them? Did everyone vote? They voted 142 MPs: 108, against 34, no abstentions. Article 1 has been accepted. Negative vote. First Mr. Genov, second Mr. Georgiev, third Mr. Boychev. [[Movement of Members of Parliament in the Chamber.]] Colleagues, please don't move in the hall. The hearing is ongoing. There's no adjournment. It's disrespectful to colleagues in the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u571	Madam President, would you like to bring order to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u572	That's what I'm doing, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u573	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u574	Mrs. Stoyanova, you are disturbing Mr. Genov please sit in the chair!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u575	Oh, on the contrary, it doesn't bother me at all. Dear Madam President, honourable gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! I did not support this article in this budget because it highlighted the truth about the attitude of the government and the majority towards the Bulgarian municipalities. We forgot that these Bulgarian municipalities have about 2,000 km of linear network of municipal roads and the money for them is extremely insufficient. At the same time, we're going to increase the billings?! Let's increase them, but still on the same hall will be the public roads. There was money to raise the salaries at NEK, and there wasn't money for the kids and for the moms. There was no money for the municipalities. Nor was the proposal to increase the budget of the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance accepted. Mrs. Bachvarova knows very well that there are over 500 million damages, there are demands of municipalities for recovery. When do we get them back? After 20 years? The money for prevention of riverbeds is a proposal of colleagues from DPS. There's no prevention. That's why there's been an accident. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u576	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. The second negative vote is the public representative Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u577	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! I voted with full consciousness against this text from the State Budget Act because we did not actually adopt the regulatory text. It should be when the Law is promulgated, after para. 1 to write just one table without any digits. You never understood that the figures are actually a regulatory text, and they differ a lot from the figures submitted by the importer. How come we accepted something that just wrote........................................................................................................ What does this table contain? Which of you will now ensure that the table published in the Official Gazette will reflect what we have voted on? Who? Nobody. We just adopted some blanquet norm just like that, which shows, of course, your attitude towards this fundamental law for next year. The law that will give financial stability to the state. Secondly, I voted against it because it is an antisocial law. This is another law of right-wing policy, which involves cutting social costs and increasing stupid spending, if I may say so, in the state budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u578	Who are they?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u579	There's no politics here, there's no direction, there's no purpose. And our goal should be to develop this country, to create conditions for economic development, to create conditions for increasing consumption. Without raising consumption, that is, without a policy of increasing incomes, there is no way to develop the state. You have to understand that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u580	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Third negative vote.. People's representative Zhelyo Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u581	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against art. 1 under the State Budget Act, as it did not reflect our proposal to increase the revenue by 270 million. Notice, fellow Members, we have made this proposal, based on the forecasts that are an integral part of the budget's explanatory note, quoting macroeconomic indicators such as gross domestic product growth, such as increased consumption, such as increased investments and, based on a large part of the statements that the Minister of Finance has proposed, offering us this budget, with the arguments that he is putting increased legislative, regulatory and administrative measures to increase collection. We have proposed, notice, 50 million more revenue, only 50 million more revenue from personal income tax, and that is, given that we have an increase in the average wage, as long as you claim that there is an increase in employment as well. We offered only 100 million more revenue from VAT and only 120 million more revenue from excise duty, and that is given that all the legislative initiatives that you have continued as a reverse charge of VAT, such as the higher control of goods with financial risk to the state, I recall the debates on changes in the Law on excises and all the control that we have imposed on fuel levels, I recall all the stories that have spoken from this House and all this year for these 2 billion and more revenue, we have only offered 270 million more and they have been rejected. We have proposed a restructuring of the capital programme. And notice, of those 2.5 billion, which were an empty check, which the Prime Minister, by calling the mayors out, asked to make an investment programme. A programme promoting the development of individual regions and the balanced development of Bulgaria, not... You have not given this budget the opportunity to fulfil its main function.. to encourage the economic growth of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u582	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Ms. Stoyanova, art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u583	Under art. 2 has a proposal of the MPs Yavor Haytov, Svetlin Tanchev, Georgi Kovachev, Rumen Yonchev, Borislav Iglev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 6: The failure to implement the revenue under para. 1 shall be covered by an additional subsidy from the central budget. 2. Previously on AMC's... 6 and 7 become respectively. 7 and 8. 3. The creation of para. 9. The Council of Ministers, in agreement with the Supreme Judicial Council, shall make changes to the budget of the judiciary arising from laws which have entered into force and concerning the budget of the judiciary. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u584	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Yavor Haytov, Svetlin Tanchev, Georgi Kovachev, Rumen Yonchev and Borislav Iglev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 28 against 20, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's text of the importer for art. 2, who found a reflection in her report. Vote 88 MPs: 71 against 15, abstention 2. Article 2 of the Commission report has been adopted. Negative vote, Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u585	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen ministers! in writing. - I voted against the budget proposed by the judiciary importer because this budget is insufficient. We are talking about judicial reform, we are talking about rule of law, we are talking about safeguarding the rights of legal persons and individuals. One of the main prerequisites to have justice in Bulgaria, to have justice is to ensure the substantive and financial justice system. This budget won't provide it. It presupposes the reduction of courts and prosecutions, presupposes the lack of access to justice for thousands of citizens. That's why I voted against. I want to explain that in this way judicial reform and the imposition of justice and the rule of law cannot be done. See the remuneration of magistrates in other countries. They're 5 times 6 times higher. How can we fight after that and ask magistrates to work 24 hours in some courts when we do not provide them with minimum material and financial resources? Therefore, this Law does not provide for the development of the judicial function in this country.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u586	What a tragedy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u587	Yes, it's a tragedy, Mrs. Stoyanova, and it's a pity you're ironing her.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u588	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Negative vote, Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u589	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I voted against it because a reform of the judiciary has been adopted by all of us here by the Judicial Development Strategy, not only by changing the Constitution and controlling the Supreme Judicial Council. It's done by stimulating this system, this power by materially providing the people who work there, materially providing... [[Laughter]] Yeah, it may be funny to you, but you don't know how prosecutors work, how judges work and what conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u590	Please, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u591	It is nice to take a walk and see them right here in the District Court of Sofia, under what conditions the magistrates work under. And with this budget, you continue with the deformity in this judiciary, just as you started it with the amendment of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u592	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. People's representative Yavor Haytov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u593	Mrs. Stoyanova looks very hard, but I will gather courage and courage to make a procedural proposal. Thank you first, Mr. Chairman. I'm making a procedural offer to invite the Minister of Justice. When this very important Law and these extremely important texts are adopted, to be here because honor makes for many of the ministers the Minister of Defence is here, the Deputy Prime Ministers are here, and the Minister of Justice, notice, is absent at such an important, extremely important moment for the entire judiciary. Please very much do what you need to do.. Let not be the great absent person at this important and really decisive moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u594	Yeah, I'll invite him, even though the text was accepted. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] He was here and the text was accepted also.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u595	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u596	Statements? I won't. We will not invite the President of the National Assembly. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 3 which is supported by the Commission. Vote 113 MPs: 95 against 15, abstention 3. Article 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u597	Article 4? a proposal of the National Representative Diana Yordanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. (1) adopt the budget of the Court of Auditors for 2016 as follows: Mr. Chairman, we're following a graphically shaped table that we're applying to the protocol. The Court of Auditors shall establish the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2016 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2016 by the Court of Auditors as follows: a graphically shaped table which we apply to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u598	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u599	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, there is no money for mothers for raising children. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] There's no money for Sofia University. For staff in the Court of Auditors and in the Ministry of Energy there is money after a while. So, what sign do we give to society?! We will not support this text to increase the budget of central departments, since for the municipalities of disasters and accidents you did not wish in any way much more modest amounts were proposed, we are not talking about the Northwest, just to be good with the Court of Auditors. To be able to provide comfort, to be able to appoint more people there, but at some point there will be no one to check this Court of Auditors. People will pack their suitcases, leave and remain the government and the Court of Auditors on such a budget. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u600	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Are there any lines? People's representative Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u601	Dear Mr. Mikov, you are deluded because if you read our proposal carefully, specifically for the Ministry of Energy, it is for an increase in the amount of staff...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u602	But your member is not here, Mr. Dobrev!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u603	At the same time, the reduction in the capital costs of the Ministry. The Ministry's budget is not increasing. So don't let your fellow MPs down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u604	According to the Court of Auditors the reply, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u605	Since we haven't reached the Ministry of Energy, even though Mr. Mikov has passed, I would like to note to Mr. Mikov that no additional funds are given here. It's about an internal transfer of funds from one feather to another. Because with the Public Finance Act, we have written that the State Budget Act also accepts the internal allocation of the costs of ministries and offices, any such transfer from a feather to a feather, which does not increase the budget of the respective office and does not violate the overall balance, must go through the vote of the MPs. That's why the proposal was made. Do not deceive the MPs that extra money is being given.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u606	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u607	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also thank Mrs. Menda Stoyanova for introducing and correcting Mr. Dobrev's delusion. We are indeed discussing the Court of Auditors. You give more money for the staff. This is what you do in both places in this text and in the next energy text. You voted them under art. One, now you're redeploying them. The target is more money for staff. That's what you're doing! Otherwise, you're all reformers, a reformist majority. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u608	We're increasing consumption. Mr. Mikov, we follow your policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u609	Thank you, dear Mr. Mikov. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer edited by the Commission for art. 4 together with a graphically presented table with its respective content and numerical expression according to the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 115 MPs: 94, against 17, abstention 4. Article 4 of the Commission report has been adopted. Negative vote, Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u610	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I voted against art. Four, because we're giving 400,000. lv. to the Court of Auditors, which will be used unknownly for what. And what will the number in this Court of Auditors think?! At the same time, we took away from the poorest municipalities of Northwestern Bulgaria. We have made a proposal to increase capital expenditure by about 350 thousand. lv. for the Vidin region. I know they won't be accepted, but at the same time, 400,000 will be accepted. lv. for the gentlemen of the Court of Auditors. Forgive me, gentlemen of the Court of Auditors, but I think that the people of Northwestern Bulgaria, of the Vidin region, need this subsidy much more than the gentlemen of the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u611	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Any other negative votes? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u612	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u613	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 5 which is supported by the Commission and reflected in its report. Please vote. Vote 117 MPs: 90 against 25 abstentions 2. Article 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u614	Under art. 6 there is a proposal of Vasil Antonov and Atanas Zafirov: in art. 6, para. 1 Section II, p. 1.2 the number Proposal by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs supported by the Commission. [[Noise, cheer and applause in the hall.]] Proposal by Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 the following changes shall be made: 1 C. 1: - Section II "Costs" and Section III "Budget relationships" the following changes are made: - Section II, the number - Section II row 2 the number - Section III, the number..65 300,0.. to be replaced by.70 - Section III row 1 The number 2. In para 2 row 5, the number the number of the number of the vehicle is replaced by the number of the vehicle which is to be replaced by the number of the vehicle which is to be replaced by the 3. In para.Z, row 1, the number 4. A new paragraph 5 shall be inserted: In the capital expenditure under para. 1 and, respectively, the costs of the "Policy in the area of the archive case' include 5 000 thousand. lv. to modernise and expand the capacity of archives which cannot be spent for other purposes. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Milen Mihov and Emil Dimitrov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 (a) the following amendments shall be made in paragraph 1: (aa) in column 2 of row II, the number (bb) in column 2, in row II.2, the number (b) In para. 2, in column 2, in row 5 "Policy in the field of archive case', the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: Art. 6. (1) Accepts the budget of the Council of Ministers for 2016 as follows: (Follows a graphically shaped table of verbal and numerical images that we apply to the protocol.) (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 by policy areas and budget programmes as follows: (Follows a graphically shaped table with a verbal and numerical expression.) (3) Confirms the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2016 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2016 by the Council of Ministers as follows: (Table in digital and graphical image that we apply to the protocol.) (4) Approves the allocation of the subsidy for faiths registered under the Religious Law, pursuant to Annex No 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u615	Statements? Mr. Julian Angelov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u616	Mr. Chairman, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll take the floor under art. 6 " Let's put a little positive atmosphere into things today. One of the proposals made concerns the Bulgarians abroad. Seven parliamentary groups have supported him in the Bulgarian Parliament, which is a good sign for Bulgarians abroad that the Bulgarian National Assembly, even if there are different views on certain issues, all of us are united behind helping and helping Bulgarians abroad to have better care. I would like to thank all seven parliamentary groups who have supported this proposal. Let's wish there were more things that could unite us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u617	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u618	Honorable Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, gentlemen and ladies Members of the House! I know the fate of our proposal with colleague Emil Dimitrov, but I would like to say two short sentences first of all to the executive. This proposal, as in the other paragraphs, wanted to separate about 700 thousand. lv. for the needs of the State Agency "Archives". This, although with a bad end to our proposal, is important to be heard by the executive. The state of the Bulgarian archives, of the archives is extremely worrying. Valuable documents from the Bulgarian Archive Fund are stored under conditions that contradict all requirements laid down by the Law and the legal basis both in the district government archives and in the Warehouses of the State Agency. This is something we should focus on, ministers and ladies, in the efforts to preserve the Bulgarian archive wealth, which is of priceless value. That's why I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u619	Thank you, dear Assoc. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Antonov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u620	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Our proposal under this paragraph is precisely for an increase of $2 million per religion from $4 million to $6 million. Although we commented here earlier with the colleague, I think we have once again the opportunity to correct the miss that we have made. It is about two properties that are outside Bulgaria with regard to the creed for two sanctuaries. One is Aton's, the other is in Adrianople. I ask you to support this patriotic proposal of ours, all the more so that in most of the parties there are the parties in which the parties are called....................................in most of the parties....................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u621	A line to Mr. Antonov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Antonov and Mr. Zafirov, which the Commission does not support. Vote 128 MPs: 46, against 33, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 120 MPs: 15 against 55, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Milen Mihov and Emil Dimitrov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 115 MPs: 38, against 30, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. I shall vote on the Commission's proposal in favour of art. 6 on the Commission report by para. 1, 2, 3 and 4. They voted 125 MPs: 100, against 22, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u622	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 7 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u623	We are voting on Articles 7 and 8 on the Commission report. They voted 125 MPs: 119, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u624	Art. 9 The proposal of the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments shall be made: (a) In para. 1 in the table: (aa) in row II the cost of the number (bb) in row II. 1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (c) of row III of the European Parliament and of the Council, the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the European Economic and Social (b) In para. 2 in the table: (aaa) in rows 5 "Other budget programmes (total), including: The budget programme is replaced by the national compensation fund of 11 371, 0' is replaced by 21 371, 0'; bb) the row without number (s): the number (s): the number (s).403 472.0s (s) is replaced by the number (s) of the row (s) of row (s) of row (s) of row (s) of row (s) of row (s) of row (s) of row (s) of row (s) of row (s) of row The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u625	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group which the Commission does not support. They voted 124 MPs: 45 against 47, abstentions 32. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 9 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 119 MPs: 91, Against 11, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u626	Under art. 10 has a proposal from the MP Christian Vigenin: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is "1." In para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in I. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - at 1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - in a line of revenue from state fees, the number (b) in II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. - at 1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - at 1.1. The number of the number of the Member States of the European Union is replaced by the number of the Member States of the European Union (hereinafter - at 2. "Capital costs' is replaced by "46 163,0'. 2. In para. 2, p. 1 the number "sec 102 953,9' is replaced by the number "sec 103 953,9'. 3. The following amendments shall be made to the Budget Programme 1100.00.00. (a) in I. The total government expenditures and the number of the total costs of the company shall be replaced by the number of the total costs of the company. - in line - in line (b). in II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - in t. 1 "Ascension of Irina Bokova's candidacy for the post Secretary-General of the United Nations. - in t. 2 "Presidency of the Cooperation Process in South-East Europe" (the number..477 000) is replaced by.517 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u627	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u628	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a chronically underfunded system as the costs were sharply and dramatically cut during Mr. Boyko Borisov's first cabinet by about 40%, and sharply. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is one of the few, if not the only ministry whose administration has been decreasing continuously and annually for ten years. The salaries are among the lowest in the public administration, in times lower than the corresponding positions in the Ministry of Finance, for example, and the requirements are among the highest for occupying posts. These factors in combination pose a severe risk to the system's ability to function at all, let alone function effectively. At the same time, events in the world since 2013 especially in global terms and within the European Union require Bulgaria to strengthen its capacity in the field of analysis, formulation and implementation of foreign policy, which takes maximum account of the needs and specific interests of the country. There is a Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018, which will require both capacity building and more capital costs to repair embassies and the central building of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which you probably do not know, but is sinking, cracked, is probably already dangerous for the employees themselves. There are two important topics for the country next year, which are marked in the budget, but the funds provided for them, in my opinion, are insufficient. It is about Irina Bokova's candidacy for UN Secretary General and the Presidency of the Cooperation Process in Southeast Europe of Bulgaria until July 2016. I've made a very modest offer, quite realistic. It is based on an assumption that the Ministry's own revenues will be higher. For example, Mrs. Angelkova's recent events and statements give me additional grounds for this, as she expects more Russian tourists. This also means more visas to be issued. This one million more in the Ministry's budget will give breath to both employees and the Ministry's leadership. I suggest you support this proposal. Again, it's realistic. I know the Commission didn't support it. She probably didn't know exactly what was behind it, but I'm counting on you to really understand this Ministry. You'd ask why the opposition cared about the administration and a ministry like foreign affairs? I think it is in our common interest that Bulgaria should have a strong foreign policy, and this cannot be done from the air. It requires the corresponding capacity and people to realize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u629	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Mr Vigenin's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 113 MPs: 44, against 39, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 10 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 78, against 25, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u630	Under art. 11 there is a proposal of the MPs Atanas Merdjanov, Krasimir Yankov, Dimitar Dubov, Philip Popov, Ivan Ivanov, Tasco Ermenkov, Atanas Zafirov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in Section II - in t. 1 "Current expenditures" (the number "948 754.0") is replaced by "953 754.0" (the number "the number" is replaced by "the number") and "the number" (the number "the number") is replaced by "the number - in t. 1.1. The number "727 500,0" is replaced by "732 500,0" by the number "727 500,0" is replaced by "732 500,0." (b) in Section III, the number - T. 1 the number..983 2. in para. 2: - in row 2, the number - in line "Everything is replaced by "Everyone" by "Everyone" = "Everyone" = "Everyone" = "Everyone" = "Everyone" = "Everyone" = "Everyone" = "Everyone" = "Everyone" = "Everyone" = "Everyone" = The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11, para. 1 Section II. The following amendments shall be made: 1. in line II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 35000. 2. in line II. 1. Ongoing costs. The number..948 754.0.. is replaced by.953 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u631	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u632	Dear Madam President, honourable gentlemen and ministers! Dear Minister of Defence, the proposal that we are making, after reading so many numbers, is simply a elementary increase in staff costs by 5 million. That's the idea we have. In my opinion, this is something that is extremely important, as you know what the situation is at the moment, you know that national security issues have priority. One day, I was asked: can we find a common language?.................................................................................................... I took the liberty of saying that a common language can be in the field of national security, and that is if we place national interests, but here, as you can see, are not only national, but are the allied obligations that we have. You know that in the Bulgarian Army there is one failure of more than 4,000 people who currently exist and no financial resource is provided for the completion of this failure, i.e. the Bulgarian Army by state has fewer than 4,000 people than there can be and should have. Therefore, I call on you all who care about national security, all who think it is a priority, all who think that national security is not only to express positions in newspapers, televisions and radios, but also to do something for it in practice to increase the capacity of the Bulgarian Army, support this proposal of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u633	- What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u634	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, you are right that the funds are intended for staff assembly, but you miss one detail that not only for the staff but also for improving the conditions of the Bulgarian officers. I think the Minister will also not challenge this statement of mine that a number of Bulgarian officers who graduated from the Higher Military School are leaving the ranks of the Bulgarian Army because it is not attractive for them there. We have an extremely serious lack of personnel to work in the ranks of the Bulgarian Army, especially in this situation, which is currently extremely acute in the sphere of security, not only in national but also worldwide. I call on my colleagues to support this proposal so that the Bulgarian Army can be a worthy army to protect the Bulgarian national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u635	Second line? A hole, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u636	I don't have much to add to what my colleague Ivanov said. I can only mention what we have just discussed with colleagues on the right that there is a shortage of average echelon by majors, captains who are there at the moment in the Bulgarian Army. It's nice to still bet some money in perspective and in staff. Yeah, I know there's a ratio between capital expenditure and personnel that needs to be respected, but still, when it gets stuck with personnel, the technique won't help without someone running it. I therefore urge you once again to support this 5 million for staff in the Ministry of Defence. I would like to stress here that this is not about administration, but about field officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u637	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 96 MPs: 31, against 39, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u638	Colleagues, please vote for this money anyway, you'll have to, even if it's not for staff. Once we get the engines back from Poland and they're good for nothing, we're gonna need money for new engines. So give me that $5 million. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleague Emil Raynov couldn't vote, please re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u639	It's a re-vote. They voted 96 MPs: 31, against 45, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 103 MPs: 28 against 41, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on art. 11 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 113 MPs: for 85, against 26, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u640	Under art. 12 has a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and group: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in Section II "Costs', the number - in t. 1 "Current costs' is replaced by 1 111 977'; - T. 1.1. the number of the number of the Member States of the European Union is replaced by the number of the Member States of the European Union (hereinafter (b) in Section III, the number - T. 1 the number "seven7 203" is replaced by "synchronous" and "synchronous" is replaced by "synchronous" and "synchronous" is replaced by 2. in para. 2: - in row 2, the number..161 646..171 - in row 4, the number - the number of the number of.126977 is replaced by.1 136 977. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1 The following amendments shall be made: 1. in line II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 65000. 2. in row II.1. "Current expenditures' the number "1 111 977" is replaced by "1 121 977". The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u641	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u642	Dear Madam President, honourable members of the Council of Ministers! I don't see Mrs. Bachvarova. Colleagues, the budget is structured in the same way as it was 20 years ago. However, the budget is now required to be based on programme budgeting. The one we're looking at is called a programming budget without being such. So it's just terminologically named that way. And what can we find out? The budget is arranged according to legal functions and activities under the Act for the Ministry of Interior Police, Border, Fire Department and all others. The programs are on the tasks of the main directorates. The difference with the budget of the Ministry of Interior a decade ago is that in the previous, more than 20 years ago, is by national services. And nothing different from 25 years ago when the National Assembly first sent information that salaries were over 92% of the budget. I mean, we do the budget in sections: programs that form, civilians and everyone else. There's nothing new about the proposal. I thought you said there was going to be a reform. Does this not imply a programme for reform, accompanying and managing changes? The nature of the announced intentions of reform brought policemen out on the street, brought out policemen to protest to defend their rights, and nothing is seen from the Project "What reform will be done," will it be done, what its priorities are, what its objectives are. A reform that is not reflected in financial parameters is impossible. The set goals are for a time of peace and prosperity. The objectives are actually the tasks of the Ministry of Interior Act. I ask: Shouldn't terrorism prevention be a priority with the accompanying programme of the refugee wave problem? And it is in this part that we have made a proposal for an increase in the budget for the protection of the state border. With the Project budget, all the activities of the Ministry is a priority..... without priority. Or we could say: all over the front of the fight against crime. Honourable Managing Officers! The security environment imposes quite other objectives on the budget of the Ministry of Interior. How will information technology be developed and implemented in the Ministry of Interior? On the one hand, you state that these activities should be transferred to the so-called State-owned enterprise and submitted to the National Assembly such a draft law, on the other hand, is provided for funds under the budget of the Ministry of Interior. Is it unclear whether new police systems, as necessary, will be implemented and will existing ones be maintained, and with what money? We ask for specific systems are support for an integrated regional police system that is from 1993 and it's not really supported? And that's where the central police register is tied up, for example. I do not see the advertised new organization for issuing personal documents in the three-year forecast. A bill has been introduced... Do you actually refuse or understand the bankruptcy of Bachvarova's proposal on the proposal for amendment of the Ministry of Interior Act? One more thing. The draft law amending the Ministry of Interior Act provides for a special courier service to be transferred to DXI. The draft budget of the Ministry of Interior aims at how much classified materials will be transferred and financial resources for this. Chaos?! You are proposing a budget that is contrary to your stated intentions by specific proposals, a majority decision. In fact, colleagues, did you ask Boyko Borisov how to vote for art. 12? I heard that Minister Bachvarova is justified by Mr. Goranov for other texts of the State Budget Act, of course, but they actually have different opinions about the conditions in which the services work, that is, the effectiveness of the work of the Ministry of Interior. Colleagues from GERB! A representative of your accompanying party also tour the TV studios for Mr. Atanas Atanasov is talking about, explaining that the police have gaps in training, qualification and re-qualification and on this issue raised by the government there is no solution with the draft budget. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There is no specific programme, and the objectives indicate that there will be initial and subsequent specialized training, which is regular in the activities of the Ministry of Interior at the moment. And the most serious argument. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Madam President. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] About your arrogance, your self-esteem and your criminal negligence...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u643	I've given a sign, don't worry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u644	...is in Annex No 3. In fact, with this big budget, we will be fighting 25 organized criminal groups, and there will be 560 analytical documents drawn up...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u645	Thank you, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u646	...based on what information? Mr. Tsvetanov, have you met any suggestions...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u647	Mr. Yankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u648	...a bill and how will you vote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u649	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u650	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Unfortunately, I do not see here the Minister of Interior, because this part of the budget is extremely important, especially in today's situation, which we are all witnessing, and perhaps should have been here and gave today an explanation of what happened at Sofia Airport, a panic that has cast a shock on everyone, and in the end it turned out to be a koörfishek. These proposals that we have made to change the budget and to adopt the increase with the amounts we have proposed are precisely to avoid such incidents as today, to increase the qualification of the staff of the Ministry of Interior, to prepare them for action in similar situations, to prevent such crimes. Unfortunately for me, neither yesterday in the Commission, nor today here I see some lively debate on this subject, and the issue of security and especially about what is happening in the Ministry of Interior is extremely up-to-date. You know, just a few weeks ago, there were the employees of the Ministry of Interior outside and protested. To my delight, you have heard much of their demands. What we are proposing is extremely important, especially in its part of security at our borders, to increase the ability of our border guards to prevent illegal crossing our borders. That is why my request and appeal is to all MPs is to support our texts, so that no more happens what happened at Sofia airport today, that what happens every day is that the border passes more than 300 people, 400 people, then we wonder what to do with them here and how to integrate them into our society. It is for this reason that I again appeal to you to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u651	Any other MPs? A line? You are here within one minute because one minute you were speaking more. We're listening, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u652	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Ivanov, I assume that you have been familiar with Annex 3 to the 2016 State Budget Project, how will you interpret the indicators included in the forecast for 100 000 crimes in the framework of 2016? Does this mean that if the registered crimes are over 100,000 in the course of the year, because a budget is envisaged to investigate 100,000 crimes, according to the proposed Annex 3 will stop the registration of crimes? Thank you. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u653	What if there's less?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u654	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u655	Dear Madam President, honourable representatives of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Yankov, you are indeed very right. Excuse me for my negligence and noticing such a thing in the budget text and in this mid-term forecast. Understanding your words, perhaps that means that when we reach this limit, we will stop registering crimes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u656	And if they stay below the limit, what will you do?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u657	The issue is indeed very serious and must be taken into account, and not only in the debates we are doing here today in the Chamber regarding the budget, but in the debates in the Commission, but also in the subsequent debates on the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act. I am extremely worried about this finding of yours, and I only accept your remark as justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u658	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Atanas Merdjanov, Krasimir Yankov, Dimitar Dubov, Philip Popov, Ivan Ivanov, Tasco Ermenkov and Atanas Zafirov, which is not supported by the Commission. This proposal implicitly contains an identical part of the proposal by the MPs Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, also not supported by the Commission. They voted 112 MPs: 26, against 31, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 12 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 123 MPs: 91, against 29, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u659	Thank you, Madam President. I voted against the proposed budget of the Ministry of Interior because this budget does not in any way correspond to the reality in which Bulgaria is located. Because this budget cannot guarantee the safety and calmness of Bulgarian citizens. Because he can't protect the Yota from our external borders. Because it does not imply personnel development and securing of personnel in the Ministry of Interior and development of personnel policy in the Ministry of Interior. I voted against this budget because what are we really going to do with this budget? What was the number of the crimes of 100,000 divided and more than 100,000?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u660	You haven't read Annex 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u661	No, I read it, Madame Chairman! What will happen to them? Perhaps selective, depends on who did it. Dear Members of Parliament, for all the negative consequences of voting on this budget, you will be responsible. Because you have not taken it into account at all with the reality in which Bulgaria is located in our external border as well as with regard to security in Bulgaria. We cannot deal not only with domestic crime, not to mention the threats of terrorism that we all face.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u662	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mrs. Stoyanova, report to Art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u663	Under art. 13 has a proposal of Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: The following changes shall be made in Art.13: 1. In para. 1, Section II "Costs" and Section III "Budget relationships" the following changes shall be made: - Section II, the number..205 132,0....................................................................................................... - Section II row 2. the number - Section III, the number..145 132,0...................................................................................................... - Section III row 1. the number..145 2. In para. 2 row 2 the number - line......................................................................................................... 3. In para. R row 1. the number s£85 000,0s to be replaced by £105 000,0s to be replaced by £105 000s. 4. The creation of para. 4. In the capital expenditure under para. 1 and, respectively, the costs of the Punishment Policy are included 20 000 thousand. lv. to improve conditions in places of imprisonment which cannot be spent for other purposes. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u664	Are there any speeches? They will take place on tomorrow. So far, we'll cut to second reading of the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u665	I have a proposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u666	What is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u667	Editorial. Tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-01.u668	Let us thank the members of the cabinet for their participation in our plenary extraordinary sitting. Tomorrow's regular plenary session at 9:00, we continue with the debates on art. 13. I'm adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
