ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u1	I shall open the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] One communication, colleagues: on 2 July 2015 from the National Statistical Institute received Information on key indicators for the development of the economy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 2 July 2015. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Now we're going to discuss THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE TRADE REGISTER. Importers are Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. With the second reading report, I expect a representative of the Legal Committee. Report for the second vote of the Commercial Register Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to you: Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act No 554-01-82, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov and Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov on 25 April 2015. The Law on the Commercial Register was amended and supplemented. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u3	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 153 MPs: 150 against 1, abstention 2. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u4	Proposal of the National Representative Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In (5) For the performance of its functions the agency shall be entitled to free access to the data in the register of the population maintained at national level.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u5	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 with its corresponding content on a Commission report. Please vote. They voted 141 MPs: 132, against 2, abstention 7. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 with its respective content per report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u6	Proposal of the National Representative Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 3 a new sentence shall be created first: The applications for entry of initial registration of traders shall be considered by the end of the next business day of their entry into the Trade Register and the decision shall be made immediately after examination of the application, except in the cases referred to in art. 22, para. The first sentence becomes the second sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u7	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Please vote. Vote 139 MPs: 138, against none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with a report content has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u8	Paragraph 1 of the importing Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 1, which becomes § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. In cases where the applicant has indicated email, the instructions shall also be sent to the applicant within the term referred to in the second sentence and the previous sentences shall be the fourth and fifth sentences respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u9	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text edited by the Commission for § 1 by importer, which in the Commission report becomes § 3. Please vote. They voted 134 MPs: 134, no opposition and no abstentions. The text for § 3 in accordance with the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u10	Paragraph 2 of the importing proposal of the National Representative Petar Slavov: § 2 is deleted. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u11	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 2. Vote 127 MPs: 125 against 1, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to reject § 2 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u12	Proposal of the National Representative Petar Slavov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Petar Slavov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish a Final provision with § 4: "Concluding provision' § 4. The Registry Agency shall keep its activities in accordance with this law no later than 4 months after its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u13	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. First, I would like to thank my fellow Members from all the parliamentary groups who supported these proposals. The specific provision appeared at a Commission meeting after we commented with representatives of the Registry Agency that they still needed a technological period to implement the proposals for changes that we have just adopted. So we've recorded this four-month period where, by the way, if you notice, it's said that it's going to be a later one. That is to say, we have a commitment by the Agency to do the maximum and significantly before these 4 months begin to notify by e-mail all applicants who have indicated such, the possible need to make any ambiguities or if any gaps are allowed, to be removed in order to avoid any refusals and applications to be respected. I don't have to say how it will once make business easier and save him a lot of expenses, but it will also make it easier for the Agency itself, as it will not send dozens and hundreds of letters with a return receipt to inform people in the current order of given refusals, which, of course, saves and its human resources, so let's support this. Once again, thank you all for your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Do you have any lines for the speech of the MP Petar Slavov? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to establish a Final provision with § 4, with its respective content on the Commission report. 110 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to establish a Final provision with § 4, with its content on the Commission's report, has been adopted, and thus the Second Voting Bill. Go ahead, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the House, Mr. Chairman! I propose a change in the agenda relating to the Law on Protection of Competition, or more popular as the retail chains. An agreement has been reached on this Bill, but fairy tales have already begun that it is slowing down deliberately, because the so-called modern trade is imposing some kind of delay, as in the previous Assembly during the President's meeting, a veto has been imposed and has returned. The bill has been cleared. It's already been another week on the agenda. Let's move on to watching the t. This is actually my procedural proposal. I think we'll be done by break time to finish this topic that's been going on for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u17	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedure proposed by the MP Mihail Mikov to change the order of the points in our voted programme. They voted 123 MPs: 64 against 19, 40 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u18	Mr. Chairman, not all colleagues have been able to vote. We want a re-vote. We will support this proposal because consensus has been reached at a meeting of the Economic Commission on all issues and there will be no serious debate. The texts will pass with the support of probably all parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u19	It is enough that some Members have failed to vote. We are revising the proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov. They voted 141 MPs: 72, against 21, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Part of GERB's group did not support the procedural proposal, because the seventh point in today's programme is a second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government is essential. I am making a new procedural proposal: the Law on Protection of Competition to pass after the seventh point on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, if there is a consensus on these texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u21	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Delyan Dobrev. Vote 124 MPs: 112 against 7, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEAR PARTICIPATION OF CIVILS IN STATE POWER AND LOCAL REPRESENTATION. Mr. Kirilov, please inform the MPs of the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention a Report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Direct Participation of Citizens in State Power and Local Self-government, No 554-01-99, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 22 May 2015. The Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u23	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 136 MPs: 125 against 8, abstention 3. The text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u24	Under § 1, there is a proposal by Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 23. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and make the following amendments to § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following 1. In para. The second sentence of the sentence is replaced by the second sentence of the election committee and a third sentence is created: In the production of a national referendum and general elections for municipal councillors and mayors, municipal electoral committees perform the functions of organizing a national referendum on the territories of the municipalities. 2. In para. 3 A sentence is created second: the Central Election Commission appoints the sectional election committees outside the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u25	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer edited by the Commission for § 1. Vote 138 MPs: 104 against 11, abstention 23. The text of Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted. For a negative vote, the public representative Mihail Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I voted against because the reconciliation of the two functions in the implementation of the selection, in the reporting of the results, in the shaping of the papers will lead to chaos on election day, will greatly delay the election process, will make it difficult for the citizens, will form queues in front of these sectional committees, and then... then to think about the members of the electoral committees, who will have to draw up minutes for the election of the municipal mayor, to take account of the election of municipal councilors and preferences in the respective ballots, to take account of the election of the mayor of the population and to take into account and count the votes in the referendum. And all of this has to be done within some reasonable time. This is absurd! These people will be extremely busy. This poses very serious risks to the conduct of the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Mikov. Come on in on § 2, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, the importer's proposal for § 2 is: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 1 words in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria According to § 2 there is a proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: the existing text of § 2 becomes point. 1 and is created t. 2: "2." In para. 2 words "91a, Art.103 " are deleted and points 6 and 7 are added: It's six. concerning the rights of Bulgarian citizens; 7. concerning national security. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u29	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want to support and hope that the importer Georgi Kadiev is here...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u31	He's gone. I don't see him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u32	...to justify his proposal. It's a shame if he's not here, because that's a very good offer, at least in one part. This proposal provides for the list of topics to be excluded from the subject of a national referendum to include issues related to the fundamental constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens. Mr. Kadiev suggests that topics that affect the fundamental constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens should not be offered in a referendum. There's no more logical, more correct proposal than that. The Bulgarian Constitution in its Second Chapter. "Main Rights and Obligations of Bulgarian Citizens" clearly and categorically fixed the rights of Bulgarian citizens and their obligations. In accordance with art. 57 of the Bulgarian Constitution the fundamental constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens are inalienable, that is, they cannot be abolished even through a referendum. The Constitution itself provides that all questions concerning art. 57, para. 2, that is, the fundamental rights of Bulgarian citizens, who are inalienable, the only body that can change the chapter of the main rights of the Bulgarian citizens is a Grand National Assembly. We know very well that issues within the competence of the Grand National Assembly are also not subject to a referendum. It is no coincidence that when we adopted the Law on direct participation of citizens in government and local self-government, we explicitly excluded from the subject of a possible referendum issues of the competence of the Grand National Assembly to be clearer. That's why Georgi Kadiev is making this proposal. I propose that the words of the constitutional rights of the Bulgarian citizens should be excluded from the scope of any national referendum. The new t. 7, which he proposes,.. affecting national security, is a very broad concept. I suggest you drop it. Mr. Chairman, I suggest you put my proposal to the vote separately. 6 with the edit that I propose to you:.. concerning the fundamental constitutional rights of the Bulgarian citizens.. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u33	- What's the line? I won't. Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u34	Honourable Members, Mr. President, the BSP has a clear and consistent position aimed at creating an opportunity for citizens to participate in real government and local government, as one of the ways by conducting a direct inquiry through referendums. Proof of this is the fact that the first Law on referendums was adopted in the National Assembly, in which BSP was the largest parliamentary group and that the first national referendum in our latest history was organized by BSP. In the process of initiating the National referendum on nuclear themes, we were convinced that the thresholds laid down in the Law, both in terms of the number of signatures needed to initiate a referendum and its validity, were too high to explain, in practice, after referendums. After holding a referendum that has not caused a mandatory effect for the National Assembly, people are wondering why they were collecting signatures, why they participated in the vote for a referendum. It is clear that the thresholds must still be lowered to an extent that does not make the misuse of referendums possible. At this point...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u35	That's the next paragraph. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u36	On the contrary, it's all about § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u37	This is the next proposal to create a new paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u38	Against this background we will support the proposals of Borislav Borisov and a group of MPs, and Georgi Kadiev to reduce the necessary signatures for initiating a referendum, respectively in the next texts on its validity. [[Heckling]] I'll save myself a speech on the next text so I don't have to repeat myself. I believe that the optimal option to reduce the required number of signatures is proposed by the ABB with the reduction of the petition for a mandatory referendum from 500 thousand to 300 thousand and from 200 thousand to 150 thousand for initiating and discussing a general consultation. The concrete proposal of Georgi Kadiev, which was presented and in which Cetin Kazak asked for a separate vote, I would also support the request for a separate vote so that the various hypotheses could be treated differently by voting from the MPs. In general, I believe that the proposals that Georgi Kadiev made on this point. 2 to remain within the scope of the referendum issues concerning the impeachment of the President is not a good proposal, nor is the possibility to hold referendums concerning national security. In general, both in general and in a separate vote, Georgi Kadiev's proposal will not support me personally.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u39	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, thank you for supporting my proposal for a separate vote on the newly proposed item. 6 and so on. 7, because they are really quite different and deserve separate attention. I would like to hear your arguments about the proposal. 6. You said you didn't agree with that. 7 to add national security issues, which I also support, as it is a very broad concept, and the impeachment of the President. However, I did not hear any arguments about.... nor arguments....................... about the proposal to exclude from the scope of the referendums issues related to the fundamental constitutional rights of the Bulgarian citizens. I would also like to hear the opinion of other colleagues from Coalition for Bulgaria, for example, of Yanaki Stoilov, who is one of the authors of this Law. Do you not believe that the fundamental constitutional rights enshrined in Chapter 2 of the Bulgarian Constitution cannot be subject to a referendum? Otherwise, if this is allowed, you know very well that very often with the votes of the majority, minorities can be deprived of rights. It's something that's happened and it's completely real. What? The Constitution guarantees the rights of Bulgarian citizens, but through a referendum we will take them away. Is this your opinion if you do not support Georgi Kadiev's proposal to include this text? I want an answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Manolova, I would also very much like to hear your answer as a lawyer. Mr. Kadiev is forgiven. He is not a lawyer and we should not be angry with him about such an offer. I want to hear you. What is written in the Constitution and in the Law on referendums is that with a referendum no issues of the competence of the Grand National Assembly can be considered. Since it is explicitly stated in the Constitution that only a Grand National Assembly can repeal provisions relating to the fundamental rights of citizens, does such a text need to be recorded in this way? Or, in fact, this is about something else and, in fact, the gentlemen, who are trying to sabotage the upcoming referendum and the issue of mandatory voting. Looks like it to me. In the Commission, we have argued very much whether this issue is really admissible and so on. I would very much like to hear your opinion as a lawyer, is it acceptable to record such a thing? Is it acceptable, given what is written in the Constitution, do you think it is correct? What do you think is going on under the pretext of talking about protecting citizens' fundamental rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Third line. "The People's Representative Dimitar Lazarov."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I agree with what the previous colleague said. As much as you have spoken on this subject, and you have been told that you see constitutional rights with a referendum can only be taken away, the text implies something else. There may be a referendum on extending constitutionally fixed rights. Let us not abuse the text, although formally speaking on the rights provided for in the Constitution adopted by the Grand National Assembly, there is no way to hold a referendum. Let us not abuse that it is merely a forfeiture of rights. A referendum can also be triggered to extend citizens' rights, although not constitutionally fixed, but further developed by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u45	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u46	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kazak, in fact your concern is unnecessary because of the point. 1 of para. 2 of art. 9 It is clearly said that the national referendum cannot solve issues that are within the competence of the Grand National Assembly. So the concerns that fundamental constitutional rights may be affected in the framework of a national referendum are unfounded. I deliberately abstained from commenting on this point because I expected the importer, who was absent from the Legal Committee, to state exactly what he meant so that the lawyers could help to refine this text if we agreed that it was really necessary. Rather, it is not the same as the word............................ that none of us would agree at first reading, but on the other hand, since it is not fundamental constitutional rights, I can hardly imagine that Bulgarian citizens would initiate a sufficient number of signatures to try to limit any important right, such as the right of associations or the right to health, or the right to work, or the right to recreation, or something else. Let us not underestimate the Bulgarian voters. Since they are smart enough to elect us in parliament, they must be smart enough to make decisions for us on topics they consider important enough. In this order of thinking and given that there is not enough clarity what exactly he wanted to put into his proposal, Georgi Kadiev, I personally will not support him, and I would like to say clearly that we should not have heard the importer making any conclusions on the subject, hardly that this is related to the upcoming referendum, which is related to the mandatory vote. I will repeat once again: I personally, I suppose, and our parliamentary group, but I will personally in any case support the holding of a referendum with one of the questions. So in that order of thought I will not support the proposal that Georgi Kadiev made.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u47	Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important topic and I think that we should limit ourselves in it by considering the individual issues that we will be discussing separately when the President's initiative is tabled. In addition, when we consider certain proposals, we need to see them, where necessary, in their entirety. I would have spoken without Mr. Kazak's invitation. I'll also take account of the matter he put forward. But the two proposals made by Mr. Kadiev, as I will not speak separately on the second, are actually in two opposite directions. In both life and politics, you must know where you are going, because in his first proposal he proposes a subject of limiting direct democracy, and in his second proposal, even in my opinion, too liberalizes the opportunities for respecting the results of the direct will of citizens. For me, this is a principle note and I also refer it to the other MPs: when considering the different proposals, see what the overall result of accepting or rejecting any of them will be. With regard to the first proposal, I think Mr. Kazak will accept a certain clarification in the version he made about this. 6. The most precise text can be formulated: "Restricting fundamental rights of Bulgarian citizens." Because the referendum can affect all kinds of rights. Who said that the referendum cannot be something that affects citizens' rights and obligations? Even without this point for me, the issue is clear, as fundamental rights are regulated in the chapter, which requires a Grand National Assembly if some of them are repealed or substantially restricted. But let's record what has already been said. I think this joint amendment can be put to the vote. A t. Seven is really unnecessary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u49	Do you make a proposal instead of those who are concerned about it to be restrictive?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u50	"Restrictive." I think Mr. Kazak is expressing because, once again, the word is too imprecise. Mr. Lazarov gave examples that to some extent rights can also be extended. The referendum will also affect these rights. One more note to finish the subject of rights. We are talking about fundamental rights of citizens and everywhere the Constitution refers to individual rights because in Bulgaria no concept of any collective rights is adopted either of the majority or of the minority. We can talk about some community interests, including minority interests, but rights are given to protect citizens. They can exercise them collectively, but this is too different from the concept of collective rights. For national security, I think it is unnecessary because such a wording limits too much the possibilities to formulate issues, including with regard to national security. I hope that it will be firmly rejected by the Members of the National Assembly. Last thing I'm done with. What the Commission proposes on the validity of the referendum, including one of the proposals, I think they are much more balanced. Therefore, I propose further in § 2a Mr. Kadiev's proposals under point. 1 and 2 to be voted separately from that. 3, because t. 1 and 2 concern easing the requirements for those who voted in local referendums, while for national referendums I think that only 75 thousand people who are easy to lower to the limits, or to reduce to 200,000 people who voted for the validity of the referendum, are slightly lower. I think our parliamentary group has acted reasonably and consistently. Even when the Law was adopted, we proposed as a condition for the validity of the national referendum at least 30% participation by those entitled to vote. Therefore, I think that we can now adhere approximately to these criteria, which account for both the development of direct democracy and the representativeness of the results of the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u51	- What's the line? Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you, Mr. Stoilov, for taking this issue into consideration, only that I want you to clarify your position and clearly, and to categorically confirm or deny what you have said, which I have understood as your thesis, namely that now clearly and categorically both the Constitution, and the law in force on the direct participation of citizens in the government and the local authorities exclude as an opportunity for a referendum to put issues limiting fundamental constitutional rights and fundamental rights of the Bulgarian citizens. I would like you to confirm clearly and categorically that, at the moment, the Constitution and the Act in force exclude the possibility of a national referendum to subject issues directly affecting or limiting fundamental constitutional rights. The answer to this question will depend really on the sincerity of your position and of your parliamentary group, something that Mrs Manolova has already touched on. Because you are all categorical about the fact that the Constitution and the Law exclude issues from the competence of the Grand National Assembly to be subjected to a referendum, while you are ready to support one of the questions of the President who directly violates this restriction. The issue of compulsory voting directly limits the constitutional right of Bulgarian citizens by replacing it with an obligation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u53	For the second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u54	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Stoilov! I'm taking a line because you've done a pretty detailed analysis of both hypotheses, including in relation to their internal contradictions. The question to you is this: why do we miss the introductory sentence of the two hypotheses? What does the introductory sentence Mr. Kadyev suggested? Mr. Kadiev suggests that the citizens, voters, may rule on the issue of impeachment of the President, and after proposing this, make the disguise with the two proposals that we are here wateringly analyzing and exploring. First and foremost, I would like to emphasise that the introductory formula, which aims to drop art. Art. 91a. 203, is absolutely unacceptable and, of course, absolutely unconstitutional. From now on, I say again, in my opinion, the civil rights disguise is basic, secondary or tertiary, just, how can I say, a disguise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u55	For the third line, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u56	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Stoilov! I agree with your thesis, but, in the end, because once again, there are suggestions as to whether constitutional rights are concerned, whether a bill that has been adopted will contradict the Constitution, it is ultimately the Constitutional Court that will rule, and this is practice. As for the question asked to you, if you see fundamental rights, in any matter in the referendum, if it is affected, if it is violated, then they will be put to discussion or adopted by the National Assembly or will be through the compulsory collection of petitions, but there are corrective mechanisms. This is the Constitutional Court in support of your thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u57	A hole, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u58	Mr. Lazarov, really, when there are disputes, they are resolved in these cases by the Constitutional Court, but when we adopt the laws, we should always be aware of the possible constitutional consequences. So I therefore put these and practical questions to make sure that if it comes to disputes subsequently, they will not affect the declaration of applicability of one or another of the legal provisions. Mr. Kirilov is right, I did not touch on this issue because I thought that she did not find support in the Chamber anyway. I am not responsible for Mr. Kadyev's proposals. He, if he could have precisely formulated them, had all these points given separately, because you are right that by giving this introductory text, he now distinguishes from other hypotheses. For this reason, its first proposal on this issue must be voted on securely. 2 separately because it does not relate to the other two proposals. So I agree with your thesis. And lastly on the subject that Mr. Kazak put up. I don't have a problem, Mr. Kazak, voting for t. 6 in my final editing. I hope that the fact that you have not touched on this point shows that you accept this revision. But don't make me go into the next discussion on the topics and issues that the President is putting. Personally I, and I think our parliamentary group, too, would make clear in most of the questions he proposes, because if the answer is given to these comparatively blanquetized questions, even if it is positive, it does not in practice have any binding consequences for the National Assembly. So these questions really need to be refined. What is my attitude to the mandatory vote, I will express it, and whether we should put a sign of equality between the right to choose and the compulsory exercise of a right or by calling it an obligation. This may seem to the general public a little veiled, but in constitutional theory these are discussed. So let us not now be strictly focused on the issues that have been submitted to Parliament. Some of them we'll probably have a common view of, other than that. But when we adopt the Law, I see that some of the depositors and the Commission are even too influenced by the upcoming referendum and have adapted the texts to do so, forgive me for the word a karaic in which I do not know what the end effect will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u59	To speak, Mr. Julian Angelov. After him Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! We from the Patriotic Front will not support Mr. Kadiev's amendment and will not support Mr. Kazak's spice. I repeat the spice, because here it smells like a common meal that they're trying to mix up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u61	You haven't had breakfast!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u62	My speech is provoked by something else, Madam President. I will go into a slight violation of the Rules of Procedure: it is nice to have a closer look at the House, so that the back of the room that asks for a reply can be noticed and given to it. Because I missed the opportunity to make...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u63	Mr. Angelov, there were no other hands on the third line than Mr. Lazarov. He's the only one...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u64	I'm talking about before. That is why my request is: take a look inside and into the hall, because I wanted to make lines for Mrs. Manolova and I didn't have the opportunity. I asked for a speech, and it would be good if there was no opportunity for a speech for a Member of the National Assembly and he wanted an immediate statement, although there were others recorded before him, to give him the opportunity to say what is related to the previous statement. I think it's the right thing to do. We're talking about correctness here, we're not talking about anything else. So what I wanted to share and finish is that Mrs. Manolova announced how BSP was almost the first to initiate a referendum on the new law. That's not true. The first to start a referendum on the new law were IMRO and SKAT TV against Turkey's EU membership and we collected 330 thousand signatures that matured in the Forty-first National Assembly. So when spoken there must be correctness and accuracy, Mrs. Manolova, and to be exact, and to respect each other! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u65	- What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u66	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u67	We'll wait for the lines then. Mr. Mitev for a line. For the second line, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Angelov! I disagree with your statement. I expected a more precise formulation of the position of the Patriotic Front for failing to support Mr. Kadiev's proposal. We consider it absolutely unacceptable, both the first part to be deleted from the ban list of issues on which a national referendum can be produced, the so-called impeachment procedure of the President, as well as the text relating to the Ombudsman's figure, including the notorious one. 2, concerning the rights of Bulgarian citizens, Mr. Kadiev has thus formulated in his proposal the point on which questions for a national referendum cannot be raised. I can't figure out where anyone's going to make a point that it's basic, let alone constitutional ones. The right of Bulgarian citizens to smoke in closed places means rights that are regulated in both the Constitution and other laws, such as the right to have permission to smoke in closed places or not, there is no point in giving other obvious examples. And under item T 7, a broad wording of this kind would exclude a priori from a very broad group of issues which do not fall within the current provision of art. 9, para. 2 of the issues on which a referendum can be produced. In this regard, I think it is absolutely unacceptable and the proposal of my colleague Kazak and the proposal of my colleague Stoilov, because they are not editorial, they change in practice the meaning put in by the proposer Mr. Kadiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u69	For the second line, Mrs. Manolova Is there a third line? Not yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u70	Honourable Members, Madam President, Mr. Angelov! In fact, your reply is a confirmation of my speech that the practice of implementing the Law on referendums shows that the thresholds must be removed, including the number of signatures required to hold a compulsory referendum.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u71	That's the next paragraph, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u72	That was Mr. Angelov's line. In fact, there is now an opportunity for the parliamentary committees and the plenary of the so-called citizens' initiative, for which the signatures are low enough. There, in practice, the meaning of the law is that a minimum of 50 signatures are needed to examine a proposal which is related to a given law, a change in law or another important topic for Bulgarian citizens. So in the part of your statement in which you insist that the number of signatures should be removed to make the National Assembly consider one question, I fully agree with you. It is simply that in this case you have not collected enough signatures for a mandatory referendum, and procedures in all other cases must be strictly followed by the National Assembly. Reference: In the previous parliament, all signatures, which contained more than 50 signatures and were in the legal order, were examined by the Committee on Civil Society, including those which were deposited in the previous National Assembly, again a reference: the petition against the monopolies.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u73	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I thank Mr. Mitev for saving time from the debate and making a line to explain the exact wording of the group. Mrs. Manolova, what I have said is not whether it is enough number or not, but we are talking about accuracy and correctness when political persons send messages from this tribune, because including the referendum that was organised for So when someone takes the sole credit for a referendum, it's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u75	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u76	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the DPS parliamentary group and by virtue of art. 61, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I request a recess of the meeting of 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u77	Fifteen-minute break. We'll continue at 10:20. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u78	I ask the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats. The time for interruption is up, there are statements being made. Mr. Dimitrov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u79	Madam President, honourable Members! I listened with attention to the speeches of various lawyers who were sliding along the surface, but did not touch on the main issue in the proposal of colleague Kadiev. When it comes to the text. supposed rights of Bulgarian citizens....................................................................................... The word "I'm concerned" means: it has something to do with it. In this wording, I do not think of any question that can be asked in a referendum. Is there a question that does not affect the rights of Bulgarian citizens? I would like to ask you here my fellow lawyers have taken the floor, to give me examples of any issue that does not affect human rights, civil rights, educational rights, health rights at all. The idea here of colleague Kadiev, unfortunately, may be unconsidered, but if it is adopted, it means no referendums. Each question to a small or large extent affects the rights of Bulgarian citizens. This, as one of the lawyers rightly said, is not just about constitutional rights, but about any kind of rights recorded in different laws. So we absolutely must vote against the proposal of colleague Kadiev, otherwise the law is blocked. Therefore, colleagues from the DPS want to pass this proposal so that they can completely and completely block the Law on referendums. What they really want is for there to be no referendums. Let us look at the proposals made by President Plevneliev. Each one of them concerns electoral rights, i.e. by the definition of colleague Kadiev none of them can be set. The second part of colleague Kadiev's proposal speaks of affecting national security. It is also very general, it also concerns a huge range of questions, it will also have a significant restrictive effect on possible questions to be asked. Colleagues, do we want direct democracy in Bulgaria? Do we want the voice of Bulgarian citizens to be heard? Do we want referendums in Bulgaria to match or not to elections? If we want, such texts cannot be accepted. I know that there are political parties that are panicked about referendums. We know what this party is, we know their panic scare, but that can't be a reason for the referendums to be blocked and stopped. That's what they offer, so it's nothing more, nothing less. If you vote today on this version or any other version, the text proposed by my colleague Kadiev that there can be no referendums on a subject that affects human rights, rights of Bulgarian citizens, that means I challenge you again, ask me one such question...................................................................... [[Heckling]] So I call on you, honourable Members, to reject these texts, if we want the voice of the people to be heard, to participate the Bulgarian citizens in direct consultations, to participate in the strategic decisions for Bulgaria and their vote to be taken into account at every stage of our country's development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u80	First line, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, let us not read the Law and the Proposals as the Devil the Gospel. [[(Noise and lines on the right. Revelations: ……]] You understand what I mean. Let's really concentrate on the true meaning of this proposal. I do not know if you have been in the Chamber so far and if you have heard the debates, but if you have not, let me tell you that I have proposed an editorial amendment in this text by proposing to replace the proposed text with the text... concerning fundamental constitutional rights................................ not law................................... You know where they are. You are not a lawyer, but the lawyers know this is in Chapter 2 of the Bulgarian Constitution. The colleague Yanaki Stoilov proposed an additional editorial amendment with which he proposed to replace the word "touching" with the word "limiting." We also support this editorial amendment to appease you. I mean, I really propose that we vote on a text that reads "Restricting fundamental constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens" to make it clear what this is about. We're not against referendums. On the contrary, we want the Bulgarian people to be asked about fundamental issues related to the government, but not on issues which are clearly and categorically defined, guaranteed in the Bulgarian Constitution in Chapter Two, as the main constitutional rights of the Bulgarian citizens. We want with the instrument of the referendum to be called into question also on the will of the majority of the rights which could easily be taken away if the majority decides that the rights that are guaranteed under international treaties, rights that are guaranteed under the Bulgarian Constitution. From this point of view, I hope you will accept this editorial amendment and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u82	Second line, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Dimitrov, you amaze me. I have lived for a long time with the idea that you are a representative of the liberal in the right part of this House, but today I learn with surprise that human rights, and in particular universal rights, are subject to debate. Is this your idea of direct democracy? Yeah, let's open the encyclopedia of Blackwell's political thought. A really very good work, a good almanac, issued in 1972. There is reflected what you expressed as a political thesis the majority ruled by the minority, the opinion prevails. But is this democracy nowadays, Mr. Dimitrov, or is it what Hoyt Yee, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State and Vice-President of the Commission Frans Timmermans say that democracy nowadays cannot be democracy if it is not liberal if it does not protect the rights of minorities as well? How would you feel if the Bulgarian Orthodox Church decided to initiate a referendum, God forbid, so that it should be the only one in this sector, in Christianity? [[Heckling]] On the way of Viktor Orban and Hungary, are we going to go, I wonder when we're going to change the laws and we're going to take away rights so that we can regulate a certain conjuncture at a certain point? Yes, there they change the Constitution every five minutes, just and only Victor Orban to strengthen himself in power, but I don't think this is the way. I do not think that putting existing rights to debate is the path of democracy and the development of democracy. On the contrary, enlargement of rights, guaranteeing most rights and strengthening them in laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u84	The line, Mr. Popov. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Your group had two lines, let's hear it from another parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you essentially made a comment on Mr. Kadiev's proposal in your speech. You are really right, in some ways, because for one of the issues concerning national security, one must first be answered: "What is it, National Security? " There are two laws that define this concept. Just yesterday, I do not see here the chairman of the Special Committee Mr. Lazarov adopted a common definition of what it is. Regarding the rights of Bulgarian citizens, should I understand that you agree with the proposal made by Yanaki Stoilov because you did not comment on it, namely, limiting the fundamental rights of Bulgarian citizens. The difference is quite substantial. Indeed, in Mr. Kadiev's very proposals, the subject is different, so I also support him to agree separately on these three such proposals from him. Please answer the question, do you actually support Mr. Stoilov's proposal, namely, limiting the fundamental rights of Bulgarian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u86	A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u87	Madam President, in all three lines, I have called on them to hear even one example question so that there is a question that does not limit in a referendum, does not affect fundamental rights. But I could not hear an example from the two statements of the DPS and from the statement of the BSP, so I understand that Mr. Kadiev's proposal will not be supported because we could not hear such an example. Mr. Anastasov from the DPS in his line uses the words "Universal Rights." There are none, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u88	There is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u89	Still, let me get this straight. But even if the text proposed by Mr Kazak is adopted, he is sufficiently restrictive in terms of possible referendums. He says that there should be no questions regarding texts that restrict constitutional rights. Why does Mr. Kazak say that? There's a very simple logic and it's this. The right to vote, Mr. Kazak will say, is a universal right. Any question on this topic.. no matter what the issue is, is restrictive. That's why he suggested it. That is why Mr. Kazak is proposing to us this article so that there can be no question, no inquiry to the Bulgarian citizens at all on the topic of Voting and voting, because he will say that this concerns a fundamental constitutional law. However, Mr. Kazak does not give his account, but he probably gives it to himself that this concerns both healthcare and education and a number of other areas where they can be seen as restrictive issues of constitutional rights and therefore will not be able to have such consultations with the people. Dear colleagues, this plane is very dangerous, a little smelly of censorship, that's where things are going. The intentions are supposed to be good, but in the end the result is censorship and is limiting, significantly limiting, possible issues. Therefore, I do not support either Mr. Kazak or colleague Yanaki Stoilov's proposal because the final result is important. The final result will be that the most important questions will not be able to be asked and we will have to ask Bulgarian citizens only on topics on which no one will be able to resist. That's how it turns out. Topics that aren't so important, it turns out. In the end, I would say the following: "Those who do not want referendums, these are BSP colleagues, forgive me, but the error is true, those who do not want a referendum, in fact say so "Let there be such ones, but they cannot in any form be interpreted even that they restrict constitutional rights so that they can make it up for nothing else, but in order for the most important questions, if someone goes to ask them at all, they claim that they cannot be asked. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u90	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u91	There's no personal explanation on the line. The big lawyers...!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u92	There's no personal explanation for a line, Mr. Kazak! He can't address you without mentioning the name of the replicating colleagues. How to individualize you? Mr. Mitev!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u93	Speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u94	They want procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u95	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I propose an end to this debate. The various political groups have been clearly expressed, we have heard enough opinions and everyone can vote on Mr. Kadiev's proposal and the main proposal of § 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u96	Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u97	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making a counter-proposal not to end the discussion. Why is she so important? For lowering the rates, please ask the Members of the National Assembly to distinguish between the lowering of the rates for... the lowering of the thresholds for the validity of a referendum............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u98	Mr. Mikov, this is in the next paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u99	Where does the question of fundamental rights arise? The question of the death penalty can come up very easily tomorrow, very easily the question of the European Union about membership can arise very easily, questions concerning fundamental rights can occur. That is why this is a sensitive issue here, in this discussion, because the thresholds are finally reduced for reality. When the thresholds for reality are reduced, this is not about direct democracy, but it is about the preparation of a direct blaming of representative democracy. The decisions of the elected National Assembly, the Grand National Assembly, which has arranged in the Constitution, fundamental or fundamental rights. That is why this discussion is archived and when as such it is rejected, shows either a misunderstanding where we are taking Bulgaria, or a lasting stubbornness to lead it to a destabilization. How can you stop discussing such a matter and with what motives? It's all clear, isn't it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u100	Yes!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u101	All right! If everything is clear, how does a petition for the death penalty and the right to life sound to you as a fundamental right? How does GERB sound to you? [[GERB lines.]] How will this sound to European representatives? The right to life and a petition for the death penalty, how does that sound? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And you want to stop the discussion!?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u102	I put to the vote the procedural motion for termination. [[Relations for procedure by DPS.]] I am obliged, immediately after the request of the procedural proposal and the opposite opinion, to declare a voting regime. We vote, colleagues, Mr. Mikov's proposal. Vote 139 MPs: 88, against 43, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Revoting wants Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am doing a re-voting procedure, addressing all the parliamentary groups. I hope you heard Mr. Mikov's argument. I hope you realize that the issue that is being discussed in this paragraph is extremely important for the future of democracy in Bulgaria, for the ways in which the instrument of direct democracy, which is called a reference word, will be used from here on through the new legal instrument that you are about to accept today. Debates on this issue must not and cannot be stopped, and in this way, it has been made without absolutely any arguments, we are simply going out and saying: Why? The debate was very constructive and reasoned. There are statements made by representatives of all parliamentary groups, obviously there is a desire to hear more opinions. Therefore, do not mute or stop the debate.. Let it continue because the truth is born in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u104	Revoting, coworkers! [[Replys from DPS: "Procedure, procedure! "]] Got it. Then I'll give you a procedure to specify who will speak, three or four raise your hands, I don't know who to give the floor to first. 140 MPs voted: 89, against 46, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Mr. Hamid's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Member of the Commission. - Madam President, there has already been a systematic violation, which I hope you will pay attention to when someone asks for a re-vote procedure, comes out and explains the reasons that we have already heard during the debate. I ask you to make remarks to colleagues such as Mr. Kazak, who are taking long and lavishly away from the valuable time of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u106	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u107	Colleagues, I will very much disappoint you, but I will not allow Mr. Kazak's personal explanation. [[Applause from GERB]] Because it's a clear abuse of right. [[Relations from BSP LB and DPS.]] Do you want the word in the manner of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u108	I want the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u109	Mrs. Ahmedova wants the floor. You want a statement? After the vote, we are in voting mode because we have ended the debate. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, take your seats. We're voting mode. [[Noise and lines from the BBC. Details between the President Tsetska Tsacheva and the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova.]] Colleagues, in view of the upcoming vote, let us hear what the procedure will be. I was told: "In view of the upcoming vote. " I have to let this procedure be made out of the microphone. I don't know what he'll ask for.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u110	Colleagues, take it easy! I refer to the Rules of Procedure as I am entitled to a procedure before a vote. My procedure is for a roll call check, because we think the Law is very important and we want to know who are in the Chamber and who will vote. [[BDZ calls.]] This is not subject to any call from the auditorium or any comment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u111	Don't fight!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u112	Once there is eligibility in the Rules for requesting such a procedure, I will do so and take advantage of my rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u113	A reverse opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Since it is good for colleagues to read the Rules as well, you are also entitled to do a roll call check through the electronic voting system, so I suggest that the check be via the electronic system. She's named again. [[Replications from the National Representative Mariana Georgieva. The DPS Parliamentary Group is leaving the Chamber. The majority of the parliamentary group of BSP LB also leaves the plenary.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u115	Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - absent Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valentin Stefanov Vasilev - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - absent Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - absent Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - absent Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - absent Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - absent Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - absent Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - here Ianko Alexandrov Iankov - absent Additional entry representatives: Antony Trenchev, Ivan Kirilov Ivanov, Grozdan Karadzhov, Boyka Marinska, Ivan Slavov, Vasil Antonov, Valentin Pavlov, Plamen Tachev, Ferihan Ahmedova and Borislav Velikov. Ten people came in extra. One hundred twenty-five people present, there's a quorum. [[Applause.]] Colleagues, what are you clapping at, with legislative time being eaten by the inspection anyway, and we will move on to control. There are two minutes when they're gonna do...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u116	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u117	I put to the vote Mr. Kazak's proposal for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u118	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u119	Take your seat. [[Radio, noise and lines.]] Procedure for separate voting Mr. Kadiev's proposals. Please vote. They voted 145 MPs: 35 against 90, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mrs. Manolova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u120	Honourable Members, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I think that in the parliamentary hall, amongst all other feelings, sentiments, opinions, causes must also have a feeling called correctness. [[Arrival in GERB.]] He is absolutely right that Mr. Kazak should ask for a separate vote because he has different views on the various points. [[Relations from the National Representative Krasimir Velchev.]] There is no way the procedure for which he insists will pass anyway if you vote against. Give him the opportunity for what he pleaded from the parliamentary tribune. [[a line from the National Representative Krasimir Velchev]] to be voted separately. I have at the moment the moral grounds to ask, not to insist, to ask for this, because you see that very duly with Mr. Yanaki Stoilov we remained in plenary to secure the quorum [[crowd cheering and lines in GERB]] so that the control can then be carried out. I think that correctness, when it manifests itself on one side, should have it on the other side, and let each one, in his way of voting, express his attitude in the controversial text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u121	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 152 MPs: 43, against 82, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Procedure, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u122	Mrs. President, Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament from all parliamentary groups, from Coalition left Bulgaria, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, from the Political Party [[Elevator bell dings]] , colleagues from the Patriotic Front, colleagues from the Reformation Block and Mr. Ramadan Atalay!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u123	What about non-members in parliamentary groups? Aren't you going to address them as well?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u124	Madam President, I would like to remind you that we are already in the time of parliamentary control and we have been working illegally for three minutes, but my procedural proposal is as follows. As it is coming, it should not be forthcoming, but you will certainly give the opportunity to vote on a very important text, I am proposing to include the cameras of BNT and direct broadcast on BNR of the vote itself and of the debate. Please put my procedure to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u125	Back-up opinion, here you go. [[Radio and applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Hamid, I understand your desire for more openness, but, frankly, I would be ashamed here to trample on a universal Charter of Human Rights and other important international documents. And, frankly, Mr. Hamid, it's 11:04 p.m., the cameras were supposed to work because parliamentary control should have already started. So your offer is pointless.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u127	I put to the vote the procedural proposal made for the direct broadcast of the vote on this bill, made by Mr Hamid. Please vote. They voted 146 MPs: 38, against 72, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. [[DPS lines.]] Revoting Mr. Hamid. [[Arrival in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u128	Mr. Stoilov, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Haytov, Vice-President of the National Assembly [[GERB noise and lines]] Mr. Glavchev, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Manolova, Mr. Chavdar Georgiev [[Clattering on banks, noise and lines from GERB]] , honourable colleagues... May I have some order in the Chamber, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u129	When you surpassed all possible parliamentary tricks in this room, that's the reaction, Mr. Hamid. Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u130	Madam President, you measure with double archin, because when Mr. Kazak allows himself here to stretch locums all day long and I want you to make a remark to him, you don't make a remark to him, and you make a remark to me. I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u131	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 146 MPs: 43, against 75, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Kadiev. The Commission does not support the proposal. [[DPS lines.]] Editors would have been there if there were a separate vote. [[DPS lines.]] My colleagues are right. Cancel the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u132	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u133	The first proposal at the time is from Mr. Kazak, who proposes in point. 6 of Mr. Kadiev's proposal, after those who are concerned, to add the rights of Bulgarian citizens. We vote on Mr. Chetin Kazak's proposal. They voted 147 MPs: 42, against 62, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's proposal in point. 6 instead of.......................................................................................................... We vote on Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's proposal. They voted 149 MPs: 43, against 56, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u134	Thank you, Madam President. I'm doing a re-voting procedure because your announcement wasn't correct. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov also suggested that, in addition to the restrictions, add the In other words, his proposal, correctly re-created, is limiting the fundamental rights of Bulgarian citizens. So that's what you have to put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u135	I would like to reconsider to consider Mr. Stoilov's consent to the proposal of Mr. Kazak, that is correct, Mr. Kazak, and yours is to be the front to be the limiting basics of Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. Vote 151 MPs: 50, against 51, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the proposal of MP Georgi Kadiev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 153 MPs: 24, against 85, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 2. Vote 151 MPs: 126, against 20, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. [[Private applause.]] PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 26 June to 2 July 2015: A question was received from the MPs Mihail Mikov and Cornelia Ninova to Ivaylo Kalfin "Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy, concerning the demographic perspective in front of the country." The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 10 July 2015. There has been a question by the National Representative Dimitar Boychev to Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, concerning the policy of the Ministry of Health about the activities carried out in private institutions. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 10 July 2015. Written answers to service: - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Stefani Mihailova; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on two issues by the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Borislav Iglev; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to two questions from the National Representative Hristian Mitev; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Petrov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - by the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Maya Manolova; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - from the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Dubov; - from the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev to a question from the National Representative Mariana Boyadjieva; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Grozdan Karadjov. Parliamentary control today starts with the answers of Rumyana Bachvarova "Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister." The first will develop its question to her by the people representative Dragomir Stoynev on the closure of the O.R. unit at Topolovgrad Police District.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u136	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, my question to you is: Is the closure of an operational duty unit at the Police District Department of Topolovgrad, and what are the reasons for this if you really intend to lead this policy? Before you answer, I will only say that Topolovgrad District, covers, besides the city, 20 more villages, totaling about 11 thousand. population. The border with the Republic of Turkey is a prerequisite for illegal human trafficking. Topolovgrad is located between two border crossing points and important road arteries pass through it to the interior of the country. Staff members of the Operational duty department currently have clearly defined functions and tasks. You know, as a minister, that they perform: patrol work; road control; convoy activity; they have a function to accept and store correspondence at an off-duty time, including documents containing classified information; they also have direct tasks to receive citizens and support victims of crime. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, my request is that you tell me if you have such intentions, or if you strongly deny them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u137	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u138	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Stoynev, at the moment there is a Commission formed which prepares a security audit, analysis and proposals for reorganization of the work in the units of operational duty in Topolovgrad. There are such ones everywhere in Haskovo region, as well as throughout the country. This is by order of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior and order of the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Haskovo. Upon completion of the Commission's work, and in accordance with its opinion, it will be decided whether changes to the organisation of the operational duty units are appropriate. I note that it is only about the operational duty units, not the whole structure. The aim of this analysis is to look for opportunities to improve the organisation of the work of specific units, corruption and optimization where possible and where this is necessary. This reorganization is also part of the measures planned by us to improve the work in the fight against conventional crime and its aim is to see what are the possibilities for redirecting the maximum number of forces and means of patrol posting, more intensive police presence, especially in small towns, as well as an increase in the number of employees who will work to solve crimes under criminal police. In the case you are asking, I confirm that it is not a matter of cutting staff from duty units, but of a potential possibility for changes in regional governance so that employees who are eventually released are reassigned as operational assistants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. Mr. Stoinev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u140	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I cannot be satisfied with your response. After all, I understand that you are a little softer at the moment, if you can say so, because you are also conducting a pension reform, which is by no means supported by the trade unions, but what you have said is quite disturbing. You, de facto, one country, will release people, then you will reassign them, it remains and remain the people on the street, but in the end, when in these small settlements where domestic crime is revived again, where there is an increasingly growing immigration pressure where, unfortunately, we also see dangerous opposition between Roma and Bulgarians, you take some such action, I personally consider it entirely inappropriate. People there really live in stress. They do not know exactly what requires such changes to be made. Let us not forget that if this happens, of course, the communication with Elhovo, with Svilengrad will be completely disrupted. You yourself know that the Harmanli District Department and Svilengrad District Department is approximately 75 kilometers from Topolovgrad. This will in no way improve the safety of people. In the end, at least this is my opinion, of course, you are a minister, perhaps you should first know that this is not a budget office. So the money isn't the lead. After all, the important thing is to ensure the security and calmness of Bulgarian citizens. If you are making these changes only and only to save money without guaranteeing people safety without helping them in their daily lives, I believe that you are going in a completely wrong direction, but in the end the decision is yours and all Bulgarian citizens need to know that what you have done is not really supported by the ordinary employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u141	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u142	Dear Mr. Stoinev, I'm afraid you misunderstood me or didn't hear me well enough. We're talking about reorganising the operation in the operational units. It is about our goal that as many employees as possible be outside the police station building and be in place in small towns, especially where they can be much more effective in combating criminal crime and protecting the security of citizens. You don't understand, it's not about money in any way. It is about such reorganization of the state of the Ministry of Interior and the activities of the Ministry of Interior, so that we have more employees among the citizens, to have more employees outside so that we can better perform the functions. This is very important because we, on the one hand, have a high number, and on the other hand we have a shortage of officers with police powers. That is the goal, and I think the effect we want to achieve is exactly what you are talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u143	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on administrative reform in the Ministry of Interior. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for the presentation of the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u144	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! This issue is related to the so-called administrative reform to be carried out at the Ministry of Interior. You're almost five months and you're more of an Home Secretary. When you were appointed to this responsible position, you stated that you would continue the administrative reform initiated by your predecessor in the Ministry, whose peak were these serious changes in the Ministry of Interior Act. My question is: what is your view of the so-called "reform in the Ministry of Interior" and what stage is it at the moment? Does she even have one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u146	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, three and a half months I am Minister of the Ministry of Interior. In the beginning, I also announced in every one of these days that I am in this position, I am working on the continuation of the reform strategy for the Ministry of Interior............ because I share the objectives of these activities. This is to ensure the better work of the institution in accordance with the requirements of the real situation, of society and, of course, with the optimization of functions and activities, which is also related to the need for changes in optimization of the way budget funds are spent in the Ministry. With the adopted texts in the Ministry of Interior Act on February 24th, this is, I think, 20 days before my inauguration, a number of structural changes were undertaken aimed at better functioning of the system. The General Directorate of the Criminal Police and the General Directorate of the Security Office of a General Directorate of the National Police are united. You've completed this process, in my opinion, very successfully. The number of directorates and the respective management levels is reduced by paying attention to the number of directorates and management levels, rather than numbers, to the assessment that they were deliberately bloated during the previous management. A reduction and optimization of around 340 states is realized. The return of the Directorate-General for Organized Crime to the Ministry of Interior is extremely important for the security of society. We think that's where she belongs. This was also a necessary change as a result of a previous action, which proved ineffective with its move to the SANS. An essential part of the reform of the Ministry of Interior is related to the status of civil servants, which is already defined by two laws................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The state of the administrative units includes 3543 posts to be held by employees who will work within the meaning of the provisions of the Law on the Civil Service. At present, a permanent Commission with the subject of activity is in operation. 37 of the Ministry of Interior Act and their states. The Commission shall examine proposals from the structures relating to changes, the announcement of competitions, and the possibility for managers to conclude employment contracts with persons working in the employment relationship. I told you about the Structural and Functional Reform Programme. It has a prospect of 2015 - 2017 and has two main sections. The first one is an organization for the implementation of the reforms and includes the following measures: what we talked about, differentiation in the state service in the Ministry of Interior; optimization of the number of administrative units up to 15% within the overall number of the Ministry of Interior; preparation of guidelines for the allocation of established budgets; and development of a model for categorisation of territorial police structures. In the second section are structural and functional reforms. Measures related to activities to optimize the structures of the Ministry of Interior, the Fire Department, DGBOP, the National Police and units with duplicate functions are included. Finally, I can assure you that all the measures for administrative reform are aimed at the results that I have mentioned, but the main focus that we follow in each measure is functional optimization, and not the self-sustainment of the state, on the contrary, we are trying to see how to reposition one or another structure and optimize the staff so that better conditions can be worked for the employees as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u148	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! What you told us was told at the beginning when you started. It does not fully answer the question I asked, and I will now explain why. At a meeting with trade union representatives from the Ministry of Interior, they expressed their concern that the reform has stalled and to a large extent damages the regular staff of the Ministry of Interior. They are worried that what will be done and continued to be done will be to the detriment of those who are on the street, not those who are in the Ministry. Not to say the word they're called by the regulars. One of the reasons why they are on strike right now and have requests is precisely the delay in reform, because they have some serious expectations and more rapid progress to be made in favour of precisely those who actually do the work. I can't say I'm satisfied with that answer. I expected from you something concrete that can actually be presented to the numerical composition that works on the street, and to reduce the tension it currently has. There's obviously some kind of dialogue there, but I don't know how it's gonna end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u149	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u150	Dear Mr. Ivanov, a few details. Police unions don't strike. According to the permission they were given, the protest was for June 24, 2015. After that date we started talking to them. The opinion you have expressed, I have not heard of it, that the trade unions are worried that the reform is stuck because they are very well informed and know how all the processes are going. In addition, regarding my answer to Mr. Stoinev's previous question, the reorganization of the work in the operational duty units may be something that bothers them because a large part of their leaders work in these parts, but this is precisely the position I have not discussed with them on the occasion of the stalling. If they've told you something that's different from what they're saying to us, it stays with them. I can assure you that all possibilities for optimizing the work in the Ministry of Interior are being discussed and will be implemented so that we can really have a modern working structure that will satisfy its employees.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. The next question is from the MP Slavcho Atanasov about the systemic problems of the residents of the Plovdiv neighborhoods. "Todor Kableshkov" and "Panayot Volov" with the Roma population from the neighboring neighborhood. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! A group of citizens organized in the Initiative Committee and living in the districts of Todor Kableshkov and Panayot Volov came to my reception in Plovdiv. These regions border on Plovdiv neighborhoods with mixed population and the life of the Bulgarians there, in their own words, is hell. People are subjected to continuous attacks and robberies, breaking and entering their homes are everyday, Roma attacks on the young Bulgarian children are done even for fun, and the sound harassment of weddings and celebrations in the open is continuous. In the regions dominated fear and violence, the main source of which are the Roma living there. The people of the Initiative Committee have exposed to me numerous cases of attacks, robberies, conflict situations in the area and have failed to prevent tensions and incidents. The municipal government has abdicated completely and does not even want to get acquainted with the problems of the people of the two neighborhoods. A week before the riots broke out in the Sofia district of Orlandovtsi, the spark flew to Plovdiv as well. People were adamant that they were not against gypsies, but against intruders, but did not hide that they felt completely abandoned by the state. They can no longer tolerate harassment and disorder. I remind you, Madam Minister, that in Plovdiv is located the largest ghetto not only in Bulgaria, which number 60 thousand people - it is about Stolipinovo, there are three more mixed neighborhoods in our town. I ask you the following questions: First, is there a Third Regional Police Department in Plovdiv with permanent patrols in the Plovdiv districts of Todor Kableshkov, Panayot Volov and Sheker Mahala? Secondly, in relation to the tensions in these neighborhoods, does the RDVR provide for the city of Plovdiv, and in particular the 3rd police station, to increase police presence in this area of the city? Thirdly, was there a meeting between the head of the RDVR or the head of the 3rd Police Department... the city of Plovdiv, with the Roma leaders of Sheker Mahala. and representatives of the Bulgarian population in this area in order to calm down the tense situation? Fourth, is it envisaged to build a strategy by the Plovdiv police to prevent a possible conflict between the Roma and the Bulgarian population? I also apply to the questioning a petition with the complaint of the submitted problems of nearly 300 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u153	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u154	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atanasov, one clarification in the beginning [[(Reply from the National Representative Slavcho Atanasov:]] On your first question, perhaps at the beginning it is good to specify something else. Two days ago I had a hearing in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and there I presented a map which was made as a result of the analysis of our employees, about the criminogenic situation in the country, especially in the areas where there is a compact Roma population. We are aware of the general picture where the level of criminogenicity is increased, where it is slightly lower, which enables us to monitor the situation fully and take common measures so that we can neutralize and ensure some preventive action. One of them has been since yesterday there is a solution which, I hope, will be realized today or on Monday, with my order to be sent to the municipal management draft regulation. If they decide to accept it, it will enable them to impose measures and other noise standards in settlements. Such a regulation has very successfully worked in the Burgas region, led to overcoming the tensions. I very much hope, if, of course, the municipal authorities accept it everywhere, that it has an effect on the overall situation. On your particular question. A third regional management of the Ministry of Interior in Plovdiv organizes daily deployment of forces and funds from patrol and post activities as required by 24-hour police presence in these areas. This is an approach that we use wherever there is a critical situation. There are regular patrols on site. In addition to uniformed officers, Criminal Police officers are present. This is for the benefit of citizens' security and for prevention purposes. The third district management uses a single video surveillance system. You must know about the territory of the region of North, which includes the districts of Todor Kableshkov and Panayot Volov. I've been briefed. I know that the integrated video surveillance system in Plovdiv is starting. I hope that by the end of the year the main part of it will be completed, and next year. On your second question, there are no reports of interethnic intolerance in the two districts. The analysis of the management of the Third Regional Management defines as a low level of risk of committing a crime. However, if this changes, it is ready to respond immediately and to use appropriate means. On your third question, the situation in the area could not be defined as tense and there was no need for peace. However, a number of meetings have been held between the head of the Third Regional Government, Roma leaders from the neighborhood and representatives of the Bulgarian population, which, in my opinion, can be applied elsewhere. The last meetings are on 22 and 23 June and with representatives of the Initiative Committee, whose signature you are quoting. Problems related to disorder of public order and the Ordinance of the Municipality of Plovdiv on the territory of Roma neighborhoods are discussed. The meeting on 23 July was initiated by the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Plovdiv, and the deputy mayor of the region North with representatives of the Roma and Turkish community. The subject of discussion is the control of compliance with the regulations of the Municipal Council. This isn't about interethnic tension. On your last question, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior are fully involved in public order security, ensuring the safety and security of citizens living not only in these mixed areas, but also in the rest of the city. We appreciate the extremely special situation in Plovdiv. The numbers of those living in these areas are extremely high. According to information from colleagues there is a tendency of decline, of decreasing crime. Therefore, Plovdiv is not in regions with the highest degree of criminogenicity. We haven't had any robberies registered lately. The police have assisted the municipal administration in 320 cases in carrying out checks to comply with municipal norms in the region of North. The situation is monitored daily and specific events are planned as well as elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. Here's a line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u156	Dear Minister, dear Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of the National Assembly! I'll start by thanking you, Madam Secretary. Yesterday, I met with a member of the Initiative Committee. I want to tell you that since the signal was sent to me a few weeks ago, measures have been taken immediately. The situation is calmed down. People are relatively pleased, but since they realized that I would have a question for you, express their desire to continue this in the future, not just an episode measure. Things have really been improved since you and the RDVR authorities were raised. I would like to make a request to you: use your authority, which I am sure you have it to the current mayor of Plovdiv - Mr. Totev, because he refuses to meet with these communities of Roma and Bulgarian origin. I will just mention, do not think of it as a kind of beating in the chest and bragging, but at the time when such tensions were occurring, I have always met both the Roma leaders and the representatives of the Bulgarian population, which lives near these neighborhoods. Once again, I call on you: use your authority, after all, the mayor to step out of his office and go to these leaders for a personal meeting with them. I don't think it's enough just for the head of the RDVR to meet with both sides of Plovdiv and the head of the Third District Police Department. That's why the city has a mayor, as well as a district mayor. One of these people's discontent is that they are refused to be heard by the administration of Plovdiv, which is absurd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u157	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Mrs. Buchvarov, will you take advantage of the right to the back? No. We move on to the next issue by the MP Maya Manolova, as well as by the MPs Kiril Dobrev and Atanas Zafirov, regarding the demands of the employees of the Ministry of Interior since June 2015. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u158	Dear Minister, the protests of the employees of the Ministry of Interior have been going on for nearly a month now. They stand across the street from a tent, people pass by, sign, support them, and no attention from the Ministry of Interior. However, the problems they pose during the meeting we made last week are quite serious. I think the system's almost at the bottom. I'm only going to touch a few of them. First, new retirement rules. I understand the administrative reform has stalled. I mean, to date, bagkeepers win. What pension reform can you talk about when you are not ready with the administrative, where there should be a clear differentiation of the category of work and the form of payment. In my generation, Mrs. Bachvarova, during the transition, you changed his retirement age four times. I don't understand why it is your stubbornness to impose a moratorium for three years. Secondly, accounting for working hours and working conditions. We all know the tense situation both at the border and ethnic conflicts. By law, the employees of the Ministry of Interior are entitled to 70 hours overtime, which is paid. But what do we do with those who have nearly 250 hours?! We don't pay them, we don't have the opportunity to give them the right to refuse it. According to your data, it's already 30 million. I don't know why you shouldn't move on to a lasting solution to the problem by assigning new employees, especially to Border Patrol. I just don't want to talk about the outfit. I was stopped the other day by a patrol with three people, and they had four different types of uniforms. I don't know what's official. In this context of thinking, my question is: what is the attitude of the Ministry of Interior's management to the specific demands of the employees, and what measures will you take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u159	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u160	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Dobrev! I see it's from Mrs. Manolova and Mr. Zafirov. I'm addressing them. As far as I know, permission to protest the unions is from the 24th. I don't know why the tent is standing outside. After the 24th, we have a conversation with them. I can assure you that from the first day I am a minister, dialogue is a top priority. Such dialogue has never been denied. The protests of the police syndicates are not about a denied dialogue. The dialogue continued, we did it for a few hours and then they went out to protest. This is their decision which I would not like and should not comment on. On the occasion of their requests, I think that, especially at the last conversation, I had the opportunity to say it several times. Some of them have already been resolved and others are in the process of decision. I'll give you an example. Regarding uniforms, one of the first things that happened in connection with some budget restrictions was a decree of the Council of Ministers for 5.5 million, which were allocated to clothes. They're already giving out. It was a period that had to pass between the allocation of funds and the giving of uniforms. That is, the matter was settled legally, even when we held the talks. With regard to pension reform demands. You are a MP and you know who is the importer of this bill. The Ministry of Interior does not make a pension reform. Regarding the pension reform, the position of the trade unions was presented by me and protected by me to Mr. Kalfin the team that made this bill, after which the common position and decision is some of their demands not to be adopted. On my own initiative and invitation, I called them and told them that this could not happen because it was a very wide-ranging reform bill that balances the interests of all interested citizens. Where no solution could be found, we proposed additional measures - Mr. Kalfin made this effort - which practically put them in much better positions - in the sense that they can get all the benefits, regardless of whether at the time of retirement the employee works at the Ministry of Interior. That means preserving rights in time they've never had before. And they themselves said at the beginning of our conversation that it remains the only request to extend the scope of the group that will benefit from the preferences for the grace period of three years. This was at a time when the bill had already been submitted to parliament. I asked them to address the MPs even to assist them in organizing the meeting. I understand that they have met with your parliamentary group without our help, which is normally good, unless there is a gap in information and position that concerns me personally a little. I'm a man who takes his word for it no matter who I say it to, and I don't know how to deal with people who have such differences. With regard to the situation around the border, staffing is an expensive measure and is not good for our employees, but this is the only opportunity we have at the moment. There are competitions for border cops and policemen. When I arrived, 100 were announced, with my order it became 200. I have said this several times in this House, thanks to my efforts, we have arranged with the Academy to make accelerated training programmes for these employees so that they can pass the minimum period of three months and then have forms for further training. The most important measure, which I hope will have the greatest effect, is the construction of the facility along the border, which is not just the technical construction of a wall, but the construction of roads along it. The operational plan we're starting to work on is literally any minute now, I think the start of the first construction is the 10th or 12th. It is divided that the construction of the fence and the roads do not go parallel, but synchronously, so that we can facilitate our work. The measures you are talking about and which the employees have insisted on have been explained to them that there is no automatic action, as anyone can imagine. It's about a few months. We are closing the competitions themselves and they know it very well. Very good! If they communicate with employees, with their members, they need to know what and how it happens. Right now, we've reduced the posted by 50%. Basically, we have the means provided. We have proposed a social package for posted people, which is in addition to what we have done, an opportunity for preventive reviews, an additional opportunity to use the Home Office's rest facilities so that they can be better rehabilitated, together with members of their families, that is to compensate for the period in which they have not been given. I think I've answered all the questions. There is currently a working discussion with the trade unions, within which all these requests are clarified again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. The line, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u162	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, you are obviously not aware of the moods of the employees in the Ministry of Interior and, unfortunately, you obviously do not really know their problems. At the very least, there is a new tension at the moment, related to the fact that you are not fulfilling the commitments made, namely to create two working groups on the two rounds of the most important issues for the employees, the situation and the situation of the Bulgarian-Turkish border, and the Regulation for reporting and allocation of working time. These are the two groups of the most important issues on which you do nothing, so there will be protests again. Listening to you and your colleagues in the Chamber, we were really wondering: when you are not aware of the problems of the employees, who is actually in charge of the Ministry of Interior? Is there a pilot on the Home Office plane, or is it just the flight attendant? Because your team you've been counting on so far, I'd say it is, to put it mildly, not very competent and adequate. I refer to the Regulation No 592 in question for reporting and allocation of working hours. It was promulgated on 2 June, entered into force on 1 April and, notice, honourable MPs, this is the only institution where employees work their holidays. If you have 10 days off this month, you're working on it next month. This is really absolutely insane! I suggest you and I think it suits you to go out with you to the protest tent. There are indeed extremely valuable, conscientious employees who are fond of the Ministry of Interior. From their recreating problems, you, as a sociologist, can really do a deep analysis of sociology using them as a focus group because you really are aware of the problems. If you do not want, you can see the reconstruction of the conditions on the Bulgarian-Turkish border. They made her one-on-one. If you or the task force you didn't create, you have no way to the border soon, you can see what's going on out there. If you refuse to go with me, I've been asked by the employees to hand over their 22 requests to you here. [[shows them]] that you're not working on yet. That's two books. [[shows them]] for the professional stress your employees are under. I think that as a good leader you should know them and their problems; hear their opinions so that you can adequately manage them. [[Passing to Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova the two books.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Madame Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for the duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u164	Dear Mrs. Manolova, I don't think you're honored to give light and yellow definitions. The Ministry of Interior has a very clear leadership. I think it's pretty strong right now! Everything you said at the moment shows that you have not synchronized your support points with the group of protesters who has contacts with you. I noticed the same ones when you were talking to them and what you're saying right now. The two working groups were created this week and are working. There are proposals even legislative, I don't know why they didn't tell you. Maybe your information is older. I wouldn't go out with you, I refuse to go out with you in front of you just because we're on the opposite side of the people who are trying to solve the issues. I don't know where you're so well informed. If this is circumstantial, I think it's incomparable to the personal impressions that I have even in the last hundred days at the Ministry of Interior. My main concern as Minister of the Interior is really that the employees work well and that it does not cause them any problems. It's very difficult for stress! There are a series of professional groups, especially in the Ministry of Interior, and I am expressing my understanding on this occasion. The more political this protest is, I think the less problems will be solved. In the Ministry of Interior Act, in the part of the trade union, it is written that the functions of the trade unions in the Ministry of Interior are advisory and ancillary. From now on, crossing the line of determination and political qualifications, I think this regulation is being violated, which also hinders the work of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u165	Thank you, Vice Prime Minister and Minister for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions of Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues, which will answer a question from the National Representative Angel Naydenov about the policy and actions of the government against Bulgarian citizens living in Ukraine. Here you are, Mr. Naydenov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u166	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Kuneva, I will not hide that reason to ask the question was a meeting of the Committee on the Politics for Bulgarians abroad and the hearing of Mr. Anton Kisse. You know him well enough, MP in the Ukrainian Parliament and President of the Association of Bulgarians in Ukraine. Mr. Kisse in a rather large conversation and exhibition outlined one, in my opinion, a very sad picture. A sad picture of how the administration deals with the problems of people of Bulgarian ethnic origin, in the case of people living in Ukraine, and especially those of them who, as a result of the conflict, combat actions and the stress situation they are in, have chosen to come to Bulgaria. Generally speaking, the characteristic of at least my impression is either for the full paralysis of this part of the administration dealing with the problems of citizenship, with regard to residence, or for insanity. Either way, this is an unacceptable attitude. Let me remind you that there was a series of statements by the Prime Minister, probably on behalf of the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian state, ready to accept each of the citizens of Bulgarian ethnic origin living in Ukraine, to be accepted in Bulgaria. The second part of these statements on the preparation and delivery of humanitarian aid. Generally speaking, the problems Mr. Kisse was talking about outline three groups of these problems. The first group is related to the people who chose to come to Bulgaria. True, they are still few, but apparently they face a series of unsolvable, at least from their point of view, problems at this point in time. Secondly, with regard to the application of legislation, including them. This is about the right to permanent residence, the right to work and, accordingly, the acquisition of citizenship. Of course, the third group of problems is linked to humanitarian aid, which at least we have not heard within the Commission at the moment, and Parliament, please correct me if I am mistaken, be prepared and accordingly sent. My question, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, in this regard is: what are the decisions and what are the actions taken by the government as an expression of this targeted policy towards Bulgarians or citizens of ethnic origin living in Ukraine and, in particular, those who choose to come to Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u167	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. Madame Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Naydenov, yes, we must give a detailed answer to your questions after we had, in my opinion, a good start more than a month ago. That's what's been going on ever since. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs constantly monitors all issues concerning Ukrainian citizens of Bulgarian origin and takes possible actions to protect them, taking into account international norms and diplomatic practice. For Bulgaria, let us say it again in this Chamber, Ukraine is an important partner and friendly country, which is determined by geographical, cultural, historical and religious proximity between our peoples. Over 200 thousand Bulgarian community in Ukraine is considered as a bridge of friendship and cooperation with Ukraine. We appreciate the Ukrainian Government's policy regarding the study of Bulgarian language in Ukraine and, regardless of the complex period and conflicts in the eastern regions, Ukraine continues to conduct a policy for the protection of minority rights and for the study of mother tongue, including Bulgarian. We aim to work together with the Ukrainian state to solve the problems of the Bulgarian minority. It is very important for us to adopt a balanced law on state language policy and minority languages to take account of their rights. We closely monitor the information about the sixth wave of mobilisation in Ukraine. We expect that it will have no electoral character and will proceed in compliance with the principle of proportionality with the various national minorities. Bulgaria will oppose all attempts to restrict the rights of the Bulgarian community on an ethnic basis, as well as attempts by extreme nationalist organizations in Ukraine to use our compatriots as a reason to promote influence and interests of third countries. Next week, "July 5-6," Minister of Foreign Affairs Mitov will visit Odessa and Bolgrad. There he will talk with his Ukrainian counterpart Pablo Klinkin and will meet with the presidents of the Bulgarian community. When visiting school, Georghi Sava Rakovski in Bolgrad will then be equipped and computer hall with 11 computers. The project is worth 8 thousand. 266 euros and aims to stimulate the modernisation of the learning process. The results of the implementation of the project are financed under the Bulgarian official development aid, will be presented to representatives of state institutions and the community of Bessarab Bulgarians in the Odessa region. On the issues of the conditions for admission in Bulgaria of people of Bulgarian origin wishing to live in the country and to move from the area of military action in Ukraine, in relation to the complexity of the situation in Ukraine in February this year, the conditions for issuing visas for Ukrainian citizens of Bulgarian origin have been introduced. The possibility of free visas is envisaged, depending on the case. At the third meeting of the Coordination Centre in relation to the Bulgarians in Ukraine, about the creation of which I reported to you a month ago, there were discussed opportunities for short-stay visas of Bulgarians in the regions of Ukraine affected by military action to be extended. A proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for amending the Law on Foreigners was also discussed in order to allow permanent residence status in Bulgaria on the basis of a short-stay visa issued for foreigners of Bulgarian origin. The aim is to remove the need for foreign nationals of Bulgarian origin to leave the country in order to obtain a long-stay visa. It's about humanitarian aid. By Decree of the Council of Ministers No 373 of 24 November 2014, the government approved humanitarian aid amounting to 50 thousand. Euros. The funds have been transferred to the International Committee of the Red Cross, approved as additional expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Later, in the escalation of the military conflict at the beginning of 2015, given the increasing number of needy among the civilian population of Donetsk, the Foreign Minister approved the provision of new humanitarian aid amounting to 100 thousand. Euros. The amount is from development aid and humanitarian aid in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Unlike the previous one, which has been monetary, this aid is in kind of a first-rate, food and sanitary material. Various options and tools are discussed to provide assistance, including to assign the Bulgarian Red Cross (BCC) to organize the purchase of goods and their transport to Ukraine. The Bulgarian Red Cross responded positively to take on this task. The cooperation of the Ukrainian authorities was also provided. The tensions in Eastern Ukraine subsequently led to a temporary suspension of humanitarian operations in the conflict area of..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There, even humanitarian convoys of the International Red Cross Committee were not allowed. The delay you are talking about in providing the aid is also due to the imperfections in the legal framework for providing Bulgarian humanitarian aid. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs had to take the public procurement actions provided for in the Public Procurement Act. There's no other way, or they'll break the law. The fastest, legally permissible procedure is a negotiated procedure without notice, according to art. 90 of the ZOP. There are currently deadlines for ex ante control by the Public Procurement Agency under the Public Procurement Act. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is actively working to conduct all legal procedures as quickly as possible, but these deadlines must be respected. I share your concerns, and we will keep you informed when the inspection is completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Naydenov, come in for a second question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I appreciate and share, of course, your concern for everything that is happening in the Eastern Ukraine region. As far as I have the opportunity, I follow closely enough what is happening and I dare stress that you can put at least one more problem in the forthcoming visit of the foreign minister to all these issues, which you set out as a topic of concern on the part of the Bulgarian state with regard to the citizens and respectively this part of them of Bulgarian ethnic origin living in the zone of combat and in the clashes in Eastern Ukraine. This is the question of the forthcoming administrative reform, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, which provides for the consolidation, merger, unification of villages, including, of course, affecting the villages in which people of Bulgarian origin live. It is a question of taking into account, according to legislation, the ethnic characteristics of these areas, which are often overlooked when such mergers are proposed. And Bulgarians traditionally live in settlements that are of the order of four, five, six thousand people. So obviously there is something here that needs to be put up as a topic defending the rights of our compatriots in Ukraine, but this is a separate topic. I would like to emphasise that I also know well enough that the ceasefire came into effect from zero hours on February 15th and that, although it came into force, there is still no permanent ceasefire, because, for example, last week there were more than 70 cases of violation of this ceasefire agreement. But, see, against the backdrop of our concerns as a country, how could Germany, Britain, Turkey, Poland send specific humanitarian aid? Here I immediately put the first of the questions that I ask for further details: when we expect this whole procedure to be completed and please, when this humanitarian aid is sent on the advice of our countrymen from Ukraine, let it not be identified and let it be in the areas, albeit sent to Ukraine and not only intended for the citizens of Ukraine of ethnic origin, but where our compatriots are concentrated. True, it will be used by people of different backgrounds, but let it be known that this is from Bulgaria for the areas in which people of Bulgarian ethnic origin prevail. And secondly, you mentioned the Coordination Council. It is the impression of the people who are present at these meetings that one is spoken about the implementation of the legislation.. You mentioned the directions in which we expect visa decisions, short-term, respectively the right of permanent residence. There is one thing being said, and when this legislation is to be applied or, accordingly, the rules laid down in the legislation regarding people of Bulgarian ethnic origin, then it meets with the insolence of the soul, I mentioned, and with the passivity of the administration. In other words, there must be some change in the way this administration works, in the way it treats people's problems. I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. Listen to what Mr. Kise says about the people who have arrived in Bulgaria: The people have proved to be without real perspective, without work and therefore their problems have remained at a declarative level. People don't have houses, they don't have a place to live, they can't come back, they don't have money. For them, figuratively speaking, there is no way back and there is no present in Bulgaria. Let's see how to solve this problem!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u171	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, you are welcome to answer the two supplementary questions. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u172	Mr. Naydenov, specifically on the subject which you asked because of the negotiated procedure without the request........................................................................................ 90 from the DEA, I can't give an answer for the Agency. So this is an independent institution, they will end, hopefully, with the necessary sense of urgency. We also want this matter to be resolved as soon as possible for several reasons. This is money from the Bulgarian budget, it is money from the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They are already given and we want against what we have done to have a result. So, I assure you, on the part of the executive, about any delay or thumping of the ball and it can't be done. Regarding the Coordination Centre for Relations with Bulgarians in Ukraine. A lot of things have been done. There's always more, and better, but let's just say that there's a special phone line and e-mail at the Agency, two rooms are provided, they're also equipped. There are only three meetings of the Coordination Centre for Contact with Bulgarians in Ukraine. The last one was June 11th. Six ministries, DANS, the Agency for Refugees, the National Association of Municipalities and the Bulgarian Red Cross are involved. You know what the functions of the center are, but let me tell you the specific steps that are taken. First of all, cooperation with municipalities. According to data from the National Association of Municipalities to the Coordination Centre there is readiness for accommodation of Bulgarians from abroad in the municipalities in Burgas, Malko Tarnovo and Nevelino. Accelerated issuance of certificates of Bulgarian origin, we talked, solving individual cases, problems of ethnic Bulgarians who turned to the center, cooperation with competent institutions presented at the center, consulting for relevant legal procedures. At the moment, let us say again, there is no influx of ethnic Bulgarians who are fleeing Ukraine to Bulgaria. There is a tendency to increase the number of applications for certificates of Bulgarian origin: last year 1526 from the beginning of 2015 to 29 June 1520 were submitted. There must be a lot of things that can be fixed, to be corrected, but we still need to look a little wider. With regard to people seeking protection in Bulgaria, this is also a matter of common European importance. Therefore, for us how migration policy will develop, these people are seeking asylum from conflict, it is very important. The assistance that can be obtained from the European Commission, from the European Union, also represents a significant share in our capabilities. You know what unemployment is in Bulgaria, you know how hard it is to find work. Perhaps that is why some of our countrymen from Ukraine are having difficulties, and I do not underestimate them. We're solving a case, and that's what convinced me of the institutions involved. I'd be grateful if you had specific signals to hand them over to me, and I'll do what I have to do, I'll call the head of the Agency, we'll talk about a case, and in cooperation with you, with the Agency, we'll find a solution. I assure you, there is no insolence on the part of the executive power. Perhaps there is a fear of going beyond specific procedures, for example for public procurement, but I think you understand well that people want to be protected, not to be accused afterwards of having abused funds. I understand your human concern, and I am prepared to engage in the resolution of specific cases. You can count on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Naydenov, please express your attitude regarding Mrs. Kuneva's answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u174	I am sure, Vice-Prime Minister, that both you and the members of the government are making the necessary efforts and the necessary attention is given to the search for solutions to these problems. As you can see, I am rather trying to outline the directions in which I think it is worth putting the efforts of both the government and the specialized committees of Parliament, if necessary in general and Parliament, in terms of operational changes in legislation. Look, it's very important the direction that's coming. I am convinced that when, in your person or in the face of the people involved in the coordination of this activity, there are clear guidelines aimed at easing procedures and, accordingly, shortening the time limits within which these decisions are sought and found, the administration would comply with these guidelines. Then, when you leave the feeling that an operational solution is needed and not delaying the problems, because we have all faced this type of administration behavior, then we will not talk about these problems. Then the administration itself will seek to propose a solution even when they are not seen by the executive or respectively by the parliament. Now, you have very well used the expression "the people" in their fear of breaking certain rules, not being charged with embezzlement of money. In practice, this means blocking the activities of the administration. Blocking! Look, I'm going back to the problem I mentioned about these 40 people. Many people probably have the intention or the desire to come to Bulgaria. They expect to see how the problem of the first ones who arrived in Bulgaria will be solved. If Bulgaria as a mother country does not solve the problems and rejects these people do not expect that someone will show the desire to come to Bulgaria. Secondly, when it comes to the time at which humanitarian aid can be granted, you know the maximum that one aid provided on time is twice aid. The issue is also that people expect to see the commitment of the Bulgarian state. It is not so important how big this aid is, but that it has a commitment of the Bulgarian state. After mentioning the issue of humanitarian aid, it is remembered the promise of the Bulgarian state, expressed by the Prime Minister and respectively by members of the cabinet, that is, it is expected. [[The President said that time had run out.]] We must therefore find the way in which these deadlines are to be reduced. Regarding the acquisition of citizenship, we ask this question many times and comment. There should be no feeling that everyone who applies for Bulgarian citizenship is suspected in a desire to abuse the Bulgarian passport. We must realize that this is about people who want to be clearly identified with Bulgarian belongings and this should be appreciated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u175	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. We should also thank Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We will now continue with questions to Minister Vasileva, as Minister Lukarski is at an urgent meeting in the Council of Ministers and then we will return to him when he comes. [[(Noise and lines from BSP LB. A line from the National Representative Maya Manolova:]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u176	Dear Mr. Glauchev, it is a fact that any minister, MP or ordinary citizen can have different things happen to him and there may be some need for him to move his program, but I ask you very much, as this has obviously become clear before Mrs. Vasileva in the plenary, to be as good as you have informed the ministers, so to inform the people's representatives, or at least those who have questions to Mr. Lukarski. Because I had to ask him a question now, and my parliamentary time is set to ask him the question now, and simple respect requires you to warn me, Dragomir Stoinev and the other colleagues who have questions for Mr. Lukarski, also to move our programs. Please, another time, we are people, we can find out when someone has an urgent problem, but we can be informed of it in due course. Besides, the questions are of such a nature that Bulgarian citizens are watching the business in Kyustendil is interested in what will answer Minister Lukarski's question, they also have working hours and it is not the same whether they will listen at 12.30 or 13.30, or at least they need to know when.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u177	I appreciate your time, as well as all the other MPs, and therefore I have waited until the last moment for the appearance of Minister Lukarski, precisely because of the intentions that you are talking about. However, the fact is that it is not here yet and I think the most normal thing is to move on to the questions to Mrs. Vasileva. If you'd like us to take a break and wait for Mr. Lukarski to take this as a better approach? [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Let us move on to the questions to Minister Vassileva and when he comes to Minister Lukarski. The questions to Minister Vasileva are two and one to Minister Kralev, so half an hour I hope it is not fatal for your daily program. Once again, I apologize, I waited until the end for Minister Lukarski to come home. The question to Minister Vasileva is from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov on performances of priority axis 1................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers and Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, my current question is related to the implementation of the priority axis 1 of Operational Programme "Environment" which refers to the implementation of water infrastructure of a treatment plant or its infrastructure. In this priority axis are concentrated nearly 70% of the total budget of the Operational Programme. Its implementation therefore has a direct bearing on and influences the implementation of the programme as a whole. In this regard, my questions to you are: 1. What is the financial implementation of the priority axis 1 of the Operational Programme "Environment" as of 1 June 2015 and what is the amount of the advance, interim and final payments of the projects financed under this priority axis in percentages and in absolute values, respectively? 2. What is the real implementation of water infrastructure construction contracts? How many of these contracts have actually started construction of this infrastructure, and at what stage of implementation are they? 3. How many water infrastructure construction projects have been completed and how many waterworks have been put into operation at that date? How many are expected to be by the end of 2015 when the financial implementation of the Operational Programme is actually completed? 4. According to the MoEW estimates, is the underlying indicators for the implementation of the priority axis expected to be implemented at the end of 2015 and, if not, is the analysis of what this is due to? 5. According to the financial and technical analyses and estimates made in connection with the implementation of the OPS, is there a risk that the funds under Priority Axis 1 will not be used in full and, if there is such a risk, how much would the losses for Bulgaria be? 6. What is the amount of financial corrections on infrastructure projects under Axis 1 and do you expect projects with more than 60% of financial corrections? If there are such projects, who are they? Do you expect there to be infrastructure water projects with a 100% financial correction, and if you are looking at who they are? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Is an analysis of what caused these major financial corrections and is only the beneficiary guilty, or are the authorities responsible for the management of the OPS and the other competent authorities, respectively? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva. There are a lot of questions within the topic... three minutes you have to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chakarov! I will try, within the time available, to answer the series of questions you have asked by presenting the answers in the sequence you have set. The financial implementation of the payments under Priority Axis 1 of the Operational Programme as of 1 June 2015 amounts to 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the At the moment, 88.5% of the budget of the Oost has already been paid off. The amount of advance payments on the Otta is 754 million. lv. Or 30%. The interim payments are nearly 1.5 billion or 57.5% and the final payments of 24 million. BGN, or 1% of the budget of the priority axis. With regard to the sector "Waters" on all contracts with contractors there are started actions on the construction. The physical progress achieved is as follows: the built and rebuilt water supply network is currently 2070 km, the built and reconstructed sewage treatment plants total 35 to date from 58, which are laid down in the Programme, 9 are issued Act 15, 26 are put into operation. In percentage terms, the average physical progress is of 78%, with for the sector "Waters" it is 76% and there is no imbalance in the various components: for water-nets about 84%, respectively for sewage treatment plants about 78%. In the Priority Axis there are also identified the so-called "risk projects'. They are risky due to the fact that they contain risky components. These are 11 projects, with the managing authority expecting all others to be completed within the deadline and it is, under grant contracts, by the end of October 2015. As far as risk projects are concerned, it is working in intensive mode with the municipalities that are beneficiaries to speed up activities and finalise them. Where this is not possible within the eligibility deadlines of the Programme, it shall also be possible to phase. As regards the implementation of the set indicators for the entire programme, a detailed analysis is currently being carried out by the managing authority on the set target values by indicators and their successful implementation. As regards the analysis you mentioned, according to the Council of Ministers' decree, such analysis is carried out by the central coordination unit of the Council of Ministers, which is their commitment. According to the Council of Ministers' decree, the purpose of the report is to analyse violations-causes for financial corrections, to summarize the financial effect and to identify risks, to make proposals [[the President signals that time has run out]] measures to prevent infringements in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u181	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Chakarov, you'll have two minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam and Mr Ministers, dear colleagues! Dear Minister, we all know that the Operational Programme has gone through serious problems. Unfortunately for all of us, we have not been able to have a full mobilization so far with a view to maximum absorption rate. It is obvious that the efforts must be implemented until the last moment, as you yourself pointed out just now, by the end of October with the identified 11 risk projects. I hope that all of us have succeeded succeeded, especially the team of the Ministry of Environment and Water and other competent authorities in the structure of the Ministry of Finance, to make an analysis of the positive and negative experience, so that this is not repeated during the current programming period with a view to maximum, and effectively, making use of the funds under this priority axis, for which we all know that there is a huge need for the construction of water infrastructure. As you yourself pointed out, the 58 treatment plants have already been built 35, but there are many more that need to be built and put into operation to fulfil the commitments made. With a view to the implementation of the Operational Programme "Environment" and others, it should be pointed out as a positive step the solution of the VAT problem in a short time, which we also supported. I would also like to point out very briefly a few other issues that have emerged. First of all, about the financial corrections, it already came up a little while ago. For now, only municipalities have been blamed for these financial corrections. Only in recent days and Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev pointed out that the approach is already different. I believe that this is the correct approach, which I have repeatedly presented as a position, namely that all the entities who decide on the decision, the intermediate units and managing bodies, must be properly responsible for making decisions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just a few more sentences, Mr. Chairman. In principle, the implementation of these infrastructure projects should lead to improvement of infrastructure and achievement of objectives. And we saw that a community even sold out its property. In no case shall this be repeated but appropriate measures shall be taken. The other problem that should be in front of us is one big problem that I see, which I said at the very beginning. These are the so-called green projects. I believe that this has given rise to the relocation of funds. I do not dispute that there is a need for both transport vehicles in large municipalities and for the purchase of fire safety equipment, but these funds are intended for water infrastructure, where we all know that the need is enormous.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u183	Okay, thank you. You're delaying too much...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u184	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Two more sentences. I would like to ask and hope that there will be no more so-called practice of green meadows or projects that start from the beginning. Common reorganizations We have seen that three or four reorganizations are being carried out, including the unification of the managing authorities and the intermediate unit. I believe that these are not good practices. They should not be repeated in order that in this programming period there should be maximum, I have already said, absorption and realization of the funds under Operational Programme "Environment" and above all under Priority Axis 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u185	Here you are, Mrs. Minister if you need a little more time, because the time of reply is very late.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u186	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chakarov! Today is the first meeting of the Managing Committee of the Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 - 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u187	Good luck.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u188	Thank you for your wish. I think that success will be on all of us because the efforts to implement these projects are common. As you mentioned, this is a significant programme for giving ourselves better living conditions for our citizens, improving infrastructure and creating favourable investment conditions, protecting nature. In relation to the comments to speed up the Programme, undoubtedly, yes, the Programme has experienced severe periods. However, I would like to report here that only from November 2014 the amount of 631 million has been paid. BGN, and from 1 January until now.. 288 million, which shows that there is a serious intensity of the activities that are carried out in the realization of the projects. Since the beginning of 2015, the state budget has been reimbursed by the European Commission a total of 582 million. lv. As far as the sustainability of the administration is concerned, yes, I agree, there was a reorganization in 2014, but we believe that the built-up institutional structure, the managing authority and the way in which the Programme is managed fully meets the requirements to ensure a well-functioning system. In this sense, no reorganization of the structure is envisaged. We continue the smooth transition between the old and the new Operational Programme. With regard to the comments on financial corrections, yes, they are very painful for municipalities and we all hope that a good solution will be found. We also hope that it will be part of the mistakes learned. In fact, the improvement of legislation and the accumulation of administrative capacity will lead to a reduction of the allowed such infringements. As regards opportunities for municipalities to provide liquidity funds, there is one provided through both the "Flag" and through the opportunities to provide short-term interest-free loans through the Ministry of Finance. In this sense, we support municipalities, as you, MPs, have helped really seriously municipalities with the amendments voted on in the VAT Act, which will facilitate the rapid recovery of VAT and can really secure bridge financing in order to successfully finalise the projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u189	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to you is from the MP Petar Kadiev about air pollution and water on the river Vucha in the village of Grudno, Smolyansko. Here you are, Mr. Kadyev, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! In a nice, picturesque Rhodope village, Groudno, located in the region of Smolyan, a young Rhodopean won a project by programme and started raising cattle. Naturally, in order to raise it, it has to make relevant stables. He makes them, brings in the cattle, and everything so far is very nice, but the story is over. By making these stables, the man went so far as to build appropriate septic pits so that everything that was thrown like feces from the barns could enter the septic pits. However, this has not been done. What's going on? The entire sewerage of the village, where he takes the waters, passes in the middle of the village, along the kindergarten, past the school and flows into the Vucha River. Of course, from now on, the pollution and smells in the village are terrible! This problem has existed for two years. I don't know why he hasn't been determined so far, because the Vucha River is entering the Lake Tsankov Kamak. My question is: what measures will you take to protect the environment and water, as well as to protect the lives and health of people living in the village of Grouchno, as well as the rest who live in the river Vucha? This applies not only to the village, but also to the rest of the people along the Vucha River.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u191	Thank you. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u192	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kadiev! For the activity of these types of sites, the municipality of Devin and the Regional Directorate of Food Safety, Smolyan have the leading legal powers. The Municipality of Devin is responsible for the implementation of the Law on Construction of the Area in the section. 20, para. 3 of the Municipal Ordinance No 1 on the maintenance and protection of public order concerning the storage of manure. The Regional Directorate for Food Safety, Smolyan is responsible for the implementation of the Veterinary Activity Act and Ordinance No 44 of 2006 on veterinary medical requirements for establishments. The cow farm was registered with the Directorate in March 2014 as an establishment. According to the information provided to us by the Regional Directorate for Food Safety, Smolyan, the owner of the cow farm has been given orders by July 22nd to build a second repository meeting the requirements of the regulation. In accordance with the competences of the Ministry of Environment and Water, I would like to inform you of the following. In the Regional Environmental and Water Inspectorate, Smolyan, there has been no notification of an investment intention to build the object you have designated. In this regard, no procedure under Chapter 6 of the Environmental Protection Act was carried out to assess the need to carry out the EIA or, respectively, under the Biodiversity Act, the assessment of the impact on protected areas. On 17 June 2015, experts of the Regional Inspection in Smolyan carried out an inspection of the site in the village of Groudno, Smolyan region, including the water site Vucha river. The site is owned by a natural person and is located at the upper end of the village, near the ravine of the river Vucha, about 90 m from the nearest residential building and has 55 numbers of ruminants. At the time of the inspection 30 animals were kept. Construction works have been found to be carried out to build a waterproof second repository. The manure shall be stored in the lagoon with a dike built from to the ravine in order to prevent contamination. There are no service and sanitary facilities to the site. No unauthorised discharges of domestic-fecal waste water and infiltration of fertilizer fluid were found during the verification, both in the Vucha River and in the flowing gorge. The alleged infringement of the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act has not been notified to the competent authority, namely the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection in Smolyan. The inspection initiated administrative criminal proceedings against the owner of the establishment.. An act was drawn up on 29 June 2015. In conclusion, I assure you that the Regional Inspection in Smolyan will continue to control the sites within the territorial scope of the Inspection in order to prevent unauthorised discharges in water sites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u193	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Kadyev, come in for a two-minute cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know, I wouldn't have asked that question, I would have withdrawn it if I saw something going on. To this day, however, nothing has been done by the prescriptions already received by the owners of the farm. I am very happy that you will continue to seek responsibility from the relevant authorities in order to prevent pollution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u195	Thank you. Madam Minister, you don't want the back. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. The next question is to the Minister of Youth and Sports Mr. Krasen Kralev. It will be placed by the National Representative Ahmed Ahmedov on the construction of a sports center in the town of Tsar Kaloyan. You have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! The town of Tsar Kaloyan is the administrative center of the municipality of Tsar Kaloyan. The municipality has established traditions for sports activities. Built teams in football, wrestling, volleyball, basketball. The aim of the management of the municipal administration is the municipality to create conditions for overcoming the attitudes of adolescents for passive activities and to consider filling their free time through active sports, as well as achieving sustainable and balanced development of the population by providing entertainment and affordable sports infrastructure. This sport infrastructure must in practice ensure that sports activities are carried out in which youth actively exploits their leisure time. At present, the first stage of construction of the sports centre, financed by the Public Investment Programme of the Government of Oresharski, has been implemented. With a letter from the municipality of Tsar Kaloyan with ex. No 373 of 24 April 2014, addressed to the Ministry, was sent a decision of the Municipal Council in Tsar Kaloyan and an order of the mayor of the municipality to establish a building right No 72 of 17 February 2014 and a draft contract to establish a building right for the benefit of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, according to which the building right was for the construction of the second stage of the sports centre. Dear Minister, in this regard, I ask you to answer the following question: within what deadlines do you intend to implement the second stage of the construction of the sports centre? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u197	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u198	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ahmedov, in connection with the implementation of Decree No. 19 of 7 February 2014 of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Youth and Sports presents a project on 20 February 2014 with a subject of the "Sports Center". The second stage includes the execution of construction and installation works on the following parts: Fire alarm, heat, ventilation and air conditioning, gasification, vertical planing. The first stage of this project includes the implementation of construction and installation works on parts architecture, construction, water supply, sewerage and electricity. According to Decree No 19 of 2014 of the Council of Ministers Public Investment Programme "Establishment and sustainable development of the regions" were granted to the beneficiary municipality of Tsar Kaloyan 1 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. for the construction of the first stage of the site in question. By letter dated 22 April 2014, the Minister of Youth and Sports at this time requested additional documents from the Mayor of Tsar Kaloyan Municipality for the construction of the second stage of the project to be deposited by 25 April 2014 at the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The same are provided within the time limit. The project submitted with the subject "Sports Centre" "Tsar Kaloyan" second stage is not included in the procurement procedures approved for funding under Decree No 19 of 2014 of the Council of Ministers. By Decree No 288 of 17 September 2014 amending and supplementing Decree No 19 of the Council of Ministers, it is indicated that projects and implementation programmes on which budget managers have not concluded contracts with contractors until 17 September 2014 including, inter alia, are terminated. The deadline for funding under Decree No 19 of 2014 of the Council of Ministers is until the end of the budget year 2014. That is, the site cannot be financed under the terms and conditions of the decree quoted. For the current 2015 project may be submitted to provide funds under Regulation No 2 on financial support for construction and repair of sports facilities and facilities. The regulation sets out the terms and conditions for financial support by the Ministry of Youth and Sports for sports activities, including construction, reconstruction, modernization of sports facilities and facilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u199	Thank you for your answer. Mr. Ahmedov, you have the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u200	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I am sure that the Minister of Youth and Sports will do everything possible and will make enough efforts to implement this project, namely with the realization of this project, that is, we will achieve a better basis for the development of our athletes, a better basis for future champions. I'm pleased with your answer, Mr. Minister, and I hope we can really find this sports center together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u201	Thank you. Mr. Minister, do you want a doppelganger? No. This concludes your participation in Parliamentary control. We move on to the questions the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will answer. The first question is from the MP Willy Lilkov on the mass registration of specialized enterprises as a tool for winning public procurement. Here you are, Mr. Lilkov, to ask and develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Minister Lukarski! My question to you is about the mass registration of specialized enterprises as a tool for winning public procurement. Since the beginning of 2015, so-called specialized enterprises have been registered in mass. Their number has only grown since the beginning of this year by over 100. What's this about? Ordinary companies acquire this status as specialized and push the rest of the procedure under the Public Procurement Act. The reason is that with the changes in this law from 2014 specialized enterprises were placed in a very favourable position in public procurement. In fact, in a huge number of auctions, the law prohibits contracting entities from placing financial and experience requirements for those specialised undertakings in certain activities and thus do not apply the requirements and are allowed directly to evaluate the tenders. If these tenders comply with the requirements of the contracting authority, the rest of the unregistered companies under the special order shall not in fact be considered. In fact, according to the requirements for 30% people with disabilities in a company, one small company with 10 staff if it appoints three people with disabilities, they immediately acquire this status and, in fact, subsequent control as to whether these people continue to work with this company not, win the public procurement. The most fragile things are construction because activities are described which could hardly be carried out by disabled people and in fact cover all activities in the construction sector. I mean, it's about Speculating the law. And my question to you is this: do you accept that the award of public procurement to companies whose expertise, professional qualifications and technical capacity is not subject to control by the contracting entity is dangerous, especially in the field of construction, and can cause major damage to the state and society? How could the state exercise control over such activities of dishonest companies? Given that proof of technical feasibility is a mandatory condition for all other companies and is a guarantee for the performance of the contract quality and within the time limit, do not the reduced requirements for those undertakings prove discriminatory in terms of business and competition in the performance of the relevant contracts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u203	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u204	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov, the question you have asked is quite rightly concerned about the sudden increase reported in the registration of specialized enterprises of people with disabilities. As you rightly point out, the reason for this is the provisions of the Public Procurement Act on the basis of which such undertakings receive exceptional advantages over standard operators. In fact, the latest changes to the current law, the provisions of which have been in force since July and October 2014, introduced reliefs and rules, lack of selection criteria in respect of undertakings with disabilities. Instead of making these orders easily accessible only to the target group of individuals, the opposite effect was obtained. In practice, the amendments to the Law stimulated many business operators to change their status in order to meet the formal requirements for the registration of companies of disabled people and thus obtain unimpeded access to public procurements that can be awarded to them without checking their financial, technical and capacity capabilities for the performance of the contract. In this situation, there is a substantial shift and compromise of the objectives pursued by the introduction of advantages for certain groups of participants in public procurement. First of all, it is disputed that this is how disadvantaged persons are supported. Given the situation created, it is much more likely to encounter the effect of abuse of a right where public funds, which are designed to support the economic activity of unequal entities, are actually overflowing into ordinary companies. Secondly, it is worrying that this is happening, excluding almost completely normal market competition. Thus, the effect of the change leads to a serious compromise of the basic principles of the Law relating to equal access and the provision of competitive start-up. In view of the foregoing, an urgent need has emerged for the government to prevent the development of the practices under consideration. In this sense is proposals for discussion in the National Assembly Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. It proposes, as an immediate measure, to waive the condition that undertakings of disabled persons should not be subject to the eligibility criteria laid down in the law. These changes will address the most immediate problems arising from the existing legal order to award public procurement to disabled and disadvantaged enterprises. Regardless of the above, no doubt the State must have a commitment to this public group. However, the mechanism under which this is done must ensure that the funds go to these people, so that their personal condition is improved rather than put forward companies that take advantage of under-set legal norms to benefit themselves. In this sense, we are facing the issue of giving a completely new and flexible functional incentive model through public procurement to the undertaking, not people with disabilities. This will be presented in the draft preparations now a whole new Public Procurement Act. It will take into account the errors identified, the results of this mechanism so as to achieve the necessary degree of justice for sure that the funds actually reach the envisaged groups of people, not to an unacceptable extent, the principles of competition and access to public procurement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u205	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Lilkov, you have the floor for a line. I will also ask the questions and answers to be within the time frame, because there is an opportunity to exhaust all questions to Minister Lukarski, if this is respected by everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u206	Thank you. Indeed, at the time of the submission of the question to the National Assembly, I was not aware that these changes were being prepared. Thank you, Mr. Lukarsky, with interest I will follow how the change will take place, especially in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u207	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Do you have an asshole, Mr. Secretary? We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Maya Manolova on grants for companies from Southwestern Bulgaria under Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness." You have the floor to develop and ask your question, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u208	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Lukarski, since June has already started Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness". The first deadline for companies to submit documents on one of the measures is July 8th. So I would say to you, Bravo, for this Programme, which is extremely important for business, for competitiveness, in general for economic growth. I would say to you Bravo! "If it was fair and equal to all Bulgarian companies and if it did not destroy the business in the Southwestern region of Kyustendil, Pernik, Blagoevgrad, which as a result of the action of this Programme are doomed to an even greater decline and even greater lag. You know very well that in the way the Programme is finally approved, companies in Kyustendil, Blagoevgrad and Pernik will receive 25% lower European funding from companies in the rest of our country. I give an example: if you are registered in Plovdiv, Stara Zagora, Burgas or Varna, you will receive 60 or 70% free European funding. If you are registered in Dupnitsa, Kyustendil, Gotse Delchev or Radomir, you will receive funding of 35 or 45%. This is an absolute injustice! It's discrimination! This is going to ruin this region! Moreover, excuse me, I assume that you are aware of the statistics, but my region is lower than Vidin, Montana and Vratsa. With the operation of this Programme, companies from Kyustendil will not apply for this funding at all because it is impossible to provide 60 or 70% of their own funding. After all, this will doom down business in our region. My question to you is: what measures will you take to overcome this injustice?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u209	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u210	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, first of all, the companies in the Southwestern Planning Region can benefit from grants under each of the three priority axes of the Operational Programme. What you are talking about is the grant intensity is not subject to discretion and is not fixed by the managing authority, in this case the Ministry of Economy, under this Operational Programme. The approach applied to determine the amount of aid is followed by European State aid legislation. In the first, now open procedure, which you have spoken about, you have spoken about, the production capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises, the applicable State aid regime is regional investment aid. The requirements to be met when granting such aid are laid down in Chapter 1 and Articles 13 and 14 of Regulation No 651/2014 of the European Commission. In accordance with art. Paragraph 12 of that Regulation should not exceed the maximum intensity set out in the Regional Aid Map. In the Republic of Bulgaria, the Regional Aid Map applies for the period from 1 July 2014 to 31 December 2020 and is approved by Decision of the European Commission, I stress the date from 25 June 2014. According to this Map, the maximum regional aid intensity, the underlying intensity, is 50% applicable to the five planning areas and 25% for the Southwestern region, given the higher economic indicators of the region as a whole. Within the framework of the interdepartmental coordination of the Regional Aid Map by the Ministry of Economy, it is expressed that the high value of gross domestic product for the Southwestern region is based solely and exclusively on the higher economic development of the district of Sofia, and that it is not appropriate to reduce the intensity for the entire Southwestern region. I could provide you with a copy of the letter behind you is Mr. Stoynev who prepared it, from 1 April 2014. This position of the Ministry of Economy is not accepted by the arguments that the maximum intensity for areas of type "A' as defined in the areas defined in Bulgaria are defined at NUTS 2 level and are applicable to the NUTS 2 region concerned as a whole. In other words, it is not possible to have different aid intensity for the different areas in this area in a particular planning area, respectively Kyustendil, Pernik, Dupnitsa and so on. This has been confirmed in the opinion of the European Commission since November 2013 in response to a request from Bulgaria to reduce the intensity in the South West region. In the light of the foregoing, when preparing the Guidelines for Application under the procedures it announces, in cases where the applicable State aid regime is regional aid, the managing authority of the Operational Programme is obliged to comply with the intensity under the Regional Aid Map of the Republic of Bulgaria applicable for the period 2014-2020. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready for my douche bag.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u211	Here you are, Mrs. Manolova, for a two-minute cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u212	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Lukarski, I assume that you understand what you have been written in the reply and I suppose that I misunderstood you, accepting your answer as a refusal to do anything about changing the criteria of this Operational Programme. Do you understand that there will be no company in Kyustendilsko, Blagoevgrad and Pernik, who will apply for the Programme at all, because there is no way to provide 65% funding on which to pay interest?! And will it be competitive with another firm that will receive 70% free funding? Do you understand what this is about? This is the situation in Blagoevgrad, and in Pernik they will be further behind, which will deepen the inequality! In addition you have given five bonus points in evaluating the projects that will be imported by companies in the Northwestern region. Okay, I don't mind, because the Northwestern has similar indicators, but you've done absolutely nothing if there are even applying companies from the Kyustendil region! You've been written about these problems. This is not my idea or my own action, business and employers' organizations, mayors, regional councils, including a letter from the regional governor of Pernik, who is an activist of GERB, i.e. the ruling majority, as chairman of the Regional Council, in which people tell you... [[Replicate from Minister Bozidar Lukarski. National Representative Maya Manolova addressed Minister Lukarski and shows the letter.]] Here, you've got it, so you've read it. Don't tell me you won't do anything, because this is not a problem that arose in 2015! This is the Operational Programme, which will be implemented for seven years by 2020! So there are possible solutions. Make the necessary steps if you want to, partially stop any of the measures; if you want to, act on them; if you want to, try to remove Sofia, which raises economic indicators. I don't know exactly what to do.. You should have the necessary team, but this discrimination and injustice with regard to companies in the region must be overcome. I'm taking this opportunity to give you the invitation of the business in Kyustendil for a meeting. Come, explain, listen to them, see and make specific commitments. Because if you don't come to business and to those working in Kyustendil, they will come to you here in front of the Ministry! [[National Representative Maya Manolova provides Minister Lukarski with the letters.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u213	Thank you. Mr. Lukarsky, in the back, if you could suggest...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u214	Dear Mrs. Manolova, all these letters have been received at the Ministry of Economics. I point out, it was a good question to ask during the Oresharski government, because this problem is inherited. He was a fact. Then, I ask, what was done at the time of the Oresharski government, because then the criteria for intensity were defined? Very nice, populist it is now to say what can be done, only that this Regulation and this reaction as an Intense Card we have found and it is difficult not to say impossible, because I think there are very few impossible things in this world to do anything about. Everything else you say is pure populism, because, again, I stress the dates, I can show you the letters and the dates are in the period 1 April. The end of June 2014 when the intensity was determined. Otherwise, what we, on our part, can do and we have done, is that when it is always acceptable, as is the case in this case, according to European State aid legislation, the managing authority seeks and implements State aid decisions which will lead to the most favourable intensity possible for all regions of Bulgaria. In this regard, action has also been taken to change the Indicative Annual Work Programme with regard to the applicable aid schemes under the next forthcoming procedure. [[Heckling]] The initial project under the Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness" for 2015 in the procedure "Support for innovation in enterprises" did not provide for the use of such minimal assistance, but with a view to providing more favourable conditions for beneficiaries under the Operational Programme, including for enterprises in the Southwestern region, the changes provide for the use of this regime. There are no regional restrictions on receiving aid. The only limitation is that the maximum amount of aid of the same undertaking is no more than the remaining equivalent of EUR 200 thousand for that period. In this way, the managing authority aims to enable potential candidates to choose the more favourable regime for them themselves, whether a higher threshold of aid intensity or lower regional aid intensity, as is for the South West region, or a lower threshold, but higher de minimis aid intensity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u215	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I understand some corrective measures you're looking for along this line. The next question is from the MP Dragomir Stoinev about the development of military technology. [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, here you go, Mr. Stoinev. You will first ask your question about economic development and support for business in the Northwestern region.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for understanding. Thank you for agreeing, Mr. Lukarsky. I really wanted to turn the questions around because they're having an affair and get on with it. Ladies and gentlemen, my question to the Minister is: how will the Ministry of Economy through the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" contribute to the development of the Northwestern region? In February, Minister, you promised to do a strategy for development in the Northwestern region. You said that an important tool for its economic development will be the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness". You announced that the projects of the companies in the region would receive an additional number of points -- something more -- a separate scheme for projects from the region would be developed and 10% of the budget of each measure would be allocated to them. I don't have any more information. I do not know if you then went personally to present the Programme in the Northwestern region when it was approved, so I expect you very specifically to tell the business exactly in the Northwestern region how, how much and what benefits will it receive from the Programme and the first open measure, namely those companies that you know have the greatest need for support precisely in the Northwestern region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u217	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u218	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoynev, it is no accident and symbolic that the first measure of the operational programme is presented. I introduced her and started with Vratsa. Thank you for this question, because overcoming regional disproportions and promoting economic growth in the backward regions, and especially with regard to the Northwestern region, is one of the key priorities of the government and the Ministry of Economy in particular. In accordance with the Partnership Agreement under the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" 2014 "2020" the implementation of a territorial approach for targeted support of the Northwestern region is envisaged. The focus is on local potential, taking into account the main challenges and problems in the area. Investment activities that will be supported under the Programme will allow for reducing the intensity of economic problems, addressing adverse demographic trends in the area. The focus is on developing and increasing the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises by stimulating innovation activity, creating opportunities to start a local business in support of energy and resource efficient measures. As provided for in the Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness" projects will be supported through a separate procedure for the North-West region "Here is the answer," or by prioritizing the projects from this area under the procedures that are implemented throughout the country. In this order of thoughts, the criteria are already being applied under the first announced procedure, which I said we started by presenting it in Vratsa precisely:.............................. of production capacity in small and medium-sized enterprises........................................................................................................................................................................................................... Another approach to reducing regional differences and promoting investment activity and employment is the Law, which applies the Ministry of Economy and the Investment Agency, which allows for priority promotion of investments in municipalities with unemployment higher than the national average, 47 out of 51 municipalities in the Northwestern region can benefit from lower certification thresholds and the proposed incentive measures, namely: accelerated administrative services, acquisition of state and municipal property under light conditions, financing the necessary infrastructure, financial support for staff training, as well as partial reimbursement of statutory social contributions made to newly appointed workers and employees. In conclusion, I inform you that for the implementation of the Government Program and the Strategy you are talking about was created for the stable development of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014. 2018 and in particular the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is working to develop a targeted investment programme in support of the development of Northwestern Bulgaria, Rhodopes, Strandzha, mountain, semi-mountain, border and weak-developed areas. The aim is to overcome their economic backwardness, attract investment, increase employment and in this regard reduce the differences between the different Bulgarian regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u219	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u220	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, let me remind you that at your last meeting with business in the Northwestern region, you have even promised that almost every measure of the Operational Programme will be allocated 10%, almost for companies from the Northwestern region. I understand that this cannot happen and is impossible, but what you have said about these notorious five points is my concern, Mr. Minister, that you promise well purely political, but the officials who are preparing the methodology themselves, in my opinion, have misled you personally. Because there is a huge burden on financial and economic indicators, i.e. the history of companies, and in the Northwestern region very few companies can de facto boast of such a story. I mean, these five points in no way, Mr. Minister, will help companies, even if they pass the notorious 51 points, so they can fit the criteria. As for the question that Mrs Manolova asked you about the regional intensity, it is true that I have protested as a country before the European Commission and you should have taken the necessary measures when they sent you the answer, unfortunately, not to me, but here you should have bet more on minimum aid. As far as I know, this isn't included in the Southwest region. And here are our great concerns that much de facto by the companies in the Southwestern region, instead of receiving funding of the order of 50. 70%, they will de facto receive one financing of 25%, i.e. the minimum aid for the first.. Technology Modernization..................................... they are not included and these are our main concerns. As far as the Northwestern region is concerned, you have also promised a special strategy, but this strategy is still missing, Minister, and the business in this region awaits it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u221	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u222	Firstly, in order not to shift the focus from your question, I will focus only on the Northwestern region and tell you that I have explained the strategy that is currently being prepared under the hat of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. As for a small inaccuracies, but important that you did not receive the answer from the European Commission, this is not true because the answer came on 28 April, i.e. 28 June, when the map was set. As far as I can tell, you were still a minister back then. In fact, I'm absolutely sure I don't have a vague memory! And with regard to the five points and the fact that the companies in the Northwestern region would not be able to exceed the 51-point threshold, I am inclined to disagree with you because it was this first meeting that we also had feedback on our business representatives and consultants who were extremely satisfied with the balanced approach to setting the criteria. It's not just the burden of financial performance in the past period, so let's wait. I'm telling you this is your subjective opinion. Not to express my subjectively, I quote the business, which believes that these five points will be enough to have enough and much more than previous periods in the previous programme number of beneficiaries from the Northwestern region, because, again, the criteria are extremely balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u223	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We continue by asking the MP Dragomir Stoinev about the development of military technologies and the production of military equipment in the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Stoinev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, of course, I asked him this question at a time when there was a great deal of tension, especially what concerns the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but in the end I believe that your response is also up to date. My question is about government policy regarding the military industry. The series of problems in the Bulgarian Ministry of Health and Health, the stated intentions to privatize NITI, are the public dimensions of the topic of how the state behaves in this strategic segment of the economy. However, I would like to receive information, and through Parliament and Bulgarian citizens, what is your policy with regard to the industry and especially with regard to the management of public assets in it? I have repeatedly said that there are very serious effects in its condition with regard to national security, the economic environment and social stability in the regions in which large enterprises are located. Unfortunately, the several serious incidents in the last year also raise the issue of state control. Therefore, Minister, please answer exactly what are the prospects for the development of the military industrial complex and what specific measures and actions are you taking to stabilize it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u225	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Come in for an answer in five minutes, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u226	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoinev, before I go to the global answer to your really important question, I will also answer the specific questions raised. NITI " Kazanlak" also does not lie to me the memory was declared privatized and at your time we can argue on this issue, but with regard to VMH Sopot, pretty soon all the capacities will work 100%. I move on to the global answer to the question by saying that the government is seeking to implement a targeted defence industry policy, assessing its role in both the development of defence capabilities and the country's economy. In the context of a market economy, the government's efforts are: creating prerequisites, preserving and developing the existing potential of the Bulgarian defence industry and accelerated construction as a competitive innovative European producer. The defence industries are in good condition, they are financially stable, they produce export-oriented products, they develop new products, we have recorded achievements at global level. Production and realization of defence products has grown in recent years, with exports for 2012 worth 219 million. EUR; in 2013, exports were 235 million. EUR and in 2014 the export was doubled and amounted to 404 million. Euros. I will present very briefly some concrete measures and actions in the context of your question. At its meeting on 27 May 2015, the Council of Ministers adopted a National Programme for Implementation of the Strategy for Development of the Bulgarian Defence Technology and Industrial Base. The programme sets out the actions to be taken by the institutions in order to achieve the objectives set out in the strategy, namely the preservation and development of the traditional product specialization; increase the innovativeness of the Bulgarian defence products; develop the technological capabilities of the Bulgarian defence industry as part of the European defence industrial and technological base; increase Bulgaria's contribution to NATO and European Union research and technology programmes and in building the capabilities of the national armed forces. The National Programme provides for actions to ensure the participation of the Bulgarian business and scientific organizations working in the field of security and defence in the projects for modernization of the armed forces, which has been neglected over the past 25 years. An Action Plan for the implementation of the National Programme will be developed, which will define the responsible institutions, the ways of funding and the deadlines for the implementation of each envisaged measure. A draft strategy for security and defence research and technology has been submitted to the Council for Development. After the adoption of the Strategy by the Council of Ministers, a National Programme and Action Plan will be developed. We need to create an opportunity for the development of research in the sector and for the implementation of innovations in the Bulgarian defence industry. They are a stable basis for sustainable growth of the sector, increasing added value in the economy and ensuring stable jobs. The state has set its task, on the one hand, to present through its international contacts the Bulgarian defence industry and, on the other, to actively inform about the existing opportunities of the business. Bilateral and multilateral meetings are held at the highest level, discussing opportunities to expand the market positions of defence industry enterprises. Within the framework of the common export and investment promotion policy and in order to expand the international positions of the Bulgarian companies, there is work to improve the capacity of the trade and economic services abroad, as expected next year, as a result of the conclusion of the contracts with foreign counterparties, to realise significant growth in the traded volumes. We are consistently pursuing a policy to make full use of existing opportunities for economic cooperation in NATO and within the framework of the Common European Security and Defence Policy, as well as for more intensive bilateral industrial cooperation in this area. Conditions for supporting and expanding the participation of the Bulgarian business, industry and research organizations in NATO's international procedures and defence and security projects and programmes under the initiatives............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... To conclude, I would like to stress that I have only outlined here the macro-frame in which the government is developing its defence industry policies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u227	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Stoinev, come in for two additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u228	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in such a specific sector without the support of the state, it is difficult to realize a certain production and to develop. What you have also commented on as a turnover made in this sector clearly shows that the policy that the government of Plamen Oresharski has led is correct because we have done everything we can to support this industry. Here, of course, all people know what happened to Sopot. If it were one of your right-hand controls, you'd easily end it. Perhaps that is thinking and it is quite normal, that distinguishes the left and the right, the state not to interfere in markets that cannot function itself, let the enterprise be closed. We then made a radically different policy, namely to help this enterprise and you see that in just a year it came out of profit. It's your offer to change management. You are taking the risk for the good functioning of the VMH Sopot, but for me this is a key undertaking that must continue to work. We have shown that, with one state intervention, of course, and with government support, this enterprise has secured orders for three years to come. When I asked that question, I admit it, I was worried about Iganovo. If you hadn't opened this workshop, there would have been huge claims, huge penalties to VMH Sopot. He was walking towards a particular loss and I was worried about his future. I now very much hope that it will again follow the support policy of this enterprise, because, again, I repeat, a sector where the state can be profitable, why should it be privatized? As far as NITI is concerned, Kazanlak, I would not say that we started it, on the contrary the procedure had started, then the caretaker government already signed with the company to assess the assets. Mr. Lukarsky, my first concern is that NITI is a Kazanlak, as if preparing for a particular firm. My specific question to you is, is this the company that will win? Hopefully the privatisation procedure will fail, but eventually it will win the tender. Personally, I believe that an enterprise that was not only with us and before us was profit, let us not rush with its privatisation. Moreover, check out the people you have appointed as the Board of Directors. I have a feeling there's a disagreement as to whether this enterprise should be privatized. I'm saying this best because I'm not sure that if it falls into the hands of Arsenal, then Kazanlak will almost suddenly be a miracle. It is simply that the state will give up certain activities that bring it profit, which are ultimately important both for security and for the development of this industry. My personal opinion is that it shouldn't come to that. But is this firm a Kazanlak? Is he in? This is a competition, you can't say, but in the end, all actions lead to that the company that will win the privatization contest of Nikki and Kazanlak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u229	For an answer in three minutes please come in, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u230	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoinev, we disagree with you on the issues of the military industrial complex, unlike other issues, I think we do not have one. I'm going back to IAD. Don't speculate politically when you say it was right-wing. I'm totally on the same page with you. I have stated it at the time I came as Minister that the issue of privatization of VMZ Sopot is not at all on the agenda. On the contrary, the state's strong support for this structural-determining enterprise for the Bulgarian economy stands. To tell you that politics may have left and right, but in the economy left and right there shouldn't be because the economy is one. If you follow my public appearances, I think I have said, not once, that achieving good indicators in the field of the military industrial complex is also due to previous governance, including your governance as Minister of Economy. I've said it more than once. With regard to Nikki, however, do not speculate. I agree with you, and I can say that towards the privatisation of The privatisation process is not in such an advanced phase. As far as Arsenal is concerned, you're throwing a bomb here. I'm not prepared to think that Arsenal is a Kazanlak or anyone has a favorite. Again, privatization of Nikki is not at such an advanced stage. We currently consider absolutely all the positives and negatives of privatization of this enterprise, although the profit you are talking about is not so great and that for a long time the enterprise has not been of profit but has been of loss. This does not mean that the enterprise must be privatized at all costs. Even less to point out some favorites, given that the competition procedures haven't started at all. I agree with you that the military industrial complex must have serious state support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u231	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Will you take advantage of the right to be treated? No. We move on to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov concerning companies with state participation, whose principal is the Ministry of Economy who had funds in Corporate Commercial Bank, amount of funds, interest rates and other conditions. Mr. Slavov, before you develop your question, I give you written answers to six of your questions as follows: from Minister Moskovski, Minister Desislava Taneva, Ivelina Vassileva, Krasen Kralev, Lilyana Pavlova, two questions and answers to two questions from Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov. Here you go. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u232	Thank you. I'm going straight to the point. Mr. Minister, as it became clear, my question concerns companies with state participation, whose principal is the Ministry of Economy or was the Ministry of Economy and Energy, which had funds in KTB. In response to a parliamentary question, which I once asked to the Minister of Finance, it became clear that a number of companies with the principal of the Ministry of Economy and Energy, and now the Ministry of Economy, had significant funds in CCB. Among these companies we also see those with a difficult financial condition, we see companies such as "Kintex", such as VMZ "AD," such as Bulgarian National Company "Industrial Zones" Varna "West", "Industrial Zone", "Supporting Company" and so on. With regard to the amount of funds and the authority on whose decision these amounts have been deposited in the CCB, the Minister of Finance indicated that he had this information and we could therefore request it from the portfolio ministry. As regards possible objections to bank secrecy, which the leaders of these companies could try to do, I note that, as the principal, the Ministry of Economy may oblige them to provide the necessary information. At the same time, I also pay attention to the very recently adopted amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions in connection with the Temporary Committee on CCB and the decisions to disclose a number of circumstances concerning persons who held public positions, had preferential deposits, carried out seizures and disposals after special supervision and so on, that is to say, all things that will become public under the new provisions of the Law or for which there will be no banking secrecy. In this sense, my question is: which companies with State participation, including the above mentioned ones, of which the Ministry of Economy is a principal, had funds in KTB, in what amount, at what rate, at which interest and at which decision of which body of the company? Please specify whether Order No 127 of the Council of Ministers of 2013 has been implemented with regard to the maximum amount of funds that can be concentrated in one bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u233	Please come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u234	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, following the adoption of the quoted PMS No 127 of 27 May 2013, the companies to which the Ministry of Economy is a principal have strictly implemented the provisions and procedure regulated by the rules adopted by the Decree, the choice of a servicing financial institution carried out by the companies themselves after publicly announced announcements of the recruitment of tenders. As of 30 June 2014, the companies of which the Ministry of Economy is a principal store their money resources in 23 banks, with the total net exposure of the money resources in CCB being 16.49%. Indeed, the companies mentioned by you at the time of the withdrawal of the license have funds in the CCB and the total amount of money in the bank is 18 million. 356 thousand. BGN 677. This resource of individual companies in the bank is as follows (then I will present them to you, I have a separate sample): Bulgarian Agency for Export Insurance Sofia. The company stores BGN 3 470 914,58. at a Deposit Bank at a interest rate of 6%. The choice of the bank was made by the company in accordance with the rules adopted by the Decree, with the net exposure of the cash resources to the bank being 12,13%. State consolidation company EAD.Sofia. The company has an open deposit account in the bank at 5% interest rate, with the stored funds of 1 million. 502 thousand. BGN 067.41. The choice of the bank was made by the company under the rules adopted by the Decree. The net exposure of the money resource to the bank is 22.62%. "El Bulgarikum" "Sofia," Sofia. The company has a payment account opened in the bank at an interest rate of 0.6% and the cash resource as of 30 June 2014 in this account is BGN 1 432 036. The choice of the bank was made by the company in accordance with the rules adopted by the decree and the net exposure of the cash resources to the bank was 21,75%. National Company "Industrial Zones" "Sofia." The company has two payment accounts opened in the bank at an interest rate of 0,1% and 0,5%, respectively, with the cash resources on these accounts as of 30 June 2014. The choice of the bank was made by the company in accordance with the rules adopted by the Decree, with the net exposure of the resource to the bank being 24,21%. "Industrial Zone Varna" EAD "Varna." The company has a payment account opened in the bank at an interest rate of 0,5% and the cash resource as of 30 June 2014 in this account amounts to BGN 2 925 996,91. The choice of the bank was made by the company under the rules adopted by the Decree, but the net exposure of the cash resources to the bank was 26,94%. "Kintex" "JSC," Sofia. The total amount of the company's money resources in the bank is BGN 6 461 563 which is distributed into two deposit and one payment account. The Bank's cash resources have a net exposure of 13.61%. Interest on individual accounts is as follows: a special deposit account to secure a bank guarantee of 5,5%, and a deposit account of 3,2%, as well as a payment account of 0,1%. The choice of the bank was made by the company subject to the requirements of the rules. "Plaude and Plovdiv" Ltd. "Gabrovo." The company has a payment account opened in the bank at an interest rate of 3,55% and the cash resource as of 30 June 2014 amounted to BGN 2 226 738. The choice of the bank was made by the company under the rules adopted by the Decree. The company does not fall within the scope of the concentration requirements as the book value of its cash is below 3 million. lv. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm asking for an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u235	If you think about it, within the back. There is no hypothesis of an extension of response time. It's strictly fixed. I took the liberty of extending you a minute longer, because I think this is important, but take advantage within the backrest. Mr. Slavov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course I'm gonna give it a shot at the back, because this is really important. Within it I would also like to ask for a possible answer, as I see that most companies are really very close to the percentage that has been determined. Those 25%, which should not exceed the concentration of funds in a bank. I was impressed, for example, by Varna West, the industrial zone, I think it was the establishment where it was overrun. So he was going to 27% concentration, and there was three million levs that were held in KTB at the ridiculous interest rate of 0.1%, if I recorded it right. My request is, if there are indeed other similar enterprises with relatively high amounts, but with a very low interest rate, also to be mentioned. Of course, it is very interesting here whether this interest rate would not be considered by the Syndicates and Quaestors, of course, as preferential conditions. That is not only that it is infinitely low, but to be combined as a reason to refuse payment even of the protected by law 200,000. BGN, as the conditions are different from the general accepted for the bank. I really hope that wasn't the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u237	Mr. Minister, douche bag in two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u238	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, I am going back to Varna West and it is 0,5% of the interest rate, and only this enterprise is higher than the ceiling from 25% to 30 June in terms of about 27%, as you have correctly recorded. However, the company kept its money in five financial institutions and at the closure of KTB Bank in mid-June it had to operate with funds from other banks, which increased the net exposure in KTB EAD. I'll finish up. There's only two more companies left. "Bulgarpine export" Ltd. "Sofia." The company has a payment account opened in the bank on which a bailout has been imposed by a bailiff before the adoption of the rules. As of June 30, 2014 there are 50 BGN in the account. at an interest rate of 0,1% and net exposure of 1,91%. Given the lien imposed, the bank was not elected in accordance with the rules. The company does not fall within the scope of the concentration requirements as the book value of its cash is below 3 million. lv. VMZ EAD "Sofia." The company has an account opened in the bank on which, prior to the adoption of the rules, a lien has been imposed by the National Revenue Agency (NRA) and the operation of funds from the account takes place after authorisation of the enforcement authority. As of June 30, 2014 there are 159 248 BGN in the account. and 17 C.E. at the rate of 0,1%. In view of the claims imposed, the company did not make a choice of the bank under the rules. The company does not fall within the scope of the concentration requirements as the book value of its cash is below 3 million. lv. However, the net exposure to the money resources in the bank is 57,94%. Thank you for your attention, the numbers are provided to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u239	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov concerning objectives, messages and analysis of the working visit of the Minister of Economy in Moscow. Mr. Slavov, may I ask you to forward the written answers to the questions asked by the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Grozdan Karadzhov, respectively to Minister Moskovski and Vladislav Goranov? You're part of a group. Here you go. [[The President gives the written answers to the MP Peter Slavov.]] Mr. Belemezov, develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, in May 2015 you were the head of a Bulgarian delegation at the invitation of the first Deputy Minister of Economic Development of the Russian Federation Alexei Likhachev. The media made it clear that the main topics and issues that were discussed there were related to the preserved, but also traditionally in good economic terms with Russia, the introduction of regular meetings of the Intergovernmental Commission for Economic and Scientific and Technical Cooperation, as well as preventing the political situation and the geopolitical environment from being an obstacle to the development of bilateral relations and the development of external trade between the two countries. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: what were the main objectives, messages and expectations from the Bulgarian side related to the visit in question, and what does the subsequent analysis point to, if so far? Has the planned been achieved and what are the conclusions and recommendations for the Bulgarian country in order to continue the long-standing cooperation in the field of trade, agriculture, tourism with the Russian Federation in the conditions, I stress the imposed sanctions by the European Union to Russia and the subsequent retaliatory sanctions by the Russian side? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u241	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u242	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Belemezov, as you rightly pointed out, during my visit to Moscow in May this year I had the opportunity to meet with the first Deputy Minister of Economic Development of the Russian Federation Mr. Alexei Likhachev. Opportunities were discussed for further development of bilateral cooperation in the economic field, including the holding of the meeting of the Bulgarian-Russian Intergovernmental Commission for Economic and Scientific and Technical Cooperation. The last such meeting was in 2011 and the implementation of the next 15th meeting of the bilateral committee was planned for mid-November 2015 in Sofia. The meeting is planned to be accompanied by a business forum, which in turn will give a new impetus for the development of Bulgarian-Russian economic relations. Mr. Lichachev and I have agreed on the formation of subcommittees for the different Russian regions. We agreed that the political situation should not be an obstacle to the development of economic relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Federation, as well as that representatives of the business of the two countries have an interest in traditionally good bilateral relations to maintain. Opportunities have been discussed for further development of bilateral economic cooperation, including in terms of sanctions by the European Union against Russia and the Russian response. According to Deputy Minister Lihachev, the work of the bilateral Intergovernmental Commission for Economic and Scientific and Technical Cooperation determines the intensity of bilateral cooperation. He stressed that on the Russian side there is political will to resume the practice of regular meetings of the Bulgarian-Russian Intergovernmental Commission. Once again, during my visit to the Russian Federation, I had the opportunity to open the specially organized Bulgarian-Russian business forum, where representatives of more than 40 Bulgarian companies were present from the Bulgarian country and from the Russian business forum of about 60. This great representativeness has shown enough emphatically the desire of entrepreneurs and traders from Bulgaria and Russia to continue active relations in the economic field and overcome negative trends. A Cooperation Agreement between the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Moscow Entrepreneurs Association was signed at the Business Forum. For representatives of the Bulgarian company was organized a visit to the exhibition "Metalo " 2015" during which 52 meetings were held. Not a small number of businesses participating in business delegations expect to sign bilateral export contracts. In conclusion, I would like to express my satisfaction with the results of my visit to Moscow, including my meeting with Mr. Lihachev, which has gone into a very friendly and business environment. I expect the active dialogue between the economic offices of Bulgaria and Russia to continue, as well as the meetings of the Bulgarian-Russian intergovernmental commission to be held annually. As a result, I believe that it is possible to overcome the downward trend and to start a lasting increase in bilateral trade. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u243	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, I do not take the floor for a reply, but rather for an attitude. I hope that, indeed, with such a series of long-term relationships, not just episodes or sporadic over time, we could really move on to the warming stage of bilateral foreign trade relations between the two countries. I say this because direct victims of all these processes in the last few months and years are precisely the people of Bulgarian production, Bulgarian agriculture, the people who work in the industry. I wish success in this initiative by you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u245	And thank you, Mr. Belemezov. A hole? [[Called Minister Bozhidar Lukarski.]] You won't use it. The next question is again by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov on foreign direct investments in the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, according to preliminary data from BNB, direct investments in the country for the period January 2015 reported according to the principle of the initial direction of the investment amounted to 317.3 million. EUR, or this is approximately 0,7% of gross domestic product. I would like to point out that these figures are lower by EUR 29,2 million or 8.4% compared to the same period of 2014. The total figures for 2014 were within 346.5 million. EUR or 0.8 per cent of gross domestic product. In March 2015, foreign direct investments only increased by 52,8 million. EUR, with an increase of 208.8 million. EUR for March 2014 In view of the above, I would like to ask you the following question: What is the specific strategy of the Ministry of Economy for improving the Bulgarian business climate, respectively for the tangible increase of foreign direct investments in the country? What are the priority sectors and sectors in which Bulgaria could strengthen the focus on attracting foreign direct investment? Who are the leading countries of the economic partners that are at the heart of our state strategy to attract foreign direct investment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u247	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Come in for an answer, Minister Lukarski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u248	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Belemezov, at first I would like to make a substantial clarification for the purposes of correct response. The data you quoted for the first quarter of this year are preliminary. According to the BNB methodology, data for 2014 and 2015 are subject to revision for more than a year. For this reason, the real picture can be established when comparing either the data initially published by the BNB or the final data, compared with the annual data of the National Statistical Institute and the additional reports received by foreign participation enterprises for a period of 12 months after the end of the reporting period. The initial reported value of this indicator for January 2014 was 88.9 million. EUR, which is 228, 4 million. EUR less than reported for the same period of 2015. That is, in the correct comparison of the preliminary data of the investments for the first quarter of this year, they are actually 3.5 times higher than those for 2014. The direct foreign investment for the quarter of 2015 is 317.3 million. Euros. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. EUR at only 219 million EUR with the same period of 2014. That is, at this stage BNB data show that the gloomy forecasts for decline in investments are disproved. In recent months, three certificates totaling 128.32 million were issued. lv. of three companies, two for class A and one for priority investment project, and they are expected to implement 327 new jobs. In the process of certification are currently investors that will bring over 87 million. lv. or about 943 new jobs for the next two or three years. It was for the purpose of increasing foreign direct investment in the country that the Ministry of Economy prepared an analysis of investors' problems. Together with the Ministry of Finance, there is a mechanism for regular monitoring of the investment climate on the basis of which recommendations for government policies are to be formulated periodically to improve the business environment and stimulate investment activity. We are also preparing amendments to the Rules for the Implementation of the Investment Promotion Act, which, in addition to the introduction of the provisions of the new Regulation No 651 of 2014 of the European Commission on block exemption, also provide for the facilitation of administrative requirements for investors. We are working on a significant reduction in the time limits for issuing the so-called "Synthesis card" which allows the residence and work of highly qualified foreign specialists in Bulgaria. With regard to the administrative services of local and foreign investors, the Bulgarian Investment Agency aims to become a one-stop shop for all investors Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u249	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Belemezov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, thank you for your reply. I have raised the issue of foreign direct investment because it is really very important in the economic policy of every Member State of the European Union. At the same time it is very, very important and delicate for Bulgaria, as we are in the conditions of budget deficit, negative budget balance. This, on the one hand. On the other hand, the forms of excessive external debt increase, as we voted in this year, create in some way the prerequisites for reducing the total volume of foreign direct investment in each country, this is respectively. This is where I appeal for the Ministry of Economy to continue with the offensive measures regarding the increase of foreign direct investments in Bulgaria. This in itself would improve the general business environment and business climate in Bulgaria, would increase the economic performance of the state and at the same time change in some way the government strategy, the legislative strategy in terms of voting on the State Budget Act every year, as the parameters themselves will be completely different. Foreign direct investments are also used for people who live in Bulgaria. I often have meetings with various entrepreneurs in Sofia and throughout the country. In fact, the main problem people are facing, especially in small towns, is this. Even if there is direct foreign investment in these settlements, even if some production facilities and businesses are created, in fact the main problem is that there people do not have the expertise to take over the management of such types of enterprises, to take over the expertise, technological positions inside. This is also a very important issue which could be discussed between the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Education and Science as a whole, because in fact the technological specialties in secondary schools in these areas at this stage do not create the necessary personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u251	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. A hole? You're not going to use the right to dodge, Mr. Secretary. The last question provided in today's parliamentary control, with a view to the progress and end of the working day, is of the MP Dimitar Gorov. It is about improving the investment climate in Bulgaria. Mr. Gorov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u252	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! My question is somewhat related to the previous one. According to data from the National Statistical Institute in June, the business climate in Bulgaria is deteriorating, yes, for the first time in several months, but is getting worse. Expectations in retail trade are seriously worsening, with the sector's composite business climate indicator falling 2.7 points. In the services, this indicator also reports a decline, slightly lower by 0.9 points. The main reasons that are shared for this reduction are the uncertain economic environment, competition in the industry and insufficient demand. These indicators worsen expectations for the investment sector, which also reduces potential investment intentions in these sectors. There is also a slight decrease in production activity in industry. The reasons found are related to the uncertain economic environment and insufficient demand in the economy. In the construction sector, the same indicators as in the previous period were observed. The main reasons are also low demand. Here there is another additional "bad financial relations" in the sector. I would just like to point out that, in this part of the year, with regard to this sector, especially even the preservation of trends is, to say the least, worrying. It is clear as a general assessment that, for this reporting period of the Statistical Institute, the end result is towards deterioration of the investment climate by 0.7 points. I would like to mention here several circumstances also related to this. Firstly, the situation in Greece and the crisis there has not been reported. It is clear to us all that our economy is tuned towards the economy of the European Union and Greece, as our close partner, is also problematic in the future. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] At the same time, the 26% tax imposed in Greece on our transactions and actions in our economy has not been taken into account, although as far as I know, you have a proposal for a solution to this problem. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In this regard: what does the Ministry do to improve the investment climate in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u253	Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u254	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Gorov! I will initially allow myself to disagree with your subjective assessment of the stability of the economic environment, and I will specifically move to the answer to this particular question. Reducing the administrative burden and creating good conditions for investment for local and foreign enterprises is a top priority in the work of the Ministry of Economy. In connection with the successive process of reducing the administrative burden of regulations and with current business proposals, a review of the regimes administered in the Ministry's system was carried out in order to optimize them. The regimes, which are not within the competence of the Ministry of Economy, were sent to the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and the State Administration and Minister for Home Affairs with a proposal for the competent institutions to rule on the possibilities to reduce administrative and regulatory burdens. The Ministry of Economy also co-ordinates the work on the preparation and implementation of three consecutive action plans In accordance with the first two plans, three codes, 22 laws and more than 50 regulations, instructions, regulations, etc. were amended as of 31 December 2014, 224 of all of the planned 302 measures were implemented. A reduction in the administrative burden for business by 256 million has been achieved. lv. annual, representing 16.4% of the planned 20%. New implementation deadlines have been adopted for the outstanding measures by the end of 2015 and 2016. Regarding the implementation of the Third Action Plan adopted by the Council of Ministers at the end of May this year, the potential to reduce the administrative burden on businesses from the 130 measures included in it is 144,5 million. lv. At present, four of the measures have been implemented, as a result of this reduction in the administrative burden, the business has accounted for an amount of 8,6 million. lv. on an annual basis. The other more important measures in this Plan are: the establishment of a single information system between the National Statistical Institute, the National Revenue Agency and the Registry Agency, the reduction of the deadline for carrying back amounts of excise duty from 14 settlements, the simplification of the procedures for submitting credit applications under the State Fund's Credit Scheme for investments in agriculture and others. Another aspect of improving the business environment is the regulation of the charging system. The Ministry of Economy is the initiator of the introduction of the principle of cost orientation in the determination of state fees. The aim is to introduce clearer principles and transparent rules by means of the methodology for determining the cost-oriented amount of fees collected under the regulatory regimes and for the expenditure of the funds collected from the fees, irrespective of the authority authorised to collect them. The impact assessment of regulations is extremely important for businesses, especially small and medium-sized businesses. In this regard, the Ministry has developed a Concept for carrying out the so-called..... analysis of regulatory changes and the impact they would have on small and medium-sized enterprises. The text on the impact on small and medium-sized enterprises is enshrined in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legislative Acts, which is currently uploaded for public consultation on the public consultation portal. This is also the measure to reduce the regulatory burden on business and is an important tool to help improve the quality of normalization and overcome frequent legislative changes that lead to uncertainty in business conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u255	Here's a line for you, Mr. Gorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u256	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, whether you agree with the findings I have made is your right. Just for the record, they're not mine, they're the official data of the National Statistical Institute. From this point of view, whether you agree or not, this is not the situation that matters. The previous month the data was different, but this month it is and there is no other way. Despite what you have read us as actions by the Ministry, the assessment made by the business in Bulgaria at the South East European Economic Forum, organized by the World Bank, is that four major problems have been identified by those present. The first, 4.5% of corruption is a major factor in deterring investment intentions and economic growth in Bulgaria. Secondly, far after corruption is the reform of the judiciary by 21.3%. Thirdly, the administrative burden is 11.3%. Fourth, Bulgaria's insufficient advertising as a place for investment. What are the proposals for solutions from this Forum? First of all, avoid working with government institutions. Secondly, minimize the number of contracts with anyone in the country. Thirdly, a strong competition policy is needed to overcome the monopoly position of the strong of the day. And in fourth place, education and qualification. It has been found that there are no staff prepared in the country for the new investment processes. From this point of view, I do not know what is being done in the Ministry, but the facts show quite other results. It is true that not everything that is a result in the economy is related to the Ministry itself and to the Investment Agency. Such are the increase in the price of electricity, as well as a number of other processes that are currently running in the state and have a negative impact. But these are assessments that I don't make. Again, these are not my conclusions, but the conclusions of the National Statistical Institute and the business forum organized by the World Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u257	Thank you, Mr. Gorov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u258	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gorov, what you said was actually quite speculative. The World Bank in relation to the Southeast Europe Forum specifically came up with a rebuttal about the statements of MPs from your parliamentary group regarding what your representatives have said. They said it was taken out of context and didn't correspond to reality. And you keep quoting all the things you want out of context. This one first. Secondly, with regard to data from the National Statistical Institute. We know about June. If you were listening, you must be listening carefully to my answer to the previous question by Mr. Belemezov, let us wait for the final data of the National Statistical Institute for this month after the correction and then comment on them. As to the fact that this was not your conclusion, it was not your subjective position, I also say that this is not my subjective position for the stable business climate in Bulgaria, but it is an assessment of the majority of Western investors, which also affects the growth by 3.5 times of foreign investments in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u259	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. By doing so, you have fulfilled your constitutional obligation. Dear Members of Parliament, due to the running out of time for parliamentary control, I am closing today's plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-03.u260	Next regular plenary session Wednesday, July 8th, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
