ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please register. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. There is a quorum. One message. On 3 December 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2020. No 539-00-44 was received in the National Assembly by the President of the Board of Directors of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 October 2015. On 25 November 2015 and Protocol No 70 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. By my letter, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Today we begin with: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR PROTECTING THE EARTHS OF EARTHS. Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. President, honourable Members, before we start with the Draft, please put to the vote a tolerance in the Hall of Stilian Mitev
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u3	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. They voted 130 MPs: 115, against 3, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u4	Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, No 502-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2015, adopted on the first vote on 23 September 2015. The Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u5	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law. Vote 131 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u6	The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 4 after the word 17a, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u7	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 1 on the Commission report. They voted 116 MPs: 112, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u8	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u9	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 1 by importer which shall become § 2 supported by the Commission. Vote 112 MPs: for 109, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u10	Proposal of the MPs Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The agreement of the reclamation project under para. 2 shall be carried out by the Minister of Agriculture and Food, or by an official authorised by him, when it is envisaged to be re-cultivated land for agricultural purposes and/or for its inclusion in forestry areas. 2. The creation of para. 4. Other than the cases referred to in para. 3, the coordination of the reclamation project shall be carried out by: 1. the Minister of Environment and Water, or by an official authorised by him, for insurance, as well as for landfills and other landfills within the meaning of the Waste Management Act; 2. the Minister of Energy or a recultiation official authorised by him resulting from the activities of operators of active search and investigation authorisations or for exploration or mining concessions for the respective mining waste facilities; 3. the Minister of Economy or by an official authorised by him to recultiate closed mines, mines and facilities to them included in regulations governing the closure activities of mines, mines and mining facilities from coal, mining and uranium mining; 4. The Minister of Energy or the Minister of Economics according to their competence or by officials appointed by them
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u11	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 3 on the Commission report and in its version. 120 MPs voted: 117, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u12	According to § 3 there is a proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: For the construction of linear objects of the technical infrastructure, where they are not located on the surface of the terrain and the required area of each of the facilities adjacent to them located on the terrain is up to 15 sq. m. and for linear electricity transmission units with a voltage level of 110 kV and above the required area of each element of the linear object is up to 100 sq. m. is equal to or greater than 100 m/s2. 2. The creation of para. 3: In the case of a concession granted by a decision of the Council of Ministers, a change in the purpose of agricultural land for non-farming needs provided for by a common construction plan and in the case of a concession granted by a decision of the Council of Ministers shall be carried out without a procedure for validating a site or a design route.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u13	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 4 on the Commission's report in its version. Vote 113 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u14	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u15	We vote, fellow Members. Vote 110 MPs: for 107, none against abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u16	According to § 5 the proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 3 the word "Five" is replaced by "Sedmah" and is finally added in the case of an opinion on the accession of the site issued by the network operator concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u17	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 6 on the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u19	We are voting on the two importing paragraphs supported by the Commission with a new numbering of the paragraphs. Vote 113 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u20	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40 the following 1. In para. 1 is created t. 9 and 10: Nine. suspend the procedure for changing the purpose of agricultural land when matters relating to health, construction and other requirements or restrictions provided for in law arise until their clarification; 10. Allows temporary use of agricultural land under the terms and conditions of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. 2. In para. 3 in a sentence first after the words
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u21	There are no Paragraph 9 statements. We vote. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u22	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u23	We vote. Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u24	According to § 10 the proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1 para. Two is canceled. 2. In § 2: (a) in para. 2 the words "built buildings" shall pay in addition to the value of the land' shall be replaced by "the object" shall pay. (b) the creation of para. 3: Where the land on which the construction took place is state or municipal property within the meaning of art. 10b, para. 5 of the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land and the amounts under para. 2, the owner of the site may acquire ownership of the land with a changed purpose at its market price, in accordance with the rules for the implementation of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u25	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 11 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 111 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u26	Proposal of the National Representative Zhivko Martinov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up a section of the "Transitional and Final Provisions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u27	Statements? I won't. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u28	The Commission proposes to set up § 12: ................................................................................... The procedures for the coordination of a reclamation project initiated until the entry into force of this Law are completed in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u29	After this text we enter the Additional Report. Statements on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 12? I won't. We are voting § 12 in the version of the Commission on its report. 110 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u30	"Acceptance Report" to the IC Report. No 553-07-46 of 13 November 2015 for the second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, No 502 01 54, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2015, adopted on the first vote on 23 September 2015. Proposal of the National Representative Zhivko Martinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle, i.e. 1 is reflected in § 17. Proposal of the National Representative Dobrin Danev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. The law on the ownership and use of agricultural land (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. The second sentence is replaced by the second sentence. (b) paragraph 16 is amended as follows: The Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture, after the entry into force of the order under para. 4. submit a request to the municipal council for the provision of the properties of the Polish roads falling into the arrays of use, at a price of the average annual rent payment for the land. The Municipal Council shall adopt a decision within one month of the submission of the request. Within 7 days of the entry into force of the decision, the mayor shall issue an order which shall be published on the municipal website. Within one month of the issue of the order, users shall contribute to the municipality's bank account the amount of the Polish roads designated for use and conclude contracts for the relevant business year with the mayor of the municipality. Where, within one month of the request, the municipal council has not adopted a decision, the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture shall determine by order the price of the properties.. Polish roads, in the amount of the average annual rent payment for the land. The order is announced in the City Hall and in the building of the Municipal Agriculture Service and is published on the website of the municipality and of the respective Regional Agriculture Directorate. On the basis of the order, users shall submit the amount to the municipality's bank account within one month of its issuance. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 t. 1 and 2 are amended as follows: "1." the size and location of the measures, pastures and meadows for general and individual use; 2. rules for the use of the properties under point 2. (b) para. 2: (aa) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The regulations for the use of the properties under para. 1, t. 1 contain: (bb) c. 2, 3, 5, 7 and 12 the words "meres and pastures' shall be replaced by "meres, pastures and meadows'; (c) in para. 4. (aa) in the text before t. 1 the words "meres and pastures' shall be replaced by "meres, pastures and meadows'; (bb) c. 2 the words "meres and fields' shall be replaced by "meres, pastures and meadows'; (c) c. 3 the words "meadows and pastures' are replaced by the words "meadows, pastures and meadows'; (d) in para. 5 words shall be replaced by meters, pastures and meadows, and the words shall be replaced by meters, pastures and meadows; (e) paragraph 7 is repealed; (f) in para. 8 the words "meadows and pastures" shall be replaced by "meadows," pastures and meadows." 3. In § 2c of the Additional Provisions: (a) paragraph 1 is repealed; (b) in para. 2 words are deleted and finally the words are added and the horses are added.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u31	Statements, colleagues, according to § 13 of the Commission's Additional Report? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u32	Madam President, honourable Members! We will not support this paragraph for many reasons, but perhaps the first one I would like to address is that, with the Agricultural Land Conservation Act, we are changing four laws that have not been discussed in the Commission, as is necessary under laws that pass through the Council of Ministers and have an opinion accordingly. It is therefore very likely that making mistakes will happen in the Commission, given the fact that things are being offered that are generally not desirable to pass through the Council of Ministers and know that they will not be approved. This is a practice that I think needs to be stopped because precedents are being set. On this text, we will vote against it, because the Property Act has changed three times already. We have made a curtsy, a compromise for farmers, the Polish roads to have the opportunity to rent, to have a legal basis for their use and, accordingly, farmers to benefit from subsidies for them. Until the previous year, I am talking about 2014, they did not have this option, they were excluded from the support and the old text of the Law was respectively: that the use arrays are allocated by the district directorate and the order separately justifies the Polish roads, that is to say they exist independently. There is a procedure under which municipalities, respectively the Minister of Agriculture and Food, can intervene in a particular case, can provide the Polish roads with one-year contracts. What is now suggested that the roads are wiped out at all because they enter the array of use, that is, they disappear at the end of the order. Our assumption is that these roads, because they are gone, we will anyway put them into the array of use, we will use them and at some point they can be completely blurry accordingly. But, honourable colleagues, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food a few days ago came up with the opinion that there are 25 million pieces of land, there are three and a half million owners. If these owners at any point decide to use their land, they won't have a way because this time they'll just be erased from the map. Therefore, this change will create extremely many problems in the future from the municipalities to be able to receive and accordingly keep these Polish roads. The other thing that also impresses is that light cosmetic changes are added, but the leading one is what is offered in the Law accordingly. You can see in the Commission's shorthand, if that is what you are interested in, my question: Why is this being done? The answer was because the experience, which is 3 months from the last change in the Law, showed that this text of the Law could not work. Sorry, if the administration in the Ministry can't adjust their software or work, it's not the National Assembly's job to make it easy to constantly benefit someone. These are those who will benefit from the fact that they receive subsidies on the Polish roads. A big debate was about the definition of what animals are at the end. However, I do not want to repeat this, colleagues, when the Property Act writes the concept and changes completely, and cancels what has been acting, at least refer to the rest of the legislation. There is now a second reading of the Animal Treatment Act. There's a whole chapter of what ruminants are, there's a regulation of the minister who defines, but here we put concepts that don't exist in the other legislation. I suggest you don't support him because we're creating a problem. The Polish roads are public municipal property and must remain public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u33	- What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u34	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I use my right to make an explanation about the proposal I made in the Committee on Agriculture and Food to postpone the property and use of agricultural land as defined by the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land property sanctions of commercial companies under art. 3, para. 7 of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u35	He doesn't belong here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u36	Although the proposal has been withdrawn, as there has been a very big media noise...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u37	Mr. Stankov, we are currently debating § 13. Your proposal, in my opinion, is further back on the report. [[Noise and lines.]] And there's a withdrawal here? He's not in the extra report. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u38	It has been withdrawn by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u39	It has to reflect. One report can't have it, the second report can't disappear from existence at all. The second additional must at least indicate that it has been withdrawn. With reports like this, we go in here to see magic. Go ahead, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u40	I would like to make a statement here that this is my personal proposal as an expert, dictated by the need for a proper solution to the problem that has arisen. This is not a proposal from the Political Party ABB and the ABB Parliamentary Group, it is not in agreement with them and I insist on not contacting them in any way. My fellow Members, I would like to say that there is indeed a problem and it must be known by the Members of the National Assembly. First of all, at the signing of the Treaty of Accession of Bulgaria to the European Union, our country has agreed to comply with all the founding treaties and European provisions. This means banning all restrictions on the establishment of commercial representations, a restriction on the movement of capital between Member States and between Member States and third countries, including management and disposal of agricultural land. Second, in spite of the Agreement, the amendments to the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land of 7 May 2014, adopted by the Forty-second National Assembly, introduce certain restrictions and prohibitions which the European Commission considers to violate the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I believe it has been done with the best intentions and this has had to be done for real, but the European Commission does not consider this and attacks the basic limit of seclusion for five years. And third, the forty-third National Assembly of Twice addresses this problem and makes a decision that also does not correspond to the arrangements. In this regard, as a result of all this, the European Commission has launched a criminal procedure against Bulgaria No 2015/2018 according to the European Commission's description on contradictions with the provisions of the Bulgarian Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land with art. Art. 49, Art. 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Bulgaria is required to carry out an expert analysis and proposal for implementing measures other than those of the current Law, which do not contradict those of the European Union. In view of the criminal procedure against Bulgaria, if no measures are taken and the legislation is not amended, property sanctions will be imposed. The Commission has launched infringement proceedings against Bulgaria under art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and a reasoned opinion is yet to be issued. In the event that our country does not take steps to remedy any discrepancies with this Treaty, the Commission will refer to the Court of Justice of the European Union within two months of the issue of the above-mentioned opinion. Following the judgment of the court, sanctions will be imposed from the date set by the court. For these reasons, we have proposed a postponement, but after this media noise has been raised, we have withdrawn this proposal. We believe that the problem remains and should be dealt with very seriously in order not to be sanctioned. We must make sure that the lands we are talking about go not again to the biggest ones as expected, but to those who really need them. So under this law, we still have a lot of work to do and it will probably still have to be tabled and dealt with with with the most correct solution to the problems that have arisen. Maybe I should also say that this is about trading companies, and there's a very big difference because there are several of them. Perhaps such sanctions should be mostly for offshore companies. This is coming, and it must be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u41	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. - What's the line? First line, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u42	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stankov, the noise isn't just media. The noise is in your state-of-the-art thinking and what you're doing. The way you did it is unacceptable. It's clear to everyone that the text is lobbyist. It is clear from this text that the loss for the state budget is about 80 million. So your explanations and statements regarding this Law are simply inappropriate! The only thing I liked about your speech is that ABB is different from this proposal. Take personal responsibility for what you're doing!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u43	Second line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u44	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I accept Mrs. Ahmedova's criticism. I think it wasn't exactly the place and the time to put it there in this Law, but the problem is there. The fact that there are problems that need to be solved in Bulgarian agriculture, that there are many accumulated problems is a fact. We must distinguish ourselves from the fact that there are several companies which have different subject-matters. For example, public companies where pharmaceutical companies are mostly, I think they do not have these problems and are perfect in their activities. Anything else. What has been arranged for European citizens to own property is for the entire European Union. There are other countries like ours. So we had to coordinate with them as well. One more thing. Third-country nationals - these are five countries that are also working well. What we had to do was for the clean offshore companies. Maybe that's what we should have done, but we didn't do it so far, which is probably a mistake to all of us and most of all to the government right now. I accept these remarks, but we really need to do what we say and declare to make sure that these lands go to small producers, to young farmers. I appeal from here to find out what's going on next, who will buy these lands. And to give a report to the National Assembly on what amounts we have received and whether we will give a little more than what we are scheduled to receive to go for sanctions. There are things we need to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u45	To speak, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u46	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will return briefly to the question that Mrs. Bachvarova put about the additional proposal under the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land. This is not the first time we have seen the discussion of agricultural laws, where it is acted in a way that raises a number of questions about the implementation of the Rules, but also raises questions about the appropriateness of proposals in view of their content. Notice what paradoxical situation we find: at first reading we are discussing the Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, and at second reading, MPs and the majority in the Commission offer us amendments to the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land that violate the conservation of agricultural land, because what is proposed here in the supplementary report, as it was justified, creates conditions and opportunities for removing Polish roads and thus affects exactly that part that provides access to some of the arable land. Therefore, as well as the proposal, which Mr Stankov withdrew, was of the same category, under the pretext that the Commission should reconsider it. Here we have more proposals made. Therefore, Madam President, I also appeal to Minister Taneva, I hope that you will take an attitude in which you will clearly express the opinion on behalf of the Ministry of Culture not to support this text. Otherwise, it will turn out that you tolerate the actions of MPs who protect private corporate interests and not a public interest related to changes in legislation. This isn't the first time, so I'm paying attention. Madam President, you have been put in a difficult position since the Commission has submitted a report to you not to give it here for discussion and voting. In your place, I would refer to the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which provides that proposals that go beyond the subject matter and scope of the bill adopted at first reading are not discussed and voted. We're facing a flagrant case, that's exactly the case! You have the opportunity to divert what is now proposed from being voted. But if you don't, let's hear what the minister thinks. I call on the MPs to reject this text to show that they are not sent here to protect the interests of some groups and to benefit from it, but are able to make decisions that are in the interests of the majority of Bulgarian producers, to protect Bulgarian agricultural land and to express public interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u47	- What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u48	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to make a little clarification because here it's been heard that the Polish roads are being destroyed. This change does not concern the destruction and termination of the Polish roads such as the municipal public property.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u49	Is that a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u50	I'm replicated by the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u51	Mrs. Bachvarova was talking about the roads. Okay, finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u52	This is only about reducing the administrative procedure so that users have time to enter real ownership of the land. Nobody destroys anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u53	Second line, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u54	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stoilov, this text we are debating has been withdrawn. He won't vote. The problem is that in the Commission there are voices reflected.. 17......................... without the members of the Commission attending. The question of who these 17 are cannot be seen by name, but the problem is that in the Commission itself, the number of votes in the same way does not coincide with what it should be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u55	Is there a third line to Mr. Stoilov? A hole, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u56	Mrs. Ahmedova, you are putting an additional issue on which I cannot take part because I am not involved in the Commission's work and I do not have such information. Moreover, if there are objections of a normal nature, if the texts are voted in this way, this is indeed a serious matter. This should now be taken into account by people who can confirm what you say. When I raised the question, it was the proposed change in § 13, which was not withdrawn and which... [[Replica from Ferihan Ahmedova.]] Here, this paragraph is proposed to accept it, not to withdraw from the Commission. The Commission proposes that § 19 be withdrawn, and so on. 4 of § 14. The rest of the content is present and I continue to argue, without it being written, that conditions are being created within these common arrays to affect the Polish roads. I don't want to go into the details of the content. There is sufficient question that I put that between first and second readings changes are made to laws that did not exist at all in the initially introduced Bill. These are not amendments that correspond and follow from the content of the basic law. That is precisely why they completely go beyond the subject matter and scope of discussion and voting at first reading Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u57	Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I wasn't going to take the floor, but since the activities of the Committee on Agriculture and Food have been affected, I would like to say that the proposal of my esteemed professor. Stankov was read out loud. Then it was voted by all the Commissioners, for which there is stenographic and audio recording and can be checked. That someone in the Commission has missed the text that was read by Prof. Stankov, it's his problem. Very please, several attempts have been made in this Chamber to attack, not just now, Professor Stankov. Professor Stankov is an extremely decent man and a very good expert. I don't see why he should be blamed for things that are obvious. When we talk about the 80 million that the state misses, I want someone to explain to me how you calculated it? Who took out 300,000 acres of land owned by offshore companies? I want to tell you that I have no personal interest at all. None of my family nor I do agriculture or agricultural land trade. First of all, they're not that many. Secondly, no one is saying that these offshore companies are going to have to put some order on offshore companies, but nobody said that these offshore companies will not transform their companies, lighten them up and so on to assume that all sanctions will be taken by the state. They're not 300,000, they're a lot less. If we consider it to be 200,000, this is about 0,5% of the arable land of the Republic of Bulgaria. About 0.5%! I've just taken the floor, I mean, what was the idea? Professor Stankov explained that there are four groups that fall under the sanctions of this paragraph. The first group are European citizens, for which we have set the requirement...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u59	Mr. Hristov, this proposal has been withdrawn, not in the Additional Report. We are discussing the text on the Additional Report. You confuse the House on both reports, which one we should finally vote on. It became clear that this was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u60	I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u61	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. Madam Secretary, you are.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u62	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! First of all, I would like to express my regret that when the debate on certain texts broke out here, I was absent from the country on the occasion of the visit to China and could not express the position and explain the factual situation in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food as it is. To begin with the......................................................................................................... Bachvarova and Mr. Yanaki Stoilov do not know if he is in the hall. Dear colleagues, let us explain what this is about. Some of the speakers said how many agricultural plots there are in Bulgaria, how many million owners. Bulgaria has taken the path of the development of the agriculture of comatose use of agricultural land. If we listen to the motives of Prof. Bachvarova, we have to take the following stand in the legislation: agriculture, which takes place on real land borders.. average size of five and a half acres. I ask only a question: what will Bulgaria do if the legislation creates conditions for it to be viewed within the real limits of five and a half acres of medium-sized plots and in the legislation there is an explicit provision for the Polish roads to be separated and not to work on them? Bulgaria a few years ago began and took the path of comatose use of agricultural land. The changes we have made and given the outline of the spring of Campaign In 2015, the factual situation was taken into account. The combined use of agricultural land, the rule introduced to have the right to subsidies, if you have a legal basis here, this National Assembly has adopted a procedure whereby, when municipal, Polish roads fall into the arrays, farmers have the opportunity with one-year commitments, payment of the respective rent, to have a legal basis and the municipality gets its income. The first part of this § 13 is merely a clarification of the procedure. Where there are no relevant decisions of the municipal and local authorities, there should be an appropriate act of the respective Directorate of Regional Directorate of Agriculture, so that the rights of both parties are protected from both sides and that the municipality receives its income and has a valid legal basis in order to apply for support areas. The second part of the change is agricultural pastures. I am immediately telling you why this change is practically proposed. Of course, it is your will to reject it according to the call you had from a BSP colleague. But I'll tell you what would happen. In Bulgaria, the main problem and everyone who knows livestock will say it is insufficient insurance with such a land fund "Mary, pastures and meadows" of agricultural animals. Again, this National Assembly, in this mandate, adopted rules for the allocation of this fund between owners of establishments and animals, so that we can help with priority those who have animals, and we have ruled out.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This was a unanimous opinion from all parliamentary groups. What size did we start from? The insurance in Bulgaria with such an animal unit fund is 0.4 hectares per animal unit, provided that the technological norm for pasture animals is at least one hectare per animal unit or we have 40% assurance. We've included these definitions. What was the effect and what happened? Suddenly donkeys, mules and mules became the most sought after animals, so that the owners of pastures, meres and meadows without animals could protect their sights. I ask: is it appropriate for donkeys, mules and lawmakers to give priority, to provide them with such a fund to receive subsidies, provided that these animals are generally for small farmers who carry out their household needs in the villages? With the amendment of this text, we exclude this group. I began to receive calls: "There has been a law passed, there has been a mass search for donkeys, so that those who have meres, pastures and meadows can retain the rights of subsidies. " With this text, we simply exclude this type of animal, which is not profitable for agriculture and therefore for food security animals such as cows, sheep, goats. That's the change. Yes, you are entitled to hear the call and not to vote. In the current order, this type of animal, which is of a completely different purpose and they will be entitled to this fund, which is extremely high - 40% the insurance of the animals, which give meat and milk to the Bulgarian table, this text is made for this purpose and with this change. The other part of the text is about the clarification of what is the legal basis again as the right to outline the land fund used for this fund, which is given for general use. It cannot be a valid legal basis because there is no way to determine which animal or animal unit is right to do so. These are the changes in this text, whose call was not to vote and, naturally, the will of the MPs to decide what position they will adopt. Madam President, please allow me, outside the debate on § 13 to say, however, the situation concerning the debate that took place with the text that was withdrawn at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u63	It doesn't say he's been withdrawn. It's not in the report. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u64	Of course, I can extra...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u65	Withdrawn to the hall. He became Mr. Stankov and declared.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u66	In addition, I can explain, although Professor Stankov was precise enough for the penal procedure he had. I would just like to announce that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is preparing a land code, as we have stated in our political programme. It will step on an analysis of all European legislation in other member states on land relations. Our deadline, which we have set, is to present it in the middle of next year. In this Bill, which must solve and many existing problems, we thought it best to obtain a final solution there, including the problems it has. It is simply that the debate on some of the problems has become earlier, of course, the right of the people's representation is to decide when to do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u67	Thank you Minister Taneva. Any other colleagues? Personal explanation Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u68	Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! I take the floor for a personal explanation because part of Minister Taneva's speech was about my speech related to the Polish roads. First, the land is restored to real limits. We all know that, don't we? And this property is inviolable. Secondly, now the procedure in force says "massives for use', separately in the order is the Polish path. Why are we changing it? Why does the Polish road enter the arrays of use? Otherwise, everything else that has been said: ruminants, non-transparents, we will not go into details, or the procedure that has been improved with cosmetic changes can be accepted. But this is the essential.. the Polish road disappears, and it is public municipal property. Is that what we want to do? Excuse me, this way you insert it into an array of use and distribute it on a common basis with private, municipal, state land. That's what you're doing. Return to the old order that was accepted in April. This year this change has been adopted, we supported it. We supported that there should be a relevant legal basis for using the Polish roads and that contracts should be updated each year. But put into the array because it was hard for someone to separate it, I just don't understand it. However, you make the biggest mistake that you want to cross these paths as a whole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u69	A statement? You were just making a line? [[Reply from the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova.]] Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u70	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to express our attitude to the paragraph we are discussing. The land in Bulgaria has really been restored to real limits. There is a map of the restored property in which all Polish roads are outlined. There are arrays to be used. The latest change that we have made, with the amendment of the law on ownership and use of agricultural land, says that municipal councils can make decisions, conclude contracts, receive revenue and thus be the legal basis for the farmer to receive a subsidy. Tell me, what is the regional director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Agriculture, regarding the ownership of the municipal road, which is municipal property, that he can order in respect of the ownership of the municipality and include them in the arrays of use or not? Which is why we cannot support this text because the legal basis for this action is not available. Regarding the text we are discussing: is it withdrawn or not? So far, everyone has claimed that the text has been withdrawn. It is now understood that the text, anyway, is present in the report. Isn't that right, Madame Chairman? From this point on, the following question arises: firstly, the Committee on Agriculture, led by its President, who is living in the form of a reformer and is perhaps such, first, as regards the admission of such proposals concerning this Law; as to how much he is lobbyist or what; in terms of reporting in the minutes, and not less important, than delusions not only to the public through the media, but also to the MPs who are withdrawn, withdrawn? Mr. Hristov, I turn by name, perhaps you will take advantage of your right to a personal explanation: are these your reforms? Is that what the reformers are doing?! Maybe from here on out, the Reformation Block should start calling it the lobby block? [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u71	- What's the line? I won't. Personal explanation, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u72	Dear Mrs. Ahmedova, the Committee on Agriculture and Food is working completely openly. All citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria may attend its meetings. It is also nice for the Members of the National Assembly, including you, to attend meetings of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. [[Applause from RB.]] As far as the texts are concerned, when they have been tabled by MPs in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly, we cannot fail to examine them. Another question is whether they will be approved or not. Therefore, if the opposition comes to meetings regularly, perhaps some of the texts you do not like will not be approved.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u73	Any other MPs wishing to participate in the debate? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote § 13 in its version of the Additional Report. They voted 122 MPs: for 70, against 44, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We're going back to the main report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u74	There is a proposal from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... (1) Within 5 years of the entry into force of this Law the lands under art. 19th para. 1 of the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land shall be provided by the municipal councils only under the conditions of § 27, para. 2 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land (SG No. 62 from 2010) as well as for the implementation of technical infrastructure and other projects for which forced alienation is permitted under law. (2) Within 5 years of the entry into force of this Law the lands under art. 19th para. 1 of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land shall not be subject to other authorising transactions other than those referred to in para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u75	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 14 on the Commission report. Vote 116 MPs: 97 against 15, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u76	There is a proposal from the MP Rumen Zhelev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle, i.e. 4 is reflected in § 16. Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Zhelev, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Law on Forests (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43, para. 3 is created t. 4. "4." for the placing of moving sanitary and storage spaces necessary for aquaculture and related activities for sites registered in the integrated information system of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency to persons who are owners or have rights to use sites and facilities for breeding and farming of fish and other aquatic organisms, registered under art. 25 of the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture and have a permit under art. 46, para. 1, t. 2 of the Water Act for the duration of this permit, but not more than 10 years; the area provided may not be more than one decare. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) A new para shall be created. 3: In the case of rental of property for sports activities or provision of areas up to one decare, Alinea 1 shall not apply; (b) the current para. 3 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: For the vacant areas remaining after renting under para. 1 and 3, the order referred to in Article 3 shall apply. 43. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 sentence 2 is created: the person shall apply for purchase within one year of the entry into force of the act of change of purpose. (b) in para. 2 in the text before t. 1 after the words (c) the creation of para. 8, 9 and 10: The right of the person to purchase the changed property shall be exercised when: 1. the application for purchase has not been submitted within the period under para. 1 sentence second; 2. the selling price is not paid within 6 months of the entry into force of the order for the sale of land property. (9) In the cases under para. 8 The Minister of Agriculture and Food shall issue an order for the coverage of the property as a forest territory, which shall be communicated in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code. A copy of the order shall be sent to the State undertaking concerned, to the Regional Forest Directorate and to the relevant Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Office or to the Municipal Agriculture Office for the application of changes to the cadastral map or to the map of the restored property. Within 6 months of the entry into force of the order, the competent authority under the Code of Conduct in the territory shall revoke or amend the act establishing the relevant detailed planning plan. (10) Paragraph 1 shall not apply in the event of a change in the purpose of land use in forest areas for underground mining concessions. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 111 is In the case of forest areas which are operated and managed by a forest association under art. 8 shall not apply to the use of wood from forest areas. 183. PRESENT CECCA TSACHEVA: Statements under § 15? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 15 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: 91, Against 9, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u77	The Commission proposes to establish § 16 and 17: ......... 16........................................... (1) Land properties in forest areas whose purpose has been changed since 9 April 2011 until the entry into force of this law and for which the due price has been paid within the specified time limit shall be sold to the person at whose request the change of purpose has taken place. The person shall apply for purchase within one year of the entry into force of this Law. (2) The right of the person to purchase the changed property shall be repaid where: 1. the application for purchase has not been submitted within the period under para. 1 sentence second; 2. the selling price is not paid within 6 months of the entry into force of the order for the sale of land property. (3) In the cases under para. 2 The Minister of Agriculture and Food shall issue an order for the coverage of the property as a forest territory, which shall be communicated in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code. A copy of the order shall be sent to the State undertaking concerned, to the Regional Forest Directorate and to the relevant Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Office or to the Municipal Agriculture Office for the application of changes to the cadastral map or to the map of the restored property. Within 6 months of the entry into force of the order, the competent authority under the Code of Conduct in the territory shall revoke or amend the act establishing the relevant detailed planning plan. § 17. The forested and self-forested agricultural land under § 72 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the repealed Law on Forests (promise, SG No. 43...), for which no orders for their inclusion in the State Forest Fund have been issued until the date of entry into force of this Act and which have not been submitted to the municipalities under art. 19 of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land are included in the forestry territories by order of the Minister of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u78	Are there any speeches on the Commission's proposal for new § 16 and 17? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 16 and 17 on the Commission report. They voted 107 MPs: 98 against 9, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u79	Proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Plamen Petrov, the Commission does not support the proposal under this item. 2 and supports it on t. 1: "2." In § 20 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Renewable Energy Act (prom., SG No. 56 from 2015) the words "swept 1 July 2016' are replaced by "swept 1 January 2016'; The Commission proposes to establish § 18: .............................................................................. In the Law on Energy from Renewable Sources (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 18, para. 7 words..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u80	Statements? Mr. Dobrev, after him Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u81	Honourable Members, my speech on this point. 2 which is not supported by the Commission, and it is extremely important in plenary that we support this point. 2. It means that we will remove the latest preferential prices, i.e. those concerning the production of electricity from manure from 1 January 2016. I ask all Members of the National Assembly to pay attention and support the unsupported proposal in the Agricultural Commission in respect of this. 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u82	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u83	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! As early as September, along with colleague Valeri Simeonov, we proposed closing the door for manure biomass. We did not then receive the support of our fellow Members from the other parliamentary groups, but today we see that there is a very sensible proposal from a Member of the Parliamentary Group of GERB that goes in the right direction. Therefore, colleagues, I would like to call on you to vote all together and confidently because so far there have been 21 megawatts installed in installations. Another 64 megawatts are at a different stage of preparation. If all these 85 megawatts are installed, 7,000 hours on average per year's work and 340 leva. At the moment, it is over 200 million. lv. additional deficiency. That's 200 million. lv. additional deficit!? So we can choose the following thing between two options. One option is to close the door and prevent the risk of an increase in the price of electricity. The other option is, as colleagues of the committee have done and voted against this proposal, the door remains open and the risk of 200 million. lv. deficiency. I hope that it is possible, I think it is possible that colleagues from BSP will appear to vote with us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u84	Yeah, yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u85	I think it's possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u86	Yeah, yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u87	I think it is also possible to happen that there are colleagues from BSP who want tightening the rules. Because, see, what's the honest question? Why did we close the door for all the RESs, but left the biomass of manure? Is that fair? If Bulgaria has achieved the objectives of the European Union, if we have fulfilled the criteria, why have we closed the door for everyone, but left this for manure biomass? My fellow Members, I remind you once again that we had such a proposal in September, but it is not too late to do the right thing. I call on you to do the right thing together today and to eliminate one of the risks of increasing the price of electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u88	- What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u89	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My speech will be in the same direction, in the same spirit as the colleagues who spoke before me. I warmly appeal to you to support the main text of the Bill, not the Commission's decision, which has definitely been taken under lobbying pressure and interests. In this case, we are talking about a decision which was the second amendment of the Energy Act. At this time, we, with our colleagues from the Commission, from the Temporary Commission for Control and Assessment of the State of Energy, have asked the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for a reference, in fact, what capacities are we talking about? It was about the capacity of 18 megawatts, which were expected to grow to 30 megawatts. In the past 3 months, the power from the production of manure is already over twice as much, over 60 megawatts. Here's what happens when we give the opportunity to abuse, we give the opportunity to speed up the wealth of some people who, of course, have cooked their pies in advance. In this case, the right decision is what colleagues propose. I particularly congratulate Mr. Dobrev, who tabled the amendment in the Law, that he has the courage and dignity to now offer the opposite to reduce this deadline to 1 January 2016, and to end the opportunity with another looting of the already damaged Bulgarian energy. Vote like patriots! To prove that the only group that has a direct lobbying interest in this is DPS. Unite and vote! [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u90	- What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, there is no way after Mr. Simeonov's speech not to take the floor. Usually lobbying interests stand on the right side of the patriots. That proved itself a little while ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u92	Colleagues, I call on us to return to the substance of the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u93	That's basically it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u94	The lobbying thing won't clear it up till 11:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u95	Just a few minutes ago, we saw how the right-wing party, which proclaimed itself the right-wing bloc, behaved and defended only a few companies. Gentlemen on the right, to be right, you have to protect the entire business, not just a few companies, as with the Agricultural Land Act and the offshore law. Gentlemen patriots, in order to be called patriots, you must know every corner of Bulgarian land of which is owned and every piece of Bulgarian land is fertile, as you express yourself, must be protected by us, and here in Parliament. With regard to the RES Act, in February we also said that all of you here supported us that we should change precisely in terms of biomass the Law and in the recipe for the production of biomass electricity to take part at least 50% manure. Then we all decided together that this was the right thing to do, and that's why they're giving us a grant. That is why it gives a subsidy in the price of the Bulgarian state. The fertilizer and its use in the production of this energy is mandatory because the Nitra Directive obliges us. You know that in Bulgaria 15 million. The ton of manure, gentlemen, is not being used, and it's contaminating, so we'll be fined, maybe in a few months. This is early 2016, we will start paying fines in this regard. The only facilities that can process this waste are those of manure biomass. Therefore, let us allow the Bulgarian business and Bulgarian livestock farmers to deal with the problem of the Nitra Directive in this way. Let us give them the opportunity to save this period with what we voted on in June, 1 July 2016. That's why I suggest we keep the deadline. Let the deadline not be 1 January 2016 but be 1 July 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u96	Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u97	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm taking the duplicate to confirm strongly my request to you not to pay attention to direct lobbying statements, to the replacement of facts. Sorry, nitrogen directives, we've heard all these legends. I wonder what happened to the cattle in Bulgaria? [[Noise and lines.]] They're down to a million! Not to mention sheep. Now one kilowatt, a cow and a half, 300 chickens... Do you believe this stuff? I'm not gonna give you your name to give you a personal explanation. [[Radio.]] Leave that argumentation for the lackeys. Furthermore, in conclusion, I would call on anyone who speaks from this tribune to declare whether there is a conflict of interest to his brother, his father, his family, and then to take a stand, so I demand that we support the Import Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u98	Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u99	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The Bulgarian Socialist Party and the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria has always been consistent in voting on this issue, so any insinuations that try to be introduced have no soil. We will also support Mr. Dobrev's proposal to reduce the deadline for putting into service, knowing from his statement last time that once and for all the issue of renewable energy sources, such as introducing new preferential prices in the conditions of liberalisation of the market, for which I even asked Deputy Prime Minister Donchev a question yesterday, there will be no way in unison. Having new preferential prices and liberalization are two things that are incompatible. The second thing I would like to say to you is that, nevertheless, with great regret, we find that we are changing four laws again in one Law. And I would ask, Madam President, in the future, let us avoid these not quite normal legislative practices when we change thousands of other laws with one law at second reading. The third thing I would like to say to you is that we will ask, I do not know how to do it procedurally, but what the Commission proposes as a text to be adopted from the point of view of the amendments to the Energy Act plus what Mr. Dobrev proposed, that is to say we have the opportunity to accept Mr. Dobrev's proposal and what the Commission proposes as an amendment because we think this is the right way to formulate the problem. And the last thing I want to do is mess with Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u100	Please get to the point! Don't mess with me, I've got parliamentary control coming up, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u101	He called for us to vote as patriots. I will not call on you to vote as socialists, because you are clearly not from yesterday. We've seen the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u102	Mr. Ermenkov, I understand that you are doing as an amendment: not in the Renewable Energy Act, but § 20 of the Energy Act? [[Relations of MP Tasco Ermenkov away from microphones.]] However, it is not of this law, because what it says here is not in this law, but in the Energy Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u103	Yeah, yeah! That is exactly what I propose as an editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u104	It's a technical error, what editorial proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u105	I agree it's a technical mistake, but here, because Mrs. Karayancheva tells me they have an editorial proposal, I'll let her read it so she doesn't have to read it. I'm doing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u106	After the remarks to Mr. Ermenkov? I won't. Colleagues, until the beginning of parliamentary control, we must also watch the Car Transport Act. [[Noise and lines.]] Either I expect a proposal for an extension of the legislative part, or I ask in the debate to focus on the conclusion of the debate. It became clear that the text was supported in the room.. on the left, on the right. I don't see the point in any more speeches. [[Noise and lines.]] One minute all willing: Mr. Stoinev, Mr. Bayraktarov, Mr. Nastimir Ananiev. [[Loud noise, lines, calls.]] Our group has already spoken.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u107	Colleagues, I'm going to be a very short one minute. I promise. Since an ugly insinuation was made here by Mr. Dimitrov: Mr. Dimitrov, when you talk about the RES sector, you should look at the right side of the Chamber because this sector has never been supported by the Bulgarian Socialist Party. In fact, maybe I'm the only minister who's issued a zero year for joining renewable energy stations, so please. What's more, we were the only party that started...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u108	Mr. Stoinev, you're out of the debate right now. Explanations...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u109	I say that we will support this measure, we will support it, but BSP has always given priority to state-owned enterprises, nuclear energy, state-owned temes and has always been the policy that we have followed. That is why we have also taken action for the balancing market - precisely in order to reduce the deficit. Let me remind you when the first restrictions on high-efficiency energy production were adopted. Let's be honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u110	Mr. Stoynev, thank you. Mr. Bayraktarov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u111	Madam President, I think the debate is beginning to get ugly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u112	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u113	Moreover, honourable Members, to motivate my procedure. A moment ago, Mrs. Minister told you that there has already been a precedent for seeking mules and mules in Bulgaria. I hope that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u114	This is gonna raise the debate!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u115	I hope that you will realize that we should not allow a second precedent in Bulgaria to be widely searched for elephants because they produce the most feces. [[Radio, laughter.]] And, thirdly, I think every literate person knows that there is a property register that you can meet.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u116	And what's your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u117	My procedure is, for this reason, to preserve Bulgaria's dignity and to end the debates. Let's move on to a vote, and that is why we need to vote patriotically! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u118	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal. Vote 112 MPs: 104 against 7, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Plamen Tachev's proposal for changes, which is in two points. 1 is supported by the Commission... [[Noise and lines.]] The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 and supports it on t. 1, but of all those who have spoken in the debates so far, there is a call for support on the proposal on this point. 2. We are voting for the Commission's unsupported proposal, which has been called upon in this House to be supported. Vote 114 MPs: for 113, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Dobrev, you had a technical note on the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u119	Madam President, honourable Members! Thank you for your support of the proposal. Mr. Ermenkov rightly pointed out that editing is necessary. The Law on Renewable Energy Sources is wrong. It is from the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Energy. The signature in the parentheses is correct. All I ask is that the editorial amendment be put to the vote for the name of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u120	I shall put to the vote a change of the name of the law in which § 20 is situated. Technically, it's the mistake, colleagues. We vote. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 18. This is Mr. Tachev's supported proposal, after which there will probably be a new § 19. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. As this proposal of the Commission takes into account only the supported part of Mr. Plamen Tachev's proposal in the Renewable Energy Act, and we have just adopted the second part of his proposal in the Energy Act, there will already be a new § 19. The final texts will do that. We're listening, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u121	The Commission proposes § 19 of the Second Voting Report by IC. No 553-07-46 of 13 November 2015 should not be discussed and voted, as so on. 4 dropped out of § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u122	Statements? I won't. I vote on the Commission's proposal on the Commission's additional report of 26 November. We vote. Vote 112 MPs: 104 against 7, abstention 1. The proposal is adopted, and with this, at second reading and the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land. The next item is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR AUTOMOBILITY TRANSFERS.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u123	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after the contested texts in the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, I propose a very short and elegant text regarding the Law on Road Transport and I hope that we will not create so many debates. Name of the act: the Act for amendment of the Road Transport Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u124	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The name of the Law has been adopted according to the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u125	According to § 1, there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Dimitar Gorov and Georgi Turnovaliski. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 1 and propose the following version: ................................................................................... In the Final Provisions of the Law amending the Law on Road Transport in § 3 the words "one month after its promulgation in the State Gazette" shall be replaced by "from 1 April 2016."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u126	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Valkov. I hope it's an elegant statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I call on the Members of the National Assembly to vote on the original text made when amending the Law, as it is based on the opinion issued to us by the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration and as the main administration and control body of the taxi activity and the opinion that we have received from the transport unions, namely to postpone the Law by six months. In principle, the proposal that has been made in the Commission for three months is also a postponement, but we believe that it is more up-to-date to accept what is given by the administration and to comply with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u128	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Valkov, I beg you very much not to deceive Members of the National Assembly. The Commission stated twice that the period 1 April was not a problem and that they could fulfil it. Their opinion is that they support both 1 April and 1 July and perhaps 1 December. Regarding the opinion of the Transport Workers' Syndicate, it is a very interesting impression that this opinion comes three hours after the Commission's proposal for entry into force has been adopted on 1 April. And I don't see what the Transport Workers Syndicate has to do with specific deadlines to point out. This is a contract opinion that you apparently requested at 11:00 after the Commission has already taken a decision. So don't step on that point. The opinion of the Ministry of Transport, the Automobile Administration and the majority of the members of the Transport Commission was to be 1 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u130	Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Valkov, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u131	Ladies and gentlemen of the House. April 1st is just a proposal made without any argument. By the same logic, it could be February 1st or May 1st. Therefore, that the Automobile Administration has said that it can handle it within this period, it can manage perhaps within a shorter period, only that it must allocate additional resources from the one that has at present, as 11 thousand are the taxi drivers who must acquire the relevant competence and have the relevant document in order to become carriers. This, on the one hand. And on the other hand, you can have a conversation with the Transport Syndicate and find out that no one has spoken to anyone. He got the same day. I do not know when it has been received in the Commission or when it has been sent, but I think it can also be addressed by the President of the Commission on this report. Thank you and I call on you to vote for the original...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u132	The text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u134	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. To speak, the people's representative Grozdan Karadzhov. You have the floor, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to remind you in a few words that the previous amendment to the Road Transport Act has already entered into force. In this sense, a huge number had to be reregistered under the Law, we do not know exactly how much, but so far there are over 300 pending applications for registration of taxi carriers. The following problem is received in the Automobile Administration. On the one hand, Mr. Valkov was informed by letter that this could be done by 1 July next year, but in the Committee on Questions of Members of the National Assembly, it was stated that there is no problem that this period should be shortened on their part. The arguments by which such a reduction was requested are dictated by the following recital: the taxi transport industry has remained outside the perimeter for a very long time at any control. The large so-called taxi companies are rehired on the basis of one text from the Car Transport Act other companies. However, these companies do not have the quality of a carrier. Then the question arises: why do we need the figure of the carrier in the Law at all? And any complaint by citizens actually reflects that there is no effective punishment imposed on taxi carriers. On one side are the citizens, on the other side is the industry, which says it will not be enough time. She says she'll have enough time. I personally voted for the shorter term until 1 April because I believe that this is a good political signal from the National Assembly to show that we have the will to preserve the content of the change and not to make this a continual delay for some better times, when again perhaps it will be allowed in the Law to carry out transportation on a foreign name, but at its own expense. That's the text we've been writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadjov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll continue where Mr. Karadjov stopped. Indeed, we are currently facing the choice of whether to comply with the interests of citizens who use taxi services or to comply with a letter from a branch organisation that protects the interests of its own members. In any case, I have also spoken with the agency concerned, who also told me that its supervisor has confirmed that they can fully handle the task by 1 April. Any delay from now on will create the illusion, including in taxi drivers, that they are the all-powerful ones and can, when they want something, postpone it. Notice that although the Law has already entered into force, so far there are only 30 applications that are for re-registered. This means that they have no intention of re-registered.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u138	Three hundred.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u139	Trista, I'm sorry. Three hundred, but you know how many carriers there are. This means that they have no intention of re-registered and will only deal with attempts at lobbying pressure to extend the deadline now July 1st, then it will become December 1st to pass the summer season, then we will have to change the tires and something else and there will be some excuses for this to continue. I say we take April 1st, that's enough for three months, who's willing to do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u140	Four.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u141	There's three of them because we're in the middle of December, holidays are coming. In this situation, I think that the National Assembly should still be solidarityd with those who sent it here and not with any private and branch interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's text in its version, that is to say, it remains on the table from 1 April 2016 to make it clear to you what I am putting to the vote. There was no proposal for an editorial amendment to the Commission text. By 31 March, the Transport Commission will have time to deal with this issue. They voted 86 MPs: 31, against 1, abstention 54. The text hasn't been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u143	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u144	If this text is not accepted, the oldest is the result. If the text in this version is not accepted, the period that is in force under the Law.. to explain what is happening if you do not accept the text. Re-vote please, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose a re-voting procedure. The proposal that has been made is very good, approved by the Ministry, approved by the Automobile Administration. I think it is most serious to leave the text that has been approved by the Commission. So it's a re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u146	Revoting procedure. Vote 81 MPs: 79, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u147	'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u148	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the division.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u149	Paragraph 2 says that the Law returns with retroactive force so that there are no violations in this gap.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u150	They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The name of the section of the Final provision § 2 of the Commission report, as well as the entire bill, are adopted in a second vote. At 11:00 we continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u151	Colleagues, the sitting shall continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Written answers for service. Before I declare that there are no new requests for the period from 27 November 2015 to 3 December 2015. Written response from: - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Miho Mihov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the MPs Emil Raynov and Svetla Bachvarova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from MP Galya Zaharieva; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the MPs Mariana Boyadjieva and Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the MPs Georgi Kuchukov and Petar Kadiev; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Bozhinov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on four questions from the National Representative Philip Popov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov. Colleagues, there has been a change in the order for parliamentary control and its content. Mrs. Pavlova's participation is off the table. After the announcement of yesterday's programme, a letter came in because there are international commitments that arose at the last minute that Minister Lilyana Pavlova will not participate in today's control. We start with Meglena Kuneva. Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! My procedure is in the manner and in relation to your communication that you have just made. Madam President, there are questions addressed to Minister Pavlova by seven, eight MPs. Most of them concern the increase in the prices of the wineries, which concerns more than 80% of the Bulgarian citizens. If the first time the motive was that she was in China, the second time that she had a meeting at the Council of Ministers I think that the work of each minister is, firstly, to fulfil his constitutional obligations, as we have, to exercise control over the executive power here, from Parliament, from the parliamentary tribune, and then to carry out these international commitments. If this is going to continue this way in the future, please provide us with a free schedule of ministers so that we can put the questions in it and keep them up to date. We cannot put a question for three weeks. The wines will be printed, the majority of them will be sold and there is no one to tell the Bulgarian society why this is happening, why the price is rising and why they should pay a more expensive price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u153	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I'll give you Minister Pavlova's letter. Here you go. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u154	Dear Madam President, dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, dear Minister, honourable Members! I, too, asked the health minister more than four weeks ago. For unknown reasons, you, Madam President, are hiding it. One time, it wasn't in control...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u155	Colleagues, let's seriously talk! I'm not hiding anyone. For each one I correctly explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u156	Well, make these ministers, Madam President, come here and answer our questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u157	I have no authority and competence to monitor the international commitments of the ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u158	Because that's how we neglect constitutional rights and executive duties. I hope next time you can get Dr. Moskov to answer the question I asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u159	I hope so too. Thank you. Today Mrs. Meglena Kuneva will be the first to respond to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues. There is a question asked by the MPs Miho Mihov and Ivan Ivanov about providing independent international expertise on the consequences of and after military exercises of the polygon. We're listening to your question, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madame Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, in the area of the polygon "New village" between Slivenska and Yambol region, between the villages of Topolchane and Padarevo and the town of Straldzha and the village of Gradets are concentrated more than 10 thousand people in this region. Here continues the public debate on the purity of nature as a reflection of the military maneuvers carried out in preparation of the troops of Bulgaria and the Allied troops to maintain their fighting ability. The fear for the life and health of the population of the region is understandable as a consequence of the ammunition and ammunition used in the military trainings of the polygon. Opinions are made on the danger to the environment and to grown cultural plants and domestic animals because genetic disabilities are also found in the lands of dozens of settlements. Of course, the people here realise that the collective security system on NATO's plans strengthens the defence capacity of the EU countries. The armed forces of Bulgaria plan and participate annually in independent and multilateral exercises with allies troops and several dozen of them are held in the territory, airspace and the polygons of our country. Bulgaria's commitments as a member of NATO and the European Union, we do not question. However, our responsibility, above all, for the life and health of Bulgarian citizens obliges us, in view of the above, to address you as Deputy Prime Minister, following the policy in the activities of the Ministry of Defence and taking into account your solid international reputation, together with General Mihov, to raise the question: what measures will you take to ensure independent international expertise on the state of the area during the military exercises carried out in the field of the Polygon of the New Village, as well as on the consequences of the ammunition and support funds used by the military contingents involved in joint exercises, as well as in the conduct of independent, without the participation of the Bulgarian army in them? We trust that through you we will have a commitment from the Bulgarian government, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u161	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivan Slavov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u162	Dear Mr. National Representative! With you and Mr. Mihov, we have regular dialogue on this subject. I sincerely thank you for continuing to insist on these regular discussions. I understand that the question is addressed to me in my capacity as Deputy Prime Minister, co-ordinating and the work of the Ministry of Defence, but this is actually a very strong departmental competence. I wouldn't be surprised to share with you quite frankly that the information I'm about to provide you is information that I've requested from the Department of Defense. I don't have my own sources of information on this matter. This is the second time we have talked to you about this. It is clear, however, that the people of the polygon area of New Village are experiencing certain concerns and we are absolutely obliged to answer from the stands of the National Assembly frankly to this issue. The new village is a joint facility, as you said, and for each training and training agreements are signed, in which the obligations of the countries involved in environmental protection are also agreed. This time I'm going to try to shift the focus a little bit to the environment, not to the defense. Bulgaria, as a host country, provides the participating countries with information on the environmental rules that apply in the exercise. Our standards are pretty high, actually. The Bulgarian and American countries carry out periodic assessments of non-friendly behaviour. Permanent control shall be carried out before and after each event. Under the Agreement, the US forces financed an initial environmental assessment, the so-called "EIA', of all agreed facilities and sites. This study is considered as documenting a welded position. Twice a year, as before and after events where environmental damage is likely to occur, soil and water sources in the area shall be sampled and analysed in specialised laboratories. According to the concept of the Bulgarian Army for the Environment, additional studies were carried out, ours, Bulgarian, on the environmental indicators of the school polygon. So far, what I am informed about is that no deviations have been identified from the agreed norms and standards. I asked the Ministry of Environment and Water for information to be well prepared for your question. According to their data from inspections and monitoring of components Until now, the Ministry of Environment and Water has not received complaints and signals of pollution. And here is actually my invitation to you as politicians: tell the people you meet, let them, if they have such doubts, make personal complaints or signals to the Ministry of Environment and Water, so that they can directly receive a response from them. The data of the institutions do not confirm the existence of deviations, but with regard to the provision of international expertise on the state of the polygon "New village" (New village), the Ministry of Defence considers that such would be necessary if deviations from the established norms were found. That is, although we have some evidence to begin with, we can take this step, because people have a right, of course, to know if the indicators accidentally go away. However, the Bulgarian institutions are obliged to respond to the fears of the people of the region. I want to tell you that I signed and sent a letter to the Secretary of Defense yesterday and recommended the need for international expertise. I ask you to pass on to the people who have addressed you with such a request that this has been done on my part. I'll get you a copy of the letter. Let it be judged again in the name of the Bulgarian citizens and residents of the region to be sure of their health and life, I think we should always be on the side of the citizens when they have concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Mihov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u164	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Slavov and I, as involved with our voters in Slivensko and Yambolsko, are pleased with your answer, but allow me some comment, as you also stressed in this term of this National Assembly that this is the second time we have put this issue as a problem. You have rightly paid attention and I, too, to our viewers. I would like to address the most responsible that for any doubt, for any concern they can and should address not so much the Bulgarian institutions, but the Joint Commission, which was created after the signed Agreement on the use of the facility. And, notice, my dear viewers, our country here has a pass because in 2006 the Agreement was signed, but only in 2008 on the basis of the Basel Convention, is the additional agreement on environmental cleanliness and control. So, I agree with your response to all who we represent, but I would stress that the Bulgarian side in your person can systematically conduct control around the facilities, which will also be based on the experience of the Zmeevo polygon in order to establish calmness in the region. The second, more importantly, which is also related to your response, on a regular basis, at 3 months, and especially when there are large exercises held with international participation there, to make the international expertise on the requirement of this Joint Committee and to definitely end with a signed protocol and announcement in the media from the region. Only this will actually bring comfort and appropriate use of the facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u165	Thank you, dear General. Mihov. You're disowning your right to dodge. We should thank Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the questions asked to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance. The first one is from the MPs Mihail Mikov, Dora Yankova and Manol Genov regarding the organization of snow cleaning and landfilling of border crossing points on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Our question is about the organization of snow-cleaning and shipping of border crossing points on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Dear Minister, with effect from 21 August 2015 with the amendments to the Law on State Property and the Ordinance on border crossing points snow-cleaning, shipping, cleaning and road marking of border crossing points in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is an obligation of the Director of the Customs Agency. Our question to you is: why has there not been an open tender procedure for these services to date? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u167	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Minister Goranov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u168	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, Mrs. Jankova, I inform you that before the district managers have performed the actual transfer of the property allocated to border checkpoints, buildings and facilities in the border crossing areas with complete documentation, the Office of Customs and Customs would not be able to conduct an open procedure for the award of a public contract for the provision of snow-cleaning and shipping services at the same points. The deadline for the transmission expired on 24 November 2015. However, knowing, in the meantime, the responsibility of the entrusted obligations as well as the seriousness of the consequences that would have occurred if immediate action were not taken to award the waste and snow-cleaning activities, the Customs Agency announced and conducted a negotiated procedure without a notice. For the implementation of maintenance and cleaning activities in the areas of the border crossing and public use sites in customs, service personnel under Decree No 66 of the Council of Ministers of 1996 have been appointed. This staff has been assigned to all points. In view of the fact that the negotiated procedure carried out, the contracts concluded as a result of its implementation, respectively, have the character of a temporary decision to carry out the activities entrusted, within a short period of time after the district managers carry out the actual transfer of the property, a technical specification will be prepared and an open procedure announced within a short period of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u169	Thank you, dear Minister. A line? People's representative Dora Yankova. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u170	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, we have put the question this way because we know that the checkpoints are the entrance of Bulgaria, in parallel with the Bulgarians, leaving the country and the people who enter Bulgaria, draw conclusions as to what Bulgaria is like from the first meeting.................................................................................................................................................. We have a great deal of concern about what you said. You've made an award. Through parliamentary control we will ask you again, after the public procurement has come out, how much money have been spent, have they been spent properly, have you exercised control together with the Customs Agency? In parallel with this, our insistence is to bring order and the Customs Agency to basically manage the points because, yes, they are the property of the state, we have delegated to them the right to handle them, you also, so that the country can actually give a European person and can at least the entrances of Bulgaria to be a showcase for the entry with self-esteem in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u171	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. For the duplicate, the word is Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Yankova, if your question is dictated not so much by public procurement as by the care of the status of the checkpoints, then we are talking about the same thing. The decision of the summer to centralise the care of the appearance and management of border crossing points in the Customs Agency and not, as previously, of the district managers in which the relevant crossings are located, is generally good because it strengthens responsibility and coordination in carrying out these activities. In this sense, I am sure, and this is the government's belief that the status of the points in the winter of 2015 is much better than what has been so far, at least because you already have a minister to ask whether this activity is being carried out correctly and to seek responsibility for the conduct of this policy, and that is the Minister of Finance who is also the Head of the Customs Agency. Of course, I am not running away from the responsibility of presenting you with correct information on how the award went. According to the data we have, over the years, there have been contracts with questionable appropriateness, which I hope will be overcome in the case of centralised procurement and that we can take into account an overall improvement of the status of the points in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u173	Thank you, dear Minister. The second question is from the MP Rumen Gechev on the terms of the sale of government securities for 50 million euros in November 2015. You have the floor, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Goranov, on 20 November 2015 the settlement of government bonds for 50 million euros with a maturity of 2035 was completed. According to the Ministry of Finance, the achieved profitability is 3,987% and the acquisition price is 88,514% discount from the denomination. However, the market analysis shows that in the period 13 November, 20 November this year, i.e. from the moment of booking to their settlement, the price of the securities (sales) was above 91.5%. This price guarantees a yield of 3,7% and not 3,987%. In this regard: what forced you to negotiate confidentially with a global investor on the realization of securities with a relatively small volume of 50 million euros instead of taking advantage of the advantages of broad and strong market competition that would lead to more favourable conditions of the deal for the Bulgarian State? Why are the other investors isolated, and what led you to the unwarranted conclusion that no one else would offer better conditions than private debt placement? Do you not think that the Bulgarian banks and other financial institutions, which have problems with the realization of significant financial resources, are unjustly isolated? That is, it is not negotiated, the opinion of the Bulgarian banks is not asked and the negotiations are conducted with only one investor, according to the information of the Ministry of Finance, instead of really European practice............................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u175	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. Minister Goranov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u176	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Gechev, your analysis is incomplete and I will allow myself to move along the edge of the Rules to give you all the information on the subject you are commenting on. As a result of the policy of direct purchases of debt securities by the European Central Bank in the period March 2015 the yields of the countries and a number of other debt securities in the Eurozone, as well as the swap rates used by market participants to assess the so-called It was these conditions that characterized the market environment in the second half of March 2015 which was chosen as a time for issuance by the Republic of Bulgaria of a triple tranche of eurobonds of 3.1 billion. Euros. Taking advantage of the exceptionally favourable market environment at the time, the government decided to raise a larger volume than the previously planned resource. In this way, these transactions have achieved funding prices, which are the lowest historically achieved by the country on a market basis in the last 25 years. Let me remind you that there were also arguments at the time that Bulgaria should not issue one such large volume, but distribute it to two transactions, which was supposed to sell debt in the autumn, with the expectation that better yields would then be achieved. The development of the markets since then has proved, however, the precision of our choice of the moment to issue the eurobonds in March 2015. In the structuring of the three tranche eurobonds in 2015 only the volume of the 20-year papers was below 1 mrd. EUR, as this was the longest-term bond placed by Bulgaria on the international markets. International investors have requirements for the liquidity of their assets, often the limit of 1 billion. EUR is considered a threshold below which a premium for illiquidity is required. Adding the volume of this issue increases its liquidity, which makes our country more recognizable than investors issuers and sets a more reliable benchmark at this point on the country's debt curve. The more liquid volume of this issue will favour the positioning of future yields if new Eurobonds with an original maturity of more than 10 years are proposed in the future. I also stress that an option for subsequent reopening of the issue is laid down in the documentation provided in the National Assembly at the beginning of the year when the treaty was ratified, which enabled new loans on international capital markets. The restructuring operation carried out on 13 November 2015 is of the type of private debt placement which is a standard instrument for government debt management. This approach is not a precedent in the practice of the Ministry of Finance in debt management. I would like to remind you that in December 2013, the Republic of Bulgaria carried out a private debt placement under German law by accident, with interest rates on these loans being higher than the yield achieved at the same time on the domestic market of the securities. Unlike previous foreign debt-taking transactions to international markets, no commission remuneration was paid at the reinvention of the 20-year eurobonds of "Goldman Sax." Reopening income on 13 November amounts to 3,987%, as the increase compared to March is due to an increase of 67.3 basis points, 20-year interest rate soap and a minimum increase of 5 basis points per spray. The yield achieved and therefore the price is market and the budget is not damaged in any way. The pricing process for the disposal of debt on international markets is not defined on a competitive basis as the internal market auctions but includes a certain sovereign spread to the average interest rate swap. A premium for a new issue is added to this value, which depends mainly on the macroeconomic indicators and the issuer's credit rating, as well as the state of expectation for the development of international capital markets. Moreover, the over-opening yield is comparable to issuers at the end of October 2015. 20-year eurobonds from Romania, which, unlike us, has an entirely investment credit rating. Regarding the claim that the State could achieve more favourable terms of the transaction, I would like to point out that Bulgaria receives regular information about the state of international capital markets, the profitability and the maturity at which it could be financed. The information provided clearly shows that the State was financed at market levels. Last but not least, the current low liquidity level of debt securities nominated in euro on international markets for all sovereign issuers should also be taken into account. This is also a direct effect of the non-conventional monetary policy in the Eurozone, which is discussed as a problem at the level of the Council of Finance Ministers of the European Union. This low liquidity also creates prerequisites for another important feature of the markets today. The prices observed on the screens of various electronic trading platforms are largely indicative quotes diverting from prices in real transactions. In other words, the prices of the sellers, as quoted by you, are different from the prices of the transactions actually entered into. There are also other factors on the markets that in the current situation can lead to rapid and sharp price changes of the relevant assets... both in real transactions and in the levels of........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As a result of regulatory changes to global banking institutions, which are the usual sovereign debt market makers, the quantities of securities announced for trading are often extremely small. Therefore, if volumes of a real transaction occur, which in some cases exceed more than 50 times the standard quantities announced, prices may change sharply. These conditions are specific to each particular transaction. Therefore, it is misleading and, in my opinion, it is wrong to make direct price comparisons and yields between different sources of information, without taking into account all pricing factors in their entirety and complexity, as well as without distinguishing between the In conclusion, I would like to inform you that the transaction carried out on 13 November was not initiated by the Ministry of Finance, but is a result of an investment interest of a global foreign investor. Until the reopening of the bond in the Ministry of Finance, no concrete proposals and offers have been received by Bulgarian investors to reopen any of the bonds issued on the external markets. The Ministry of Finance shall not exclude further future re-openings of this and other emissions when assessing the appropriateness and optimisation of the price and sources of public funding.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u177	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor Gechev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman! My dear colleague, I am not pleased with the answer. It was accurate as parameters on the international market, but we all know that one is the international market, another is the position of each country, and Bulgaria is in good positions because of the indicators that still support it. Secondly, we didn't understand how you realized this was the best deal? It is well known that the use of private placement occurs usually when debt is redeemed and not when new emissions are being sold. In this regard, a supplementary question arises. By saying that this is a practice of the European Union, Mr. Minister of which countries? Let's just say that in the last three years, they have provided private distribution of new emissions, but which countries of the European Union have had such practice? Secondly, who is this global investor? Because here there was a contradiction in your response. You said no one was interested in this issue. So how do you say when you haven't announced?! And how exactly did this global investor get interested?! Because many experts claim that it may be the reason this investor is in short positions with government securities from Bulgaria, it has carried out this is a hypothesis of speculative transactions and now it should realize its deal and seek urgent government securities from Bulgaria. Who is this global investor who trades and realizes the Bulgarian debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u179	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. Mr. Minister, you've run out of time for your doppelganger when you answer. Mr. Mikov has the floor for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, honourable Members of the House! At the opening of this session by our parliamentary group, we turned to parliament with a declaration that we wanted to draw the attention of all MPs and the government and those who are not part of the coalition for the people but participate in the government and support it when necessary and also of the opposition parties to a problem on which the future of Bulgaria depends. We are talking about the demographic crisis, about the speed at which the Bulgarian nation is melting, about the increasing loss of our nation's ability to reproduce itself at those rates, which will give perspective for the future of the country for more than several decades. At the end of the year, after more than a year of management of the right and two restrictive budgets with several updates, the situation is very difficult and disturbing. Because demographic policy cannot be done with right-wing measures. Today the Bulgarians are decreasing. In recent years Bulgaria has decreased by 40 thousand people annually. Every year, a town like Kyustendil disappears. At this rate Bulgaria decreases by 110 people per day, by 4.6 people per hour. If this is not changed, in 10 years the country's population will melt to 6 million and 600,000 people. Social payments are frozen because at the birth of a first child and this year the amount of payment was frozen. The payments for a third child have increased minimally, but what young man will set out to draw a perspective in front of him in these low incomes?! Today the Bulgarians are ageing and Bulgaria is one of the countries with the lowest birth rate of the Member States of the Union. In 2014, the birth rate was 9.4 times, with an average of 10.4 per thousand for the European Union. And it can't be otherwise, since the state is not pursuing any policy to stimulate birth rates. Bulgaria has the highest mortality rate among all Member States in the European Union. In 2014, the mortality rate was 15.1 per thousand, which was 4 times higher than the European Union average. In our country, eight out of every thousand born children are not one year old. This is nearly twice as high as the European Union average. It can't be otherwise in a country that has an extreme market policy in healthcare. Youth migration processes continue until 30 years and further enhance the nation's aging trend. Because the pride of low taxes and low incomes kills the prospect of the development of the qualified young people of Bulgaria, because the open European Union gives them much more opportunities for income and for normal life for them, their families, their children. The economic development of Bulgaria is also threatened. Less and less Bulgarians have access to healthcare because you, from the ruling right, are conducting an absurd reform in terms of human rights and modern standards, according to which people in Bulgaria are already divided into socially significant and socially irrelevant. You have money, you get treatment, you don't have money, you wait. Permanently isolated from the healthcare system are all who for one reason or another have obligations. Access to treatment has fewer and fewer people, but the health budget, which has increased by over 1,000 per cent over 20 years, remains the same over 4 billion per year. There is no reason to be proud that the health budget has not been reduced since the people for whom it will be spent are considerably less "hundreds of thousands less" than before. The budget for next year reproduces the bleak status quo, the few rich ensure their health, the players in the public procurement procedures are provided, but all this happens on the back and at the expense of millions of Bulgarian citizens. From there come the high mortality rates, with which Bulgaria is the unfortunate champion of Europe. Bulgarians do not receive the necessary education. This year more than 13 thousand Bulgarians did not leave in the first grade because they are outside Bulgaria. A few more tens of thousands of students cannot continue primary and secondary education for the same reasons because we lack perspective and seek their chance outside Bulgaria. Separately, 20% of preschool and school children do not attend school at all, and the share of early leaving the system is one of the highest in the European Union. The number of students who stop studying in the country is increasing due to their departure abroad. They are an average of 26 percent of those who have left in the last few years. The most common reasons leading to school dropout are the result of economic emigration of parents abroad, low standard of living in some families, not including in the system of preschool education and preparation. In the last three years alone, 55 public and municipal schools have been shut down and transformed within what we call the optimization of the school network. The process is extremely worrying, which requires analysis and revision of policy, because municipalities have no money. However, next year's budget provides for a sustainable reduction in education funds by 8.5 million a year and a shift of state money and private schools, because profit can be made there. Why are we shutting down public and municipal schools when we are directing public resources into private schools?! In Bulgaria, the preparation for school is relatively the most expensive in all of Europe. It takes 338 BGN for the originals, and for the higher classes not less than 488 BGN. How will they afford these amounts all those several hundred thousand working poor to whom today's government has taken away the opportunity to recover its income tax? Why didn't you want any aid to be provided for the poor parents of the children after first grade in the budget for next year? Otherwise, the process of dropping out of school will continue. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Dear Ministers! Severe demographic problems are the result of failure to fulfil the main constitutional functions of the state and ensuring social security, reducing social inequalities. In your right-wing management, the state abdicates its obligations and has now shrunk its redistributive activity to a level of 37 " 38%' when, on average, in the European Union, this level is 10 " 12% more'. In times of crisis, the restriction of the reassignment function of the state leads only to more poverty and inequality, to social exclusion, but does not solve any problem because the demographic crisis reaches a level where it is already becoming a threat to state and democratic order in Bulgaria. And this threat becomes more and more tangible when a government and a ruling majority do nothing. I remind you that the National Assembly, on our proposal, adopted a decision requiring the Council of Ministers by the end of November to submit short-term and medium-term measures to combat the demographic crisis. It's December 4th, and there's no memorial. The social minister only mentions that he will make a strategy, but when this strategy is implemented, there may not be any citizens left to enjoy it in Bulgaria. Again, demographic policy cannot be done with right-wing measures. In the budget adopted these days, there is no solution to the causes and consequences of the demographic crisis, to the reduction of population, to poverty, to unemployment, to inequalities, to the lack of perspective, to economic uncertainty and extremely acute regional and territorial imbalances. This is irresponsible majority and government management. It shows how little today the government is excited about the problems of Bulgaria. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Where is this justification for measures with the demographic crisis in the newly adopted budget? On the contrary, a budget of the stability of finance, and a budget of extreme instability of the demographic perspective in front of Bulgaria. In this environment we from BSP left Bulgaria state strongly: the only social corrective of this government is the interest of millions of Bulgarians who want another future for Bulgaria. All parties who call themselves nationally responsible should be involved in urgent measures to overcome the demographic catastrophe in front of Bulgaria. We from BSP left Bulgaria have and propose such measures. We also offered them at the adoption of the budget. They were mildly rejected by the majority. From now on we will continue because this is the interest of Bulgaria and the millions of Bulgarian citizens who want to have a future here in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u181	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB, the word has the popular representative Georg Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u182	Is there a power of attorney? Is it authorized by the management of GERB? There is no member of GERB's leadership in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u183	You have the floor, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, the fact is that the fight against the demographic crisis must be something that excites every responsible political party, however, I stress: responsible. What are the components of combating the demographic crisis? Higher birth rate and lower mortality rate. A higher birth rate What should each family have in order to be encouraged to have more than one child or to have a child at all? Security, guaranteed work, guaranteed sustainable development of your profession. How does that work? Through a working economy. How do we have a working economy? Through developed infrastructure. Here we return to the question of whether infrastructure is a self-target and whether infrastructure is a matter of populism? No, infrastructure is what guarantees the development of the state in a positive way. How does a left-wing party develop the quality of life? Through social measures and spending money he doesn't have. How does a left-wing party navigate social policy so that it is only an instrument for winning elections? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] The increase and swelling of social costs must not go through the bankruptcy of the state and through the introduction of the state into a debt crisis should not go either by introducing the state into a deficit, which was only a year and a half ago. Less mortality. How? Better health care. What does the scorned right-wing government do? Health reform, a new Health Act, improving the quality of health institutions. What were you doing a year and a half back, with pyrogoves and all kinds of other, an unknown health minister? What was the quality of healthcare then? When we talk about a health institution we must realize that it should be, first of all, quality, second of all, it should bring health to people. We should not talk about the fact that a health institution should be just one way to absorb, to steal money, should not be one way in which the money should flow only through the health system.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u185	It must be accessible.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u186	Education. One hundred and fifty million more for education provided for in this budget 2016. One hundred and fifty million! Speculation with numbers, lies are an instrument of political frustration. Then when there are no arguments, then when there are no political ones, then you start talking in false numbers, then you start talking in fiction. [[BSP LB.]] Demographic crisis does not fight when you send young people into emigration. And let's just look at the people who are outside the country. Who voted for the left BSP party? What are BSP's achievements in voters outside Bulgaria? None. Where were the social measures, where were the BSP's proposals? In boxing matches, in sparring. The Bulgarians do not believe that and the Bulgarians showed it a month ago! And the result is really obvious. The social proposals made by BSP, those developed in left-wing policy, are obviously unfamiliar with the Bulgarian voters. Obviously, Bulgarian voters are betting on having a responsibility, to have a way of spending money through a minimal distribution through the budget when it is clear how these funds are spent, and when it is clear what they are spending on. Then, when these funds are invested in a real economy, when they are invested in job creation, then only Bulgarian citizens can have security, then they can only give birth to children, then they can stay in the country! But then, when you send young people into emigration, when you send them to flee, and when the most young people have left the country during left-wing, then you have no right to talk about combating demographic policy, then you have no right to talk about demographic crisis, you have no right to blame those who are trying to deal with the consequences of evil left-wings! That's why the left-wing policy in Europe is crashing! It is therefore the right-wing governments that dominate governance in Europe! Therefore because the left is demagogy; therefore because the left does not offer real working mechanisms; therefore because the left is hidden behind some populist promises, behind some promises that he knows he cannot fulfill! And when he's in power, it shows up and it crashes, it gets shot down by thousands of protesters on the streets! Then the left is hiding behind occupations, then the left is hiding behind parliament.. blocked, then the left resorts to insolence, then when then the right government tries to remove these malicious influences, then when we have to work for this, the state can actually work and then when the state needs to be restored! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u187	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Any other affidavits? I won't. We move on to the third issue by the MP Georgi Svilenski about continuing non-compliance with the state's financial commitments to carry out public tasks in 2014 and 2015 carried out by state enterprises. You have the floor, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Minister Goranov, the State Enterprise of Transport Construction and Recovery is created by the Law on the Conversion of Construction Forces, the Forces of the Ministry of Transport and the Forces of the Committee on Postal and Telecommunications in State Enterprises. The main object of the company is construction, maintenance and restoration of transport sites, design, construction, repair and entrepreneurial activities in the field of transport communications. In accordance with art. 4, para. 2 of the Law cited above, the State-owned company "Transport construction and recovery" are entrusted with the following public tasks: maintaining readiness and carrying out activities and tasks under the state wartime plan; secondly, maintaining readiness and carrying out tasks under the national and regional plans for carrying out rescue and emergency recovery works; thirdly, carrying out tasks on the country's territorial defence. With art. 38, t. 3 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Minister of Information Technology and Communications have been replaced as obligations the construction and maintenance of transport sites for defence needs, as well as the provision and maintenance of wartime capacities in the transport network. The implementation of these obligations is carried out by the State-owned company "Transport Construction and Recovery" for which the undertaking develops the necessary plans In addition to this Article, Article 3 is replaced by the following: 63, para. 3, p. 1 of the Law on the Protection of Disasters of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications are assigned tasks to maintain ready forces and funds and to ensure the participation of its subordinate structures as an integral part of the Single Rescue System in accordance with the National Disaster Protection Plan adopted by Decision No 973 of 29 December 2010 of the Council of Ministers. One of the activities in the protection of the population in the event of a disaster is carrying out urgent emergency reconstruction works.................................................................................................. 19th para. 1, t. 13 of the Law on the Protection of Disasters.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u189	The question, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u190	If I delay the time, please be in the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u191	In the line, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u192	In relation to the provisions of art. 63, para. 1, t. Art. 3 and Art. 19th para. 1, t. 13 of the Law on the Protection of Disasters The National Plan for the Protection of Disasters has repeatedly and by name referred to the State-owned company Transport Construction and Recovery, entrusting it with specific obligations and responsibilities. The company is specialized in carrying out the following activities: reconstruction of the railway road by means of mechanized mode of repair and ongoing maintenance of the railway road; excavation works for the construction of land sail for new railways; mechanized laying of a new railway road with subsequent financing and levelling; construction of artificial facilities along the newly built railway lines; construction of new railway stations and reconstruction of already existing railway stations, construction of new tram, trolleybus lines and reconstruction of existing lines; electrification of new and existing railway lines, construction of railway and telecommunications systems. It should also be taken into account that the obligations of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications in the field of the organisation of emergency recovery works in critical situations in rail transport are also laid down in the National Programme for Disaster Protection 2014 In accordance with art. 7 of the abovementioned Law, the activities of state-owned enterprises for the performance of their public tasks are financed by funds from the Republican budget under conditions and by order set by the Council of Ministers. The implementation of the tasks of the state wartime plan, the National Disaster Protection Programme and the National Disaster Protection Plan is also financed by the state budget. The State-owned enterprise Transport Construction and Recovery is the only one in the country that stores assembled and depreciated constructions for short-term and temporary reconstruction of railway bridges as well as the undertaking has a unique disaster response technique, accidents and accidents. The value of the stored equipment and property is approximately 43 million. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u193	You're 30 seconds out of line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u194	The maintenance crews are formed by the relevant specialists in the peaceful structures of the state enterprise. Dear Minister, in 2014 you stopped paying for the performance of these public tasks and for 2016 there is no money at all. My question is: why did you do so not to pay the amounts for the year 2014 - 2015, 2016 - not if this enterprise is carrying out its tasks, i.e. the work that was ordered, is completed and you do not want to pay it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u195	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Minister Goranov, please come in for an answer and a duplicate at the same time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u196	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House! Whether you deliberately or accidentally miss out on the only problem of these two enterprises....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And all those grounds that you quoted in your State Tasks Exhibition from the Law, which I have quoted, have been dropped. They don't exist. I am curious, even in 2013 and 2014, when you had the opportunity to have a majority and manage the processes, why didn't you ask that question? The law's been revoked. And I, as Minister of Finance, cannot include in the budget any expenditure which is not supposed to or is not required on the basis of a good, legal basis. Due to the lack of legal basis in both 2014, as you correctly quote, in 2015 and 2016 there is no provision for these funds. Yes, a similar problem with these structures is what I'm going to call them because of their unclear legal status. But it's not so much a question to the Ministry of Finance as it is to the board of directors and the Minister of Transport. If the Law provides for a special status of these units and commitments by the state, we will fulfil it. We have a legal vacuum right now. However, I would like to reassure you that the good management of these enterprises at the moment and their inclusion in a number of activities carried out on a commercial basis enables them to maintain viable and sustainable their functions and to be in a satisfactory financial condition. In this sense, if it is subsequently assessed and in the future that the structure of these units must be shaped on a commercial basis or re-established on the principle of state-owned enterprises, because, I repeat, the Law has been repealed, they are currently in suspended status, then we are ready to discuss again the financial framework of their actions. However, I assure you again that, for one reason or another, with the active management by their principal, the financial situation of these companies is satisfactory, and the functions currently carried out as companies, state-owned enterprises with a devoid of legal basis for their existence and non-transformation into commercial ones are at a satisfactory level and the property of the State included in their capital has not been damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u197	Thank you, dear Minister, for your reply and for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions asked to the Minister of Education and Science. Todor Tanev. The question is from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova on the New Rules of Procedure of the Fund. Professor Bachvarova, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Mr. Tanev! My question is related to the published Rules of Procedure of the Fund. It was put to public discussion and the public discussion ended on 25 November. In the reference I made yesterday, I saw that it has not yet been accepted, has not been published as an official document by the Ministry of Education. Agreeing that new regulations were needed, agreeing with the fact that he has quite detailedly written a number of procedures that are necessary in order to enable the Research Fund, respectively, to work, especially after the unfortunate session 2012, when there was, you know, a serious problem with funding scientific projects, however, I am confused by some substantial changes that are proposed in the regulations and they are linked in several directions. First of all, the prohibition, the participating researchers, assistants, PhD students to receive payment in connection with the implementation of the projects. I can classify this as an outrage from the point of view that, you know, in the systems, especially the Bulgarian Agricultural Academy, since 2010, wages have been negligible and equalized to the salaries of the lowest skilled labour. The desire of the Ministry to limit payment on these projects, which was previously, creates extremely difficult to implement quality projects. The second thing, which is also perplexing from the point of view of the Fund's Rules of Procedure, is the opportunity to apply again non-governmental organizations that do not have the relevant scientific capacity, but have the capacity to be flexible enough to attract collectives. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The second question is about how will you overcome the influx of these NGOs to participate in the competition procedures?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Dear Professor Tanev, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u200	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Professor Bachvarova! The work on the new rules began a long time ago, years ago. Especially it was activated in 2014. Its writing in the current version began in August and in it the main author was Prof. Weyselov, who is the manager of the Executive Board, and the head is currently under the supervision of the deputy minister, is prof. Kostadinov. The project is based on the current legislative base. In any case, what we are proposing has great advantages over what we have found, which has been reasonably suspended and has not been co-ordinated by the Ministry of Finance. At the moment, the new rules create yet clearly defined and concrete sustainable rules and procedures for the operation of the fund. I would add much greater autonomy, by choosing his own bodies, now almost without any interference from the Ministry. We have made sure that there is more than the standard minimum of guaranteed transparency instruments in decision-making and independence. Conditions have been created for financing the best scientific projects based on objective evaluation of project proposals by the most competent independent national and international valuers. In the management and operational work of the fund are only leading scientists from the country. That is, they have a very large autonomy from this moment on. We believe that this fund has yet to develop in the direction of either a government or an executive agency at the Ministry, taking over the second one as our policy, but we have not yet discussed it. It is true that in art. 41 of the Project states that scientists and collectives of scientists from established scientific organizations and legal entities who carry out scientific and research activities and distribute resources from them through teaching activities, scientific forums and scientific publications in accordance with the legislation in force can participate in the Fund's competition. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I don't think this in any specific way cuts out the ability of young scientists to participate in the work, provided that these are collectives that involve people with higher experience and self-esteem. I can't finish right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u201	Thank you, Minister Tanev. Professor Bachvarova, come in for your line. Professor Tanev, you can finish your thought within the pit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, you really didn't answer my two specific questions by praising you that the rules are generally detailed in writing procedures. After all, I had two specific questions. Firstly, the pay is greatly reduced and young scientists have no incentive to participate in scientific projects, because you will not only limit them to pay, but at the same time you will develop a methodology as to how much they should receive. With regard to the question of transparency of procedures, the question is: what is the funding of the Fund for Research? In all European countries, it finances fundamental research and hardly allows the development of any applied products. You have the sentence in the Rules that there will be prototypes. Mr. Lukarski has the Competitiveness Programme, there are innovations where the business he wants, applied organizations, can make a prototype. But to allow an 18 million fund to develop prototypes means that you are once again searching for the door, opening the door for the non-governmental sector to continue draining the Fund, as it was in 2012, when you know that huge resources were absorbed from NGOs in this direction. And the other thing. Again, your Rules say that the Executive Board may develop a procedure for requirements for scientific capacity. It can't be, who can understand it? So, I apply, we gather three people, I hire five people from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, and I already have a scientific capacity. And the Fund may not require my capacity or any activity in that direction. Otherwise, we welcome that you have worked on the activities or the Rules of the Fund, but make sure that these things are refined so that we have the maximum absorption of the funds for fundamental research and these researches that are entitled to apply, to receive their remuneration for this. Otherwise, we ignore absolutely all the rules of someone's work, and nothing gets for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u203	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Here you are, Minister Tanev, for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u204	Professor Bachvarova, I will be completely honest as usual. I understand your concerns. We have not worked for the Rules of Procedure to create an opportunity to drain the Fund and whatever it is called, as it has been so far. Your notes came either on the last day or after, but on time. Before we sign these Rules, I will mean, I will talk to my colleagues, he is leaving for coordination with the Ministry of Finance, we have a few days to do so, because the new session should be launched. I hope that what with your group and colleagues who are absolutely well-meaning by the guild, as they say, will be able to do something better. So far, I've had enormous concerns and we keep having them, please understand us, with school education. We want things to go through there with the first three standards. We have, of course, a problem with the law on higher education, which will actually lead us. This rulebook seems to be ahead of the Higher Education Act. That's what I'm telling you most frankly. This Law is better than it was before. Perhaps, I hope that in Brussels and the Ministry of Finance will approve it. I hope so!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u205	Thank you, Professor. Todor Tanev, Minister of Education and Science, for participation in today's parliamentary control. Two questions will be answered by Mr. Bozhidar Lukarski, Minister of Economy. The first question is from the National Representative Metodi Andreev on sending a notification to the European Commission about the installation of measuring instruments to the producers of alcohol and cigarettes. I'll ask Mr. Andreev to stop talking on the phone and come to the stand to ask the question. Mr. Andreev, come in for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u206	I'm sorry. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister! It's about a question that has its history, and I'll finally say it. The background is that since the end of last year the parliament adopted an amendment and an addition to the Law on excises and tax warehouses. In accordance with art. 4 t. 55 The installation of appliances was to be carried out in the companies producing alcohol and cigarettes, we are talking about spirits and cigarettes, which can more precisely control production and control the payment of excise duty by the producers concerned. It turns out, however, that under Directive No 9834/EC of the European Commission, there must be a prior notification from the European Commission. That's when this procedure started. About a month ago, there was a question here asked by my colleagues to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov and he said that this procedure has been initiated by the Ministry of Finance since the beginning of the year, with the notification protocol sent by the Ministry of Economy being completed by the Ministry of Finance. It had to describe exactly what the appliances would be, what the measuring technology would be, including software development, as this is extremely important for the notification itself. My specific questions are two: when was this notification form received in the Ministry of Economy by the Ministry of Finance, since after you sent it to them, they filled it out and sent it to you? If this notification protocol has been received, completed, of course, in the way I explained, has it been sent to the relevant institutions in the European Union? If it's not, when will it be sent?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u207	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Minister Lukarski, please come in and answer Mr. Andreyev's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u208	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Andreev, at the beginning I will explain to you a little bit the procedure for notification, which is carried out only at the stage of the project. Each Member State shall notify all draft regulatory acts which constitute technical regulations within the meaning of a Directive. The notification procedure shall have a three-month waiting period in which each Member State and the European Commission may react with comments and in detail with opinions. In principle, during the waiting period, the Member State may continue with its national legislative procedure provided that it leaves the possibility to amend the draft and the act is not adopted before the expiry of the waiting period. If substantial changes are required during the waiting period in the Project, it shall be subject to a new notification with a new waiting period of 3 to 6 months. In the present case, the amendments adopted at the end of 2014 to the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses in respect of measuring and controlling instruments constitute technical regulations and should have been notified before their adoption by the National Assembly, and not to adopt provisions and to postpone their action. However, specifically to your question. On 2 December 2015, two days ago, the Ministry of Economy received a request from the Ministry of Finance concerning the actions to be taken under a notification procedure in relation to the new European Union Directive 2015/1535 and whether a new notification form should be used. The answer of the Ministry of Economy, which has been sent today, states that, under the provisions of the directive, the notification procedure is only carried out at the stage of a draft act, i.e. this should have happened last year. Under the procedure, it is not envisaged to be notified already adopted by the National Assembly and published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u209	Thank you, Minister Lukarski. Mr. Andreev, come in for a reply to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u210	Mr. Minister, what you answer is sure and very well written to you by your experts, but I did not hear the answer to my question. My question was very specific " Minister Goranov" explained that the notification protocol that was sent to you should have been sent by you to the European Commission, as it was completed by the Ministry of Finance, according to the operation of the directive, which I know was repealed in October 2015. I ask: before this directive is repealed, under which the procedure in question has been initiated, this protocol, when received by the Ministry of Finance in your Ministry, what have you done with it? Because at the time you received, this directive was still in effect. Did you immediately send him to the European Commission, or did you not send him? Because what is happening is that we are voting here on some laws that restrict small producers of alcohol and the people of vintage producers, and the large producers who are doing most likely serious damage without having the appropriate system of measuring what they produce, we are constantly transferring the ball between the European Commission, the Finance Ministry and the Economic Ministry. My question was quite specific and I repeat it again: you this notification protocol, which was filled out by the Ministry of Finance, when did you receive it? Under the old directive, did you send it on that action to the European Commission? That's what I'm asking you, otherwise I can't accept your answer to my questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u211	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. A hole, Minister Lukarski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u212	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Andreev, since I prepared myself carefully for your question, I will tell you that you are wrong. I did a background check on the National Assembly's shorthand. Mr. Goranov didn't say that. And you know why he didn't say that? Because a notification form from the Ministry of Finance in the Ministry of Economy has not entered. It hasn't been sent and hasn't been filled out by the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Andreev. For this reason, I am telling you that the only thing that has come from the Ministry of Finance is on 2 December, without a notification form to which we have responded today with regard to the procedure. That's it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u213	Thank you, Minister Lukarski. The second question is from the National Representative Georgi Todorov Bozhinov on the completion of the construction of Sofia Tech Park, funded by Operational Program "Competitiveness." You're welcome to develop your question, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u214	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! There is a grand opening of this large site "Sofia" Research and Technology Park. Dear Minister, when you took office as Minister, you took over the functions and responsibilities of the principal of the company, which builds this huge object. After two or three years of history, you had a major task of speeding up the construction of the sites and mainly the absorption of these about 50 million for contracts in engineering. Your second task from now on, I think, is to fill with content the activity of this huge object so that it can benefit society more, for the whole Bulgarian people. My question before the opening is: what are the verified costs at the date 15 November to make it clear what funds will be used under European funding, what more is needed to finance and implement the technology park with content? Where will these funds be from and how you intend to optimize its activities? I'm asking this question because before you we've witnessed an out-of-control spending of 360 grand for law firms, 260 thousand for other consultants, 760 thousand. lv. For security, 330 thousand. lv. For office supplies, 300,000 for airline tickets, 600,000 for public visualization, 480,000 for public events and so on. That is, you inherited a company where you had to speed up its construction and maximize the funds that were envisaged.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u215	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Minister Lukarski, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u216	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bozhinov, what was before me and what funds have been used, unfortunately for better or worse, I cannot bear responsibility. I'll tell you about our mandate and under my control what happened on this subject. Currently the contract is for grant financial assistance, the specific beneficiary is still in the process of implementation. Pursuant to a further agreement concluded on 3 September 2015, the deadline for implementing the project activities is 31 December this year. Currently the building of the Innovation Forum and the square infrastructure of the project are fully completed. The implementation of the engineering contracts on the other four sites, which are expected to be completed by the end of this month, is ongoing. These are the buildings incubator, laboratory, museums, experimentarium and visitor center and floor parking. According to the grant agreement, the beneficiary's commitment is to complete the physical implementation and to repay the subcontractors by 31 December 2015. The total amount of expenditure spent and reported European funds under the project, which you ask for, will be around 85 million by the end of this period. lv. In view of the timetable that I said, final payments with contractors are expected to be made by the end of the calendar year and documents to be submitted to the managing authority for reimbursement of the expenditure incurred. You know the Prime Minister of Britain was here yesterday. He was at the opening of one of the exhibitions the Innovation Forum. I'm sure you've read the reviews on this. There was a presence of people from business circles, especially IT specialists from the UK. The assessment, to put it mildly, was quite high for what was done in the territory of Sofia Tech Park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u217	Thank you, Minister Lukarski. Mr. Bojinov, your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u218	Dear Minister, on March 4th of this year of this tribune of my question you answered that on November 15th all construction works will be completed, verified costs will be verified and more than 97 million will be used. BGN as the financial programme of the project. Now you're telling me that on September 3rd, an additional agreement was made. Who? And can these funds, which were not verified by 15 November, be paid by the operational programme or will they be paid by the Bulgarian taxpayers? Question number one. My answer to the fact that you are responsible for your period yes, but this project started as soon as Rosen Plevneliev became President of Bulgaria. The project was so constructed and, at his will, unchanged by three prime ministers and three of your predecessors. It is led by Mrs. Panayotova, former Head Manager of Business Park, Mladost, also under the auspices of Mr. Rosen Plevneliev. And then, and now I claim that this project was designed so that the most appetizing construction site in Sofia would not be missed to absorb 100 million. lv. from the Programme "Competitiveness" which could go directly to the Bulgarian business and a hundred companies to receive an impulse for real development. In addition, this money was targeted at specific economic entities. Now it is important to you what content you will perform it with, because I say that in these buildings nothing other than those buildings of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and technical vouses in Sofia that stand empty or half empty. This object was designed mainly to absorb the funds. That's why your responsibility for management and efficiency is becoming enormous, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u219	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Right to the doppelganger, Minister Lukarski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u220	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojinov, thank you for reminding me, but I very well remember your parliamentary question on the subject. He wasn't 4 years old. He was 6 March.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u221	Whoa!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u222	I do not question the right to ask that question again. I will answer you specifically for the supplementary agreement. The term of the contract is extended until 31 December and there will be no problem to verify these funds because it is within the calendar year. Since there is an extension of the time limits for the implementation of engineering contracts, this is due to the following circumstances: first, complex nature and features of this type of award, of simultaneous execution of design and construction; second, parallel and simultaneous design and construction of six solo large-scale sites; and third Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u223	Thank you, Minister Lukarski. I thank Mr. Bozhidar Lukarski for his participation in today's parliamentary control. Two questions will be answered by Ms Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. The first question is from the MP Vasil Milanov Antonov on specific actions that will be priorities in order to ensure the energy security of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u224	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! Two weeks ago, it became clear that the European Union has approved several energy projects, including the Turkish Stream. He is committed to the Tesla pipeline, which will be its continuation and will carry gas from the Turkish border to Greece, Austria and other countries. At the same time, the European Union will assist in the implementation of the TANAP trans-anadol pipeline between Turkey and Azerbaijan, as well as the Trans-Caspian pipeline, which will carry the Azeri and Turkmen gas to Turkey. All this will enable Turkey to become a gas hub for Europe and a leader in the Balkans on these issues. From the statement of the Russian Minister of Energy Alexander Novak from this time it became clear that Russia is not considering an option for the construction of a gas distribution centre or branch of the Turkish Stream. After the South Stream pipeline was terminated before it started, the consequences for Bulgaria are colossal, with our country losing about 5 billion from this project alone. EUR in a long-term perspective, and along with the losses from the terminated projects NPP "Belene" and "Burgas" "Alexandroupolis" "about 20 billion." Euros. Dear Minister, a little more than a month ago in a statement at the conference at the American Chamber of Commerce in Sofia, the Prime Minister stressed his personal contribution to the suspension of these projects and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior stressed this event as a political force. This whole sequence of methodical and targeted actions by the highest state echelon, if not forever, has long erased Bulgaria's opportunities for a modern energy centre in the Balkans. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And here comes my question: what specific measures and actions will you take as a minister to ensure Bulgaria's energy security? Just one more sentence when I referred to my question in the office of the National Assembly and put it before you, that same day, hours later, we found out from the world agencies about the downed Russian bomber on the Syrian border on the Turkish side, so this also makes my question more up-to-date. We await your specific response.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u225	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Minister Petkova, come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u226	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, I would like to begin by thanking you for the extremely up-to-date question you are asking. The issue of the country's energy security is extremely important and I really appreciate this topic you have raised. However, one of the main priorities in Bulgaria's government's stable development programme is the diversification of natural gas sources and routes, respectively ensuring the country's energy security. In fulfilling this priority, the Bulgarian government is working very actively to build Bulgaria's interconnection with neighbouring countries Greece, Turkey, Romania and Serbia. At the beginning of 2015, at the initiative of the Ministry of Energy in order to speed up the Gas Interconnection Project with Greece, a roadmap was developed with an accurate timetable of the activities under which the gas connection is planned to be built and put into operation in 2018. Pretty soon, on December 10, 2015, after a few years of delay, the signing of the final investment decision for the interconnector "Greece" - Bulgaria - a project that is extremely important for the energy security of Bulgaria and the countries of Southeast Europe. IGB is a major part of the southern gas corridor and the construction of this interconnector will enable diversification of the natural gas supply source. Over the past year, there has also been very serious progress on the interconnector with Serbia, on which our Serbian partners have jointly developed a roadmap for the implementation of the project. The expected deadline for putting into service is 2018, and the realization of this interconnector will in practice enable the integration of the markets. In the most advanced phase is the interconnection with Romania, which is expected to elect a new contractor of the underwater part under the Danube. A contract for the selection of a contractor of construction works is under way. In its successful completion and in the absence of new difficulties related to the specific geological structure of the section under the Danube river, construction works are expected to be completed in 2016 and the interconnector will be put into operation. With regard to the gas connection, the European Commission described the project as one of the Bulgarian gas projects of common interest. We have received funding from the European Commission this year for a pre-investment study under the Connecting Europe Facility, which amounts to 190 thousand. Euros. A selection procedure is underway for a contractor to prepare this pre-investment study. In parallel, this is actively being worked on the rehabilitation of the transmission infrastructure. In early October this year the modernization and commissioning of the reconstructed compressor station in Ihtiman and the new gas turbine unit were completed. In the process of modernization are three other compressor stations, which will be put into operation the first year of 2016. These are the compressor station Strandzha, Lozenets and Petrich. In support of the energy security policy of the country, the government developed a concept for a gas distribution centre in Bulgaria. Fortunately for all of us, the European Commission has declared the concept of the so-called "Hub" for a project of common interest. This happened a few days ago on November 18th. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Its implementation will be another guarantee of energy security not only for Bulgaria, but also for the region of Southeast Europe. Another of our top priorities, which we rely on and which we define as extremely important for energy security, is the focus on local production. That is why one of the government's first decisions in December last year was linked to the launch of the deep Black Sea search and survey procedure. This procedure has also been completed for the block "Silistar" has been designated as the holder of the search and survey authorisation. This is one of the world's leaders in the industry. If we implement all these projects in the gas sector, I believe that Bulgaria will become a truly inaccessible factor of the gas map of Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u227	Thank you, Minister Petkova. Mr. Antonov, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u228	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable ministers! Dear Mrs. Petkova, you are talking about diversification and interconnector connections, which is a good thing, because one year has been working in this direction, but you still didn't mention anything about the main problems that accumulate and what has been happening lately. First of all, it is clear that so far, in terms of South Stream, we have no clarity whether it has stopped or not, and there Bulgaria must have invested 191 million. Euros. Even when we talk about the interconnector links, colleague Dobrev from GERB, the former minister, and here there is a gap between you and him, said that the interconnector link with Greece earlier than 2019 will not happen. I believe, of course, that your information is the one that should be relevant. You didn't mention anything about the nuclear power plant "Belene" although yesterday at the blitz control Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev had specific questions posed by colleagues, he mentioned the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and the reactor that some talks were being held. And the good thing, the rational thing about it is that for the first time, you mentioned an economy and a real balance of electricity. It is clear to me that you are pressed by many electricity producers, electricity is expensive, which in recent years have used European directives and other ways, and they will always be opposed to cheap electricity, the production of cheap electricity. But only in the last few days do I want to remind you of an information that has remained in the background. He won the case against him in a Bulgarian court. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Allow me another sentence, although the subject is very big. Risk Engineering won the case. It is the operator of the Belene plant. In Belene, we have a startup project, we have declared reactors, there are reactors that are ready and waiting in Rostov on Don. At the same time, from the Bulgarian court we have an acquittal on all points of the operator of the Nuclear Power Plant. I would very much like to touch on this subject again, because we are having long promising conversations, what the state has invested and which could actually happen very quickly, somehow remains in the background. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u229	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Here you are, Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, there is no way, when we talk about energy security, to miss the extremely important topic related to the need for interconnection. In order to be energy safe, first of all, we must have the necessary infrastructure to enable us to ensure this security, to obtain natural gas from a different source or a different route. So building the interconnector links is our top priority and absolute prerequisite for guaranteeing our energy security, not only to Bulgaria, but to the entire region of Southeast Europe. That is why our focus is on building this interconnection and there is no way that this focus can be missed. Of course, it is also very important theme that you are putting on nuclear energy. I will only allow myself to remind myself that another very important priority of ours is precisely the extension of the life of the V and VI block of the NPP. Fortunately for us, we work very well with our Russian partners there. What we have taken as action and as a programme in terms of implementation within all necessary events on the extension of the life of the V and VI block takes place within these deadlines and on this road map. As far as the NPP is concerned, we all know that there is an arbitrage, it will have a corresponding solution. I believe that we should wait for the ruling of arbitration and then draw up a strategy in relation to subsequent actions. Until the arbitration ruling comes out, I think it is in the common interest that we do not put this subject and do not comment on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u231	Thank you, Minister Petkova. Question from the MP Petar Georgiev Kadiev about the state of the broadband network in Smolyan district. Dear Mr. Kadiev, if you'd like to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the broadband network in Smolyan District is the subject of discussions from an alarmingly long period of time. Most of the carrier columns have been distorted or completely fallen due to adverse climatic conditions and natural disasters affecting the region in the past 2015. No smaller are the concerns of the local residents than the lack of complete equipment and the securing of the power grid, including the lack of catholic guides, which are extremely important for the prevention of overvoltage of the network and its accompanying facilities. My question to you is: when was the last time the electricity grid was monitored in Smolyan region? What are his findings? Will the Ministry of Energy take measures to secure the long lines and prevent overload of the network and facilities?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u233	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Minister Petkova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadyev, thank you for this up-to-date question. We all remember the month of March 2015, when there were adverse weather conditions, heavy snowfall, which caused many settlements to remain powerless, thousands of users to be powerless for a relatively long period of time. Undoubtedly, one of the most affected areas was the region of Smolyan. That is why we have done our analysis, risk assessment regarding the state of the transmission network, and I would now like to inform you of the following. As a result of this analysis, a change in the legal framework was made. A very important regulation has been amended that relates to the server of the energy objects. There the Ministry of Energy, together with colleagues from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, developed such a regulation. It passed its public consultation and since 29 September 2015 it is in force. The new provisions of the Regulation allow the energy undertakings to take action to increase the size of the waiting area where necessary. As you know, among the texts of the old Ordinance around the routes of mid-voltage air power lines there were to be maintained stretches of 3 meters away from both sides, without taking account of the height of the trees. This deficiency has already been removed by allowing every 10 years the width of the prosecs to be updated depending on the growth of the trees. In addition, I inform you that, by my order of 1 September 2015, as a preventive measure, an inspection has been carried out to establish the readiness of energy facilities for disaster operations and the readiness of electricity companies, electricity distribution companies and the electricity system operator for the autumn-winter season 2015 (2016). The overall conclusion of the verification and analysis of the activities carried out on 25 September 2015 is that, after completing in full the autumn events until 30 October 2015, as well as planned repair and investment programmes for 2015, it can be considered that, in general, the high voltage transmission network, high and medium voltage substations operated by the Electricity System Operator are ready to operate during this autumn-winter season. More specifically for Smolyan region. In the current 2015 prevention of all electricity lines in Smolyan region was carried out. The following actions related to monitoring and ongoing maintenance of transmission lines have also been taken. In the period March-April 2015 to meet the requirements of art. 139 para. 1 of the Law on Forests and Art. 32 of Ordinance No 8 on the conditions and procedures for the protection of forest areas against fires are covered by all transmission lines in the territory of Smolyan region. In the period May-June 2015, before the start of the fire-fighting season, again in compliance with the requirements of the Forest Act and Regulation No 8 a second tour of the facilities located in Smolyan district was carried out. The last one for this year's tour was carried out in the period 27 October 2015 by a committee with representatives of the Central Management Board of the ESO, according to an established timetable for scheduled inspections of technical operation, fire safety, as well as health and safety conditions of work in the network service sub-region Smolyan. Every year it is planned to clean the routes of the air lines 110 kilovolts, 220 kilovolts and 400 kilovolts on the territory of the country, specifically for Smolyan ESO has cleared 231 decares of prosecs on the 110 kilovolts lines [[the President signals that time has run out]] This is Chaya, Spazpa and Miner. 8,5 decares have been cleaned and 587 single trees have been cut off outside the airline server 110 and 220 kilovolts. Plans were also made to replace lightningproof unarmed airline 110 kilovolts Miner from pillar 19 to pillar 38. According to the data of the Electricity System Operator, the so-built power grid in Smolyan region meets the security criteria N-1 and the current energy quality standards, with no overloading elements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u235	Thank you, Minister Petkova. Your line, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you, Mrs. Petkova. I am very happy, because this question about the waitress was raised by me right after the disaster. In fact this was the main reason for the long lines to fall and the main part of the population to remain powerless. My concern is that some of the long-distance conduits that have fallen are standing still, and they have fallen, and I don't see them being removed. If you go from Rozhen in the direction of Smolyan, you will see in two or three places the long lines that are left and standing. That's my main concern. Regarding the Catholic leaders, I admire that such measures have already been taken, because this is the main thing that protects the facilities from medium and low tensions. If these catholic guides aren't there, you know what happens in thunder, in overloads, about shutting down the long lines, everything hits the end users and they are victims. Again, thank you for interfering, and there has already been some result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u237	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. You're not gonna use the back right now. I thank Mrs Temenuzhka Petkova for her participation in today's parliamentary control. Two questions from the MP Volen Nikolov Siderov will be answered by Mr. Daniel Mitov, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Mr. Siderov's first question is about not allowing Russian humanitarian planes in the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Siderov, order to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, my question concerns a decision by the Bulgarian government that would prevent Russian humanitarian planes carrying humanitarian aid to those in need in Syria. This happened in September. Yes, it has been a few months since then, but I believe that the issue is not outdated, as global geopolitical events are developing so that rather this issue is becoming up-to-date. My specific question is for what reasons did the Republic of Bulgaria close its sky for Russian planes with humanitarian aid to Syria? As supplementary information, I will add that such a request by Russia has been made for the period 1 September. The same request was made to the Hellenic Republic, which, like Bulgaria, is a member of the European Union and NATO. The difference is that Greece gives permission to fly Russian humanitarian aircraft, although the government in Athens has announced to the media that they have been pressured by Washington, by the US government, not to allow Russian planes to fly. Perhaps the Bulgarian government has received similar instruction from Washington. The difference again is that the Bulgarian government has carried out the instruction obediently, did not allow Russian planes, and Greece allowed them, that is, gave permission. My question is on what grounds, you, as foreign minister, should summarize the government's opinion, on what basis did the Bulgarian government not allow humanitarian planes that, with their cargo, would most likely save lives? Of course, the Russian authorities have used another route and another route, but still why Bulgaria stands in such a position at a time when the whole world talks about a unified fight against terrorism. A moment when Russia shows that it is fighting terrorism effectively in Syria, Bulgaria takes the opposite position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u239	Here you are, Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u240	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Siderov, for the period 1 September 2015 at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we received information that provided us with arguments to review our permission for the passage of two series of Russian aircraft, declared as carriers of "Humanitarian aid" and "Diplomatic personnel." At the heart of this decision of the Bulgarian side is the doubt that the actual purpose of the flights of Russian military transport planes does not correspond to the previously declared. This gave rise to further efforts to clarify the nature of the cargo transported declared humanitarian aid. In the course of these checks, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs received information from the competent authorities that the flights in question were related to the transport of military equipment, weapons and property intended for the Bashar al-Assad regime. In this regard, I remind you that restrictive measures have been imposed on the Syrian Arab Republic by the European Union by Council Decision No 255 of 2013 prohibiting the sale, supply, transfer and export to Syria from the territory of the Member States of certain equipment, goods and technology which could be used for internal repression. That decision of the Council shall be in force, whether or not those goods and technology originate in the territory of the Member States. In this sense, the specific refusal was imposed as a sanction by the end-user, and this is the Syrian Arab Republic, not by the flag State of the aircraft flying the Russian Federation in this case. At the same time, we must emphasise that the transport of diplomatic personnel claimed by the Russian side was not in line with the situation of the Bulgarian legislation, which requires a five-day period of prior declaration of such flights. The flights requested by the Russian side were planned to take place within a short period of time on 10 and 11 September, not complying with the deadlines required for granting diplomatic authorisations. The Verbal notes of the Embassy of the Russian Federation were imported to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 8 and 9 September. In view of this, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria informed the Embassy of the Russian Federation that no realization is allowed in the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the remaining flights designated by the Russian side. Their implementation would be contrary to the legislation in force in the country, international law, to the provisions laid down in Council Decision No 782 of 2011 of the European Union, Regulations No 442 of 2011 and No 509 of 2012, Council of the European Union Decision No 420 of 2012 and Decision No 255 of 2013 of the Council of the European Union and to the fulfilment of other allied obligations arising from the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in NATO and the European Union. In cases where doubts arise in the nature of the cargo carried by an aircraft, it is permissible to request an inspection from the country through whose airspace the foreign aircraft passes. In this context, my proposal of 9 September 2015 is the cargoes of aircraft with the so-called humanitarian assistance to be checked at Bulgarian airports, demonstrating the readiness of the Bulgarian State to assist in the realization of humanitarian flights. In view of the importance of the issue, he was formally placed once again and during a meeting at the Consular Relations Directorate at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with diplomats from the Russian Embassy on 10 September. This Bulgarian proposal has no answer until now. During the same meeting, Bulgarian diplomats requested the Russian side to provide information on the contents of the cargo, data on its consignor and recipient when submitting notes with requests for diplomatic permissions to fly airplanes into our airspace. In the previous verbal notes at the Embassy of the Russian Federation regarding aeroplanes declared as carrying humanitarian aid, no such information was available. Dear Mr. Siderov, compliance with the Bulgarian legislation, international law and the obligations arising from Bulgaria's membership in international unions justify the arguments underlying the decision to prevent those Russian flights. We remain ready for dialogue and cooperation, of course, with the Russian side on both this and other issues of a bilateral or multilateral nature.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u241	Thanks for the answer. Mr. Siderov, you've been entitled to a line for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u242	Mr. Minister, your answer was thorough, but it covered the most important. The relations between two countries, the Republic of Bulgaria and other countries are always more than the strict protocol. You've listed formal reasons why you've given up Russian planes. I believe that the request to be checked is not in line with international norms, as this subject is diplomatic, but anyway, we are overlooking it. As for the doubts as to whether weapons or military equipment were being transported there, I would like to tell you that in recent months there have been enough information in international agencies that it is Bulgaria and Ukraine that are the suppliers of weapons in Syria, and weapons for those who are engaged in terrorist activities. Of course, I know you'll say you don't have that kind of data, but there were some pretty serious data. By the way, the US Embassy itself confirmed, after the case in Anevo, that American specialists were killed there, others were injured, which were preparing supplies for Syria. Then how does Bulgaria comply with the restrictive standards for non-weapons in Syria? I don't know! You'll probably find an answer to this paradox, you've been worked out enough. I want to tell you something, more like advice to give you that your effort to be more Catholic than the pope can put you in a confusing situation. It's already putting you up. Yesterday, for example, here was the host in power, Disraeli's colleague, Mr. Cameron. Although his visit was very secret, I heard that he said that Britain intends to intervene against the Islamic State against which the Russian Federation is already engaged in military action. We have heard such requests from Germany. French President Holland was at a special meeting with Russian President Putin precisely to discuss joint action against ISIL. You yourself, some time ago, weeks ago, said categorically that Bulgaria would not participate in action against ISIL. Why? Since our partners in the European Union have declared such participation, why is Bulgaria pulling, albeit symbolically, to support the fight against terrorism? This is a question that you will have to answer just as soon as you stand in the position of Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u243	You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary. [[Noise and lines.]] Please keep your voice down at the bottom of the room!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u244	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Siderov, I never said that Bulgaria will not participate in actions against ISIL. Yes, it is! I said the following because the question was about land operation. The ground operation is one thing, and actions against ISIL is quite another. Bulgaria has been part of the coalition against the so-called Islamic State for over a year. We delivered, as you know, light weapons and ammunition to the Kurdish Peshmerga precisely to fight against ISIL. We use all the opportunities we have to be an effective part of this coalition. This was done over a year ago, Mr. Siderov, you know it. We are making every effort to be an effective part of this coalition. As far as I can tell. It was a matter of ground operation, and my answer was different. You just have to check it out. I'll tell you if I have to, but we don't have time right now. As far as planes are concerned, I've listed the reasons. I cannot, as a foreign minister, violate international law and the obligations that the state has assumed with its participation as an ally in NATO and as a member of the European Union. It's got standards. It's not protocol. This is international law and we must respect it. My proposal for verification of Russian aircraft was very constructive, well-intentioned and in line with international law. There's no violation of anything. If we are convinced that humanitarian aid is involved, we are always ready for cooperation with the Russian Federation, in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u245	Thank you for your answer. The next question is again by the MP Volen Siderov on the intervention of foreign ambassadors in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Siderov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is related to manifestations of foreign ambassadors, which are repeated not once or twice, especially from several countries. I will quote directly the United States, France, Germany and Britain. These are ambassadors who constantly state some interference in the internal affairs of Bulgaria. In this case, my question to you is: what measures will you take in relation to the unacceptable interference of foreign ambassadors in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria regarding the unacceptable draft of Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva? It's about a law that was passed by Mrs. Kuneva. It was not accepted here in the Chamber, then came out several ambassadors with a common position, expressing their concern about rejecting the draft law. Such interference by the ambassadors I had the opportunity to have a special meeting here in the National Assembly building, to also express that I do not accept, and my outrage of such interference, because on no other occasion can we think of a state in which, for example, the Bulgarian ambassador has expressed any attitude towards the law..............................the adopted or unacceptable, in someone's parliament. This is unthinkable, ridiculous, and I don't know this case. In Bulgaria, however, foreign ambassadors, especially those listed by me, are very fond of interfering. I think it is high time for the Foreign Ministry in such cases to intervene, to do, as the diplomatic protocol requires, the relevant note, note or any address to these ambassadors to remind them that they are simply representatives of their country here, that they have no right to intervene in our internal affairs, to influence the adoption or non-acceptance of laws, as well as to express an opinion on a party, whether it should be in power or not, what we have heard, for example, from Mr. Kaban. He is a favorite of many TV stations and in the past two years he has expressed his opinion that the party "Attack" should not be in power. This is unacceptable and your intervention must be decisive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u247	Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u248	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Siderov, acting in accordance with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations since 1961, the extraordinary and competent ambassadors of foreign countries in the host country decide in what form to contribute to the good of bilateral relations between the parties who send them and the host. That's what it says. In this sense, they are free to express their positions and opinions on matters both of a foreign policy nature and of those concerning the processes taking place in the country where they head a diplomatic mission. Each government decides whether and to what extent it should comply with a position, seeking the best solutions, taking into account its national interests and referring to European experience. We are aware of the position expressed by ambassadors of some countries of the European Union concerning the rejected draft anti-corruption law. The reasons for your interpretation of internal affairs are not documentary, but purely propaganda-party. In view of this, the application of measures to freedom of speech and the possibility of defending your own opinion would be an adventure devoid of any legitimate grounds and in violation of almost every law of Bulgarian, European, which you can think of. I deeply regret that I am witnessing such an attitude by a representative of the legislative power and, unlike such an understanding of diplomatic relations, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue to rely on the good cooperation it has with its European partners. Here I would like to remind you that in the end, the opinions expressed concern areas where Bulgaria and its European partners have an equal understanding of what measures, what processes should be developed and should be taken against corruption, for example. We understand that we must fight corruption and we must do it the best way. The opinion, expressed by the ambassador, is welcome. If one of the ambassadors and when one of the ambassadors exceeds his authority, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has always reacted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u249	Here you are, Mr. Siderov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u250	Mr. Minister, I would like it to be as you say, but, unfortunately, it is not, and for several governments, I have witnessed as a Member of the National Assembly that, following the harsh and unacceptable intervention of foreign ambassadors, the Foreign Ministry has not reacted. Both to a Turkish ambassador and to an American who intervened. You quoted the Vienna Convention. There is also a special text in the same Convention defining the powers of ambassadors for intervention or non-interference in internal affairs. There it is specifically said that they cannot interfere in the internal affairs of the countries to which they are sent, nor on domestic policy issues. There's a special text. And I quoted him at the meeting here at the National Assembly weeks ago organized by the Chairman of the Foreign Commission. So by reading the Vienna Convention, read it all. The ambassadors also know very well and very interestingly why certain ambassadors, I listed them the Turkish, American, German, French, intervene through media, through public appearances in the internal affairs of Bulgaria and others, many other ambassadors do not. This means that simply those who do not know their powers, know the limits of diplomacy and do not cross them. And those who consider themselves somehow consider Bulgaria to be their ward country, do so. Those listed, I'll still say the American ambassadors every one. I just want to remind you that they, since they were here after 1990, wanted to change our Constitution: Montgomery, 1993, wanted to change the Constitution so that there could be a handy party. Then there was this James Pardew who kept explaining what we should and shouldn't do, how the media should write, how they shouldn't write. There was this Mrs. Bowlan who used to say how it was necessary for the pensioners not to complain because they had property, they had apartments and so on and so forth. James Warlick is also a former American ambassador who directly told me in my face: "I will destroy you! " These are facts that I think are crossing the line, not, but rudely crossing the border of diplomatic politeness and tolerance. Therefore, let the Foreign Ministry be adequate to all ambassadors, not only to designated ones, for which they are ordered by Kozayak 16 Street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u251	You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u252	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Siderov, I do not know what else to say to you but to repeat the finding that whenever an ambassador has violated and exceeded his authority, we have reacted. However, this does not necessarily become public. When it comes to diplomatic relations, it is very often nice to do some things more discreetly on the one hand. On the other hand, it is nice, it is very good that you know the American ambassadors so well in Bulgaria. I can't really name them that well, to tell you the truth. That's nice. But we need to pay attention to other similar events. Some other time, perhaps in conversation it will also be about this, about other ambassadors who also believe that Bulgaria somehow belongs to them. So I dare say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was doing its job when it thought that a certain ambassador had exceeded his authority. Again, it doesn't have to be loud, public and that obvious. Diplomacy sometimes requires a more delicate approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u253	The next two questions to Minister Mitov are postponed, so we can move on to the answers of the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva. Question from the MPs Mariana Boyadjieva and Svetla Bachvarova concerning structural and financial problems at the Agricultural Academy. Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva, to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u254	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! An important part of the structure of the Agricultural Academy are state enterprises that carry out scientific and experimental activities. The experimental soybean station in Pavlikeni is one of those state-owned enterprises. It has a 90-year history and has always worked in support of farmers in these decades. The experimental soy station in Pavlikeni operates within the framework of the state agricultural policy and the strategy of the Agricultural Academy for the Development of Research in the Agricultural Sector. The experimental plant conducts research, experimental production, consulting and expert work in the field of selection and agrotechnics of a strategic culture such as soybeans, as well as feed peas and fie, and in the new programming period, as is known, these are extremely important crops and they will be of great importance in the work of farmers and, of course, the country's agricultural policy. 12 Bulgarian varieties of soybeans and 12 technologies for the production of soybeans for grain, seeds and green fodder were created in the Experience Station in Pavlikeni. I point out these facts from the work of the Experienced Soy Station in Pavlikeni, because in recent years the financial problems at the Agricultural Academy related to the budget have reflected negatively on the work of the state enterprise in Pavlikeni. Our question to you is: what structural changes are envisaged at the Agricultural Academy and does this concern the state enterprise in Pavlikeni? What will be the support through the budget for the implementation of scientific projects of state-owned enterprises, including in this part and for the Experienced Soy Station? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u255	Here you are, Madam Minister, to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u256	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mrs. Boyadjieva, Dear Professor Bachvarova, Members of the National Assembly! Good afternoon to the guests of the National Assembly! I think you already know the concept of reform of the Agricultural Academy was presented at the Round Table on 1 December 2015, and the purpose of this reform is to become a useful and affordable for the business intellectual center of Bulgarian agriculture, to become a modern and attractive organization for scientific and applied purposes, and especially to be a working tool for generating innovative policies in the agricultural sector, to become a partner of the Bulgarian business in agriculture. As a structure and changes to it, three regional centres for research and innovation are established in the priority areas: Center for Research, Innovation and Control in Agriculture and Resource Management; Center for Research, Innovation and Selection Network in livestock farming, fisheries and aquaculture and Center for Research, Innovation and Selection Network in plant farming. The management of the centers will be carried out by scientific council and coordination council, and will be written in detail in the Rules of Procedure. The principles under which the reform strategy has been drawn up and will be implemented as in a final version, after public discussion, will be adopted, and the principles that are enshrined in the concept, I would like to say very clearly that in any case, scientific institutes are not allowed to be shut down or abbreviated scientists. This will not be allowed, no matter what the final appearance of the adopted reform strategy will be. No land sale is allowed. There will be no duplication of scientific units, the legal autonomy of the scientific units will be maintained, the budget will be autonomous and programme funding will be relied on. State enterprises will move into the structure of the scientific institutes to develop as modern demonstration fields. Young scientists will be financially stimulated, we will consolidate the scientific potential in these three priority strategic fields of agriculture. We will integrate the educational and research scientific capacity. Businesses in agriculture and the non-governmental sector will become part of the generating ideas and commissioning tasks of scientists in order for Bulgaria to have sustainable and innovative agriculture to be competitive. The Institute's place in Pavlikeni is clear. As I have already announced, this also applies to all other such scientific institutes. You are rights in the projection of green payments introduced by the new common agricultural policy, its importance becomes increasingly strategic and this will be reflected and visible in the final version of the adopted reform. What are the deadlines that are set? By the end of January, the concept of all scientific institutes showing interest will be presented. By the end of February 2016, we will adopt all the proposals that take place in the course of these two months, then a working group, including a non-governmental sector, will discuss all of this, and at the end of April we will propose a legislative initiative for reform.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u257	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, for a reply to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u258	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! The question was asked on 5 November 2015 and on 5 November we had information from the working group, which from 23 October 2015 examined the Project for Structural Changes at the Agricultural Academy, with details that determined the transition of scientific institutes and state enterprises to higher education institutions, as well as to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. It is true that a discussion was held on 1 December, but it concerned general policy without any details of how this general policy will be implemented, apart from the general fact that structural changes are needed and they will be made after discussion. I hope indeed in the discussion that will be done in the Academy system, to consider the desire of the scientific community to be united and to develop agricultural policy in its unity, and not to move on to steps that lead to its reduction as efficiency. By the way, the Experienced Station in Pavlikeni is a state enterprise and was scheduled to move to the University of Ruse on this strategy on 23 October. I hope that's what really happens. Our question was also related to the financial problems at the experimental stations. According to the current law, the experienced stations of the Agricultural Academy carry out scientific and experimental activities and researchers participating in projects through contracts with the institutes must receive appropriate funds to support their activities, including their payment. As a result of the financial problems, all state-owned enterprises in the system in 2015 did not receive precisely the implementation of these contracts. For Pavlikeni we can say that there are five researchers who own the soybean varieties. This is perhaps the only country where there is soybean that is not genetically modified and is protected as a variety. They owe them $62,000. lv. to carry out their annual production experimental activity. Not received. My request is to pay attention to state-owned enterprises to receive their payment and to provide for the necessary funds in the next year's budget to carry out their activities normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u259	You have the floor for the doppelganger, Madam Secretary. Do you have anything to say because there was a question here about money?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u260	I can only add that Budget 2016 was voted by the National Assembly two days ago. At the Ministry of Agriculture and Food there is an increase in the budget in the First of all, I hope that we will take a legislative initiative that will make the Agricultural Academy a partner of business to find the best innovative solutions for agriculture in Bulgaria. From then on, everything else will come from the way this reform will be done so that it is the right one. Yes, there will be higher funding, but we cannot rely on the state to provide the best funding, the best wages in any structure if it does not perform the functions for which it was created effectively. That is why my call is for the whole community, which will be affected by this reform, to participate constructively in the debate by the end of February on the deadline that we have indicated to adopt the best solution. Further, the effect should be positive in the direction you ask me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u261	The next question is from the MP Svetla Bachvarova on the selection of certification body under the rural development programme. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u262	Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! My question was asked in a period when there was a problem in terms of the failed procurement procedure for the selection of the certification body of the Paying Agency. We must draw the general conclusion for the last few years that the choice of the certification body of the Paying Agency is already becoming chronic and every year creates huge problems, especially in the face of the state, as these are finances that must be verified in some form, and for this it is necessary to have an audit authority. The procedure has been cancelled. It is true that in your motives for the reorder you say that this is the most democratic procedure, i.e. an open procedure, but it is being appealed, which means that it has not been carried out in a way to finalise, although there has been enough time. My question is: what are your analyses of the reasons for the failed procurement? It will most likely be a matter of fact that you have an approved certification body based on direct agreements, but what do you expect??............................................................................................. I sincerely hope that everything will end well, because if it does not end well, this means that the budget must take over.. You will say between 500 million to 1 billion leva, which should be certified accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u263	Thank you. Mrs. Taneva, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u264	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Bachvarova, MPs! To date, there has been a contract for a certification body. It is in force and this body has begun to carry out its duties. The contract was concluded after the second procedure was carried out, following the annulment of the first one of which was mentioned by Prof. Bachvarova. In the second procedure, as in the first procedure, the same participants were invited by direct negotiation. It's okay to have an appeal. The procedure has been opened. It was attended by all those who felt that they had the opportunity to do this service. The fact that the price achieved is significantly lower than last year and twice the price Bulgaria had a few years ago speaks of open competition. It is normal for any party which has not given the best conditions and has not been ranked to appeal. We cannot influence this process. The important thing is that there is no risk at the moment for any funds, because there is a contract already underway.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u265	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Bachvarova, you have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u266	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! I hope your optimism lasts at least a few more days, because the appeal from a 10-day period is ongoing. We have to hope there's no appeal so the worst doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u267	There's a contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u268	There may be a contract, but you recorded in the warrant that an appeal was possible. I really hope and sincerely wish that this does not happen, because the losses will be huge for the budget of the state. But you still have to have some conclusions about what is happening, why is happening, what are the problems? We cannot have a certification body every year due to poor public procurement. If an appeal is made, if the CDC returns it, then there's something that needs to be corrected. Anyone in your place would work better if they had long-term contracts and they were guaranteed by the implementation budget and also the capacity they need to have in order to be able to implement them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u269	Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u270	Dear Professor Bachvarova, I believe that the winner of the procedure with which I have a contract has the opportunity. He has certified, performed this role in the time since our country is obliged to have such an authority, and will again fulfil its obligations. My optimism has something to do with this. Otherwise, the contract is concluded on the possibilities given by the Public Procurement Act. I can't comment on court decisions. It was a big interest and it's a big one. Everyone is within their right to appeal, including within the time limit that you are quoting. My optimism has nothing to do with whether or not someone is going to appeal the procedure. She'll probably be appealed. However, there is a contract concluded and the subject-matter of the contract is being implemented at the moment by the one who has given the best terms and concluded the contract. I'll just say that at the beginning, when we entered the mandate, we started to do a procedure. We wanted it to be long-term because this saga is repeating itself in the second year. During the mandate of the Oresharski government, the procedure was not even started and the caretaker government did the same in the same order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u271	Thank you. We move on to a question from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev about the destruction of forests in Vitosha Nature Park. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! Vitosha is the first park in Bulgaria and on the Balkan Peninsula. It is one of the most visited protected areas in the country. The plant world of Vitosha Nature Park is extremely rich and diverse. It has formed millions of years as a result of specific geological characteristics of the mountain, climate change and active human intervention over the past few centuries. Several times, the locality has been afforested by volunteers from 2004 to 2008. Last month, reports were sent to the police that 20 acres of young forest were cut off. Note that 80% of the Park Vitosha is artificially afforested, including with funds from the European programmes. In connection with the above, my questions to you are the following: what measures have been taken to protect the wealth of Vitosha Nature Park? When is the afforestation of the destroyed forest envisaged, and by what means will this be financed? Who will take responsibility for illegal logging? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u273	For an answer, the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u274	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Kovachev, MPs! What measures have been adopted in the answers to your questions? The conservation measures for natural wealth are specified in the current Management Plan of Vitosha Nature Park and are respected in the conduct of forestry activities. In order to preserve and maintain the biodiversity and health of forest ecosystems, only low-intensity sanitary and sightings shall be conducted. In addition, a South-West state-owned undertaking has taken enhanced measures to protect state forest areas from the natural park by organising additional duty from mobile control units to the undertaking. In relation to the claim that an afforestation took place in the area of the Mechca Polyana (Menchana Polyana) between 2004 and 2008 with voluntary work, I would like to clarify the following. As a result of the passing of a smerch in 2001 and the subsequent damage by a typographer in the locality of the town of Mecha Polyana, the absorption of the damaged wood was carried out in the period 2003 - 2008. During this period there were no afforestable events by the state-owned holding of Sofia, with no data of such other work being carried out. In the spring of 2009 the first afforestation was carried out in the area of Mecha Polyana. the number of spruce and saplings per area of 72 decares. Afforestation with voluntary work in the same locality was carried out in the autumn of 2014 and were forested and reported 5 thousand. the number of spruce saplings per area of 14 decares. The event, organized by Vitosha Nature Park, is part of the activities included in a project under Operational Programme "Environment" in order to fill in the initial afforestation since 2009. After receiving signals from the Forest Executive Agency of the Association of Parks in Bulgaria on 28 October, 30 October and 2 November 2015. In total three signals were carried out timely joint checks by RIEW Sofia, Regional Directorate of Forests Sofia, South-West State Enterprise, State Holding Sofia, Directorate of Natural Park Vitosha, Sofia Municipality, representatives of "Vitosha ski" and sender of the signals. In the field inspection carried out at the locality, no illegal logging was found. The infringement found does not concern illegal logging, but partial damage to spruce crops created by afforestation between 1 and 6 years of age. Damages have been done to the created through 2009 forest culture, as part of the saplings were trampled in total 430 pieces, on an area of 10 decares. The activity of heavy goods equipment also affected two or three acres of uneasy areas. In order to establish the exact number of damaged saplings, a field check has been carried out, which found that the main part of the steppins is 335 pieces and they are wooded by state forestry and a smaller part of it is 95 pieces, with voluntary work in 2014. The recovery of the damage was carried out on 21 November this year by the employees of the South West State Enterprise, drawing up the necessary documentation for the activity. It is wooded with wood species adapted to the type of localization in the two sub-sections.. Common spruce, beech, white pine and single saplings from the oaf. So to your question, the forest is already all that has been damaged. On the third question, who will bear the responsibility for illegal logging? We've established that the action is not illegal logging, it's damage. For non-exercised physical control, which led to the violations described by the employees of the state-owned holding "Sofia" has been punished the director of the holding according to art. 18 of his management contract, which means a penalty of one month's salary has been imposed. The senior caretaker of Vitosha police station has been relieved of his duties, the forest guard of the security station has been punished with disciplinary punishment and has been transferred to another job. In the process of clarification and verification, which is not yet completed, the responsibility lies with the employees of the Nature Park Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u275	The line, Mr. Kovachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u276	Thank you for your answer. It'll be a short line. Obviously, you've taken timely action. We have a gap in the information between these 20 acres, which the signal is given and, as it came out in the media, and these 335 stepped-down cultures that you are talking about. I reserve the right for next month, or maybe the next month, we'll see exactly what order to notify me of the rest of the analysis of the check when it's finished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u277	Thank you, Mr. Kovachev. The next question is from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov concerning the effects and restrictions of the cancellation of § 78 of the Forest Act on small-scale property owners in the forest areas. The question will be developed by Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u278	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! My question concerns the effect of the repealed § 78 of the Forest Act on small forest property owners. We were alerted by colleague Dimitrov by many such small property owners, mainly in the Pleven region. Subsequently, our study showed that this is actually about property owners across the country....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Dear Minister, with the changes made to the Forests Act 60 from 2015 § 78 of the Forest Act was repealed, according to which small forest property owners could produce wood for their own use from their properties and the yield could not exceed 20% of the plantation stock. Following the repeal of the cited paragraph in order to be able to use wood from their own property, these owners must have, of course, a forest-based programme for payment to reflect the condition of that property and to provide for a very functional management of the same, full use of forest resources and their natural reproduction for the next 10 years. Only after its validation could they carry out regulated timber extraction from their properties. Especially when it comes to small owners, i.e. the properties owned are from 1-2, to several acres, the cost of preparing such a forestry programme turns out to significantly exceed the benefit of the possible extraction of wood from these properties. That was the purpose of the repealed § 78 for small properties, when they do not effectively affect the forest stock, for their own purposes the owners may use part of their plantations, and the consumption does not exceed 20% of the existing stock of the plantation in the property. There is also a serious risk that the annulment of § 78 will become the reason for the increase of illegal logging in the grey economy. In this sense, Minister, I ask you to answer the questions: what percentage of forest plantings is owned by owners whose properties do not exceed 10 decares? Do you not consider that the effect on these people of the annulment of § 78 is extremely negative and restrictive on their property? If this measure is to remain, couldn't a general programme at least be drawn up a plan for the management of the plantations of several neighbouring properties in order to reduce the cost for each individual owner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u279	For an answer Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u280	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Slavov, honourable Members of Parliament! The forest territories occupy 34% of the country's territory. 202,000. 15 ht. Of them forest areas owned by private individuals are 475 thousand. 533 hka, representing 11.32% of the whole forest territory of the country. It's 650,000 in cash. 548 or the average size of one forest property owned by a private person or another shall be 7.3 decares. The introduction of Paragraph 78 of the Law amending and supplementing the Forests Act 2012 was a temporary measure authorising the production of a forestry plan or programme of natural or legal persons and their associations, owners of land properties in forest areas with a total area of up to 20 decares, to make use of wood in compliance with the restrictions laid down in paragraph, not to carry out final phases of restocking, not to carry out logging or medium-sized management for the conversion of the extraction forests into seed forests, the amount of use not to be greater than 20 per cent of the stock of plantings. The analysis of the results of the implementation of § 78 has shown that the properties in which the logging was carried out on its basis are subject to a significant number of infringements and its use does not contribute to the full implementation of the other main functions of the forests and to the achievement of the strategic priorities set for the development of forest areas. I mean, even most often the pictures that were shown to us and on many televisions for naked logging, the most frequent violations were in such properties. The amendments to the Forests Act of August 2015 have restored the original version of the Forests Act of 2011, with which, for the forest areas we are talking about, forest plans or programmes are to be developed, which are planned not only for logging in the forests, but for all forestry activities such as afforestation, growing young forests, anti-erosion, fire-fighting activities, etc. This ensures the multifunctional sustainable management of forest ecosystems, maintenance and improvement of ecosystems, social and economic functions of forest areas. When analysing the costs of the development and validation of forestry plans or programmes for properties from 1-2 decares, up to several acres and the benefit of the possible extraction of wood from the property, the fact that they plan the events for a 10-year period should be taken into account. Of course, in one year, there is no way that any of this person has motive to do so, and that the Law on Forests and Underlaws allows for all properties owned by a natural or legal person to prepare and approve a common forestry plan or programme. In order to minimise the costs of property management and management, including the development of common forestry plans or programmes, natural and legal persons who are forest owners may also be united in the so-called forest associations. According to the Forest Act and Ordinance No 18 of 2015 on inventory and planning in forest areas, in 2016 there will be the award and development of regional plans for the development of forest areas to be assessed for compatibility under the Biodiversity Act. In this way, the need to carry out such an assessment for forestry plans and programmes will be removed, which will reduce the costs of owners planning forestry events.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u281	The line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u282	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, thank you first of all for your serious attitude to the subject. This is not the only question we have put on this subject. We have such written questions asked to you, and you have indeed provided us with very detailed and thorough information. What do I particularly notice about this matter and what you said within the framework of the answer? Indeed, there have been violations in these particular properties, as you point out, but here the interesting question is: has the perpetrator of these violations been identified? Is it true that the owners of such properties are not in fact victims of illegal logging and abuse by third parties who, in particular with regard to these properties, commit an offence, because people are obviously of little capacity to protect their property, that is, the owners did not commit an infringement, for which we should not hold them responsible and restrict their right to property and their ability to use their property through a possible, and it regulated timber production, because some third party has allowed themselves to abuse and has not been captured? This is the key question for me here. Of course, it is clear to me that this issue should not only be about you, but probably the Ministry of Interior, but I am taking this opportunity to put it to you. Perhaps you, within the Council of Ministers, will consider measures that could be taken. It is joyous that you really think about drawing up such general programs for whole groups of properties, as you mentioned, starting next year, which I hope will help these people solve their problem. There really are a lot of them. Solving this problem for many of them is actually essential because they rely on these modest properties and on this wood that is there, a small part of it for heating during the winter months. These are often poor and underprivileged people who are virtually unable to buy wood in another way, which, by the way, would appear, unfortunately, an additional incentive for the grey economy and illegal logging, because it will be offered by precisely such people performing illegal logging at lower prices and illegally harvested wood. So you get a closed loop, which is really nice to think about how to be cut down and protect these owners. I conclude by thinking about easing procedures with regard to a request to draw up such programmes for the extraction of neighbouring properties. Thus, the complex procedure for unification in a neighbouring property association to be simplified and only on the basis of the general application of such neighbouring property owners to be sufficient grounds for drawing up a common programme and not to require them to comply with any complex bureaucratic procedures for an association and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u283	Would you like to use a hole, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u284	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I want to make a duplicate in the direction that I am by no means accusing the private owners of committing these violations. No, on the contrary, it's probably for the most part that these are third unscrupulous persons. However, it is a fact that on this type of property we, our control bodies, have identified the most common violation or the realization of naked logging. For the most part, it is also true that these intruders have not been identified, and we have not found them on site. I would like to say that all the measures taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for the preparation and adoption of the relevant regulations, changes in legislation, all leading to the limitation of illegal logging are undoubtedly linked to the introduction of new obligations of owners, operators and all those working in this sector. These measures require funding and it is undeniable that we cannot meet any of the stakeholders in this sector - owners or operators, approval. I give only for example: we all unanimously accepted the installation of GPS in the cars of those working in logging. Here we had the first notice of protest, and there was one. Yes, these measures relating to the limitation of illegal logging involve financial obligations for all those related to forestry activities. But without such obligations, there is virtually no way to fight illegal logging. Therefore, my call is that all these additional burdens should really be accepted because the interest of society is clear in the forests to carry out only regulated activity which, of course, preserves the natural wealth that we have as a country. I would recommend to the private owners, by the way, is our mentality, it is not only a problem here, but also in agriculture, a problem in vegetable production, long-term productions, let the same owners, producers, associate, and this reduces their costs associated with their main activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u285	Thank you, Minister Taneva. Now we will hear the question of the MP Petar Kadiev about the recovery of the material from the trees that fell in Smolyanska, Kardzhaliyska, Haskovo and Pazardzhishka region during the heavy snowfalls. We're listening, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u286	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, on 17 July this year I asked you a question about the use of the fallen trees after heavy snowfalls. In your reply, you assured me that despite reaching the limits of annual yield from wood processing enterprises, tenders and procedures will be announced and that external contractors will be attracted to absorb the wood pulp in question. The mid-November balance shows that an essential part of the said material has not yet been recovered, despite the lack of prolonged rains that would make it difficult to reach the hard-to-reach jobs. The corpses are still standing intact, and the coming winter will hardly make it easier to solve this problem. The lack of timely response will lead to decay and waste of valuable and expensive timber, which can benefit both the state and the people in places that need it for heating during the winter period. Despite the lower unemployment rate registered in the country and the municipalities affected by this problem, there are sufficient numbers of registered employment seekers to be involved in the harvesting, transport and storage of fallen trees. Moreover, in the face of the Agency for Social Assistance, every year needs and buys timber for heating of registered socially weak households. My question to you is: will the waste of fallen wood be thwarted and if the Ministry does not have enough tools to collect it, is it possible to delegate powers to municipalities in the affected regions to absorb this timber, store it and use it for the purposes of the Agency for Social Assistance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u287	For an answer Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u288	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Kadyev! Allow me to disagree with your statement. Yeah, you asked me the question a few months ago. I never claimed that the fallen mass would be absorbed by the end of this year, because that was physically impossible, and there was a plan. I'll introduce you to the numbers. Madam President, if you'll excuse me, I'm just very, very, very fond of accurate factology and comparison with what the annual use is to analyze your own data. We are talking mainly about state and forestry farms that are within the scope of a Southern Central State enterprise, where there was such a fallen mass and there is still only one common forestry, which is included in this disaster area - Ivaylovgrad. The average annual use of the forest plan is 1 million. 45,000. 527 cc's. The affected area of the natural disaster is 64 thousand. 527 hectares. The volume of wood or lying mass affected, which should be absorbed, I am talking in total about the area affected, is 1 million. 183,000. Six hundred and eighty cubes. m. An irresistible affected area due to the lack of access to it amounts to 6 thousand. 45 hectares of forest territory or from this volume of wood lying mass for absorption 575 cube. It cannot be mastered due to lack of access to those 6 thousand. hectares. The area of the marked plantations is 43 thousand. 551. The yield is 688 thousand. 527 cube. m lying mass or absorption of 1 million Cubic, there are procedures and it's assigned to absorb. That's why I'm answering one question that he wasn't assigned. No, on the contrary, over 60% has been assigned. The planned amount according to the absorption capacity of this table in 2015, dear Mr. Kadiev, is 430 thousand. 785 ccs for the affected common territory. By December 1st, the realised amount of failed mass was 400 thousand. 723 cc or 93%. The planned absorption for 2016 is 592,000. 871. There is one quantity remaining for 2017 and this is for the state-owned company Zlatograd. I answered the first part of the question a few months ago, given that nearly three times the annual use there has such a lying mass, there remain 30 thousand. a cubic or to date a Southern Central Forest State has done everything possible and the plan with which it could, according to the access of the affected territories, absorb such a mass from the State will be made. On the other side of your question... I'll answer in the back for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u289	A line, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u290	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, do you know why I wouldn't agree? Because if you go in the direction of Rozhen now, Smolyan, you will see a woodwork table standing intact, fallen and which is along the road. It can safely come together and be given to the agency. That's my idea. Do you understand? This is what concerns me at least this table, which is in accessible areas, to gather or donate in such a way that it can be given to socially weak people. That's the idea.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u291	Must be from state territory, they're municipal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u292	So the second part of the question is: can they be, is there such a procedure? I don't blame you for not being done, okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u293	Duplika, Mrs. Taneva, to explain that you as Minister cannot answer as Minister for the Municipal Land, in this case it burns.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u294	Dear Mr. Kadiev, the question you are asking concerns municipal territories which are governed by the relevant structures of the municipalities. It is not what I have read as factology that the State has carried out in the scope of action over state forestry, where the affected forest territory is from a state. Your question is, however, because you obviously didn't know that part of the territory where it didn't start was municipal, whether or not to delegate this activity to the municipalities. This, in principle, given the implementation of the absorption activities of this lying mass, is far better done by the state. We have no motive at all to seek the municipality and assign it, for the simple reason that the municipalities themselves have done very little of what they could have done. And I can quote them to you: the owners of forests from Smolyan district, Kardzhali district, Pazardzhik, where there are affected plants and have not started absorption of the damaged wood, are Ardino, Zlatograd, Nedelino, Banite, Krumovgrad, Kardzhali, Momchilgrad, Chernoochene, and in municipalities such as Madan and Smolyan the absorption has started but is at a small pace. And for the reverse procedure, whether the municipality can entrust this to the State depends on the will of the local authorities. I want to assure you that what the state can do for its territory, it does in the plan that it adopted in the time when we inventoryed these damages from this natural disaster. With regard to the proposal for the provision of the damaged wood for the purposes of the Agency for Social Assistance, the regulations laid down in Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 2008 on the conditions and procedures for granting targeted aid for heating to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, regulates the granting of targeted aid for solid fuel heating to be carried out in two ways: in money to a entitled person or family, or to a solid fuel trader who has made the delivery only when explicitly reflected in a request and wish by the person or family. This does not allow the wood to be provided directly to the Social Assistance Agency in order to satisfy those willing to heat themselves with firewood. On the other hand, there is no obstacle to individuals receiving personally targeted heating aid to purchase the corresponding amount of firewood directly from the State forestry price list. It is also better with regard to wood, which is digested due to the natural disaster.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u295	Next, a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova on the implementation of projects for harvest sites under the Rural Development Programme 2007 - 2013. We're listening, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u296	Madam President, Madam Minister, colleagues! My question is about implementing the measures of the Rural Development Programme for the first programming period. A procedure for the construction or repair of small infrastructure was launched between 9 December 2013 and 16 December 2013. It was only about the construction of harvest sites under measure 321 of the Programme "Main services for the population and the economy of rural areas." The resources that were determined at the time were 6.5 million. Euros. There were opportunities in addition to performing construction and reconstruction, also for the purchase of specialized transport. That's the background. Of course, this extreme measure was again adopted and the steps in this direction were implemented in order to absorb the resource that the State had to negotiate at the end of 2013. The contracts were signed in 2014. My question is in relation to the signed contracts with municipalities for the implementation of this activity, how many of these contracts are accounted for and finalised in terms of the fulfilment of the obligations under the contracts? The second question, which is therefore significantly more important, given the huge costs that the state spends each year on the harvest of the two producers, do you think that the sites built will help farmers and the state in ensuring that this extremely important task is carried out in the sector.. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u297	For an answer Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u298	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Professor Bachvarova! By order of November 29th This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Five hundred thousand. Euros. During the period of admission, applications of six municipalities were accepted "Straldzha," Unite, Tervel, Suhindol, Roman and Boboshevo." All submitted projects have been approved and have respectively concluded contracts with the State Fund. Projects submitted provide for construction activities to be carried out in order to build animal waste management stations, purchase and supply of specialised technological equipment and furniture, purchase and supply of specialized inland waterway transport and equipment, specialized trucks. The newly built infrastructure will be used for the collection and temporary storage of animal waste until their removal. The acceptance was not limited and eligible for support were all municipalities within the scope of the measure. On 30 December 2013, six financial aid contracts were concluded, of which two of which were currently cancelled at a value of 4 million. 114,000. BGN, following applications for termination of the contracts by the beneficiaries of the contracts, the Municipality of Roman and the municipality of Boboshevo. The other four contracts with the municipalities of Straldzha, United, Tervel and Suhindol are worth the approved subsidy of 8 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The beneficiaries have submitted requests for the final payment to be made by the end of 2015, i.e. looking and according to correction statistics, we should assume that these beneficiaries will have built the site issues. I certainly believe that this would relieve farmers in terms of these activities, as well as the country itself.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u299	Line, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u300	Thank you. Madam President, Madam Secretary! With this issue, I wanted to draw attention to the fact that municipalities, in carrying out this extremely important work, are left alone. They are left alone in terms of the possibility of financing really the necessary steps to be able to store animal waste. At the same time, every year, and now for three years, huge funds are being allocated to the two erasers, which, respectively, are increasing every year, even though the number of animals is even decreasing. However, in the legal framework and in the requirements that you are likely to consider, this activity of the municipalities could be assessed and included in the possibility of being financed in order to be able to meet the obligations relating to the collection. My request is when and as it requires a change of second reading in the Veterinary Activity Act, which is a fact, there are again only mobile establishments, but municipalities are not included in any form in the proposals that are made by both the Ministry of Agriculture and also the views of the Food Agency on who and how should be financed as an activity exactly this service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u301	Are you going to use a hole? Here you are, Mrs. Taneva. You are tireless today.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u302	Dear Professor Bachvarova, I am not sure if the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Animal Health Act has expired. If it has not expired, I will support such a proposal of MPs because this is the possible procedure. Yes, you are rights in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Veterinary Practice in the area of troupe collection, we have provided for new opportunities. They take a few, including to build new ones. But municipalities are also an option. I personally believe that even these are the fastest realistic options at the most convenience of the respective local communities, so we, as the Ministry, would support such a text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u303	And the last question about today's parliamentary control and Minister Taneva is Mrs. Dora Yankova's question about the management of the Rhodope forest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u304	Yes, now for the Rhodopes, next time for the others, Madam President. Dear Madame Chairman, Madame Minister! My question is about the management of the Rhodope Forest, because you have just debated with my colleague from my constituency the winter snowfall, snowfall and winter conditions have aggravated the condition of the Rhodope Forest. At the beginning of 2015, Madam Minister, in writing you committed to specific measures and actions to restore the Rhodope Forest, which you have now delegated under the Law, to be managed by the Southern Central State Enterprise. Accordingly, there you shared that I am sorry here that you are passing in numbers, perhaps you will give more information that after an accurate inventory you informed me that 340 thousand. dense cubic meters is damaged wood, which is about 6,000. hectares. Along with this, you shared that the enterprise has a resource and has nurseries to carry out events for about 500 hectares. Parallel to that, my concern, why is it? At the end of August along with the actions of the enterprise itself Regulation No 8, which you signed, gives an additional bureaucratic obstacle. Until now, the 16 state forest farms on the small actions they had and were empowered for sanitary logging could react themselves. Now you are sending them to the Regional State Forest Institution and therefore they are a small team.................................................................................................. This has undoubtedly given us a delay. Not only is it a concern of Rhodopean people that the procedure for the restoration of the Rhodope forest is going slow and I ask you to respond to what measures have you taken, what is your observation?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u305	For an answer Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u306	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Yankova! Perhaps it is not good to repeat all the figures I have said again, but in terms of the figures, here, which I have announced, they are in the relevant documented documentation and concern a total of 34 state-owned forestry farms which are in the territory of two state-owned forestry enterprises. In my opinion, from the range of information we've been asked for before, and the one I'm saying comes the differences in numbers. With regard to plans to absorb this wood, I think it is going as planned, and, again, I say, the problem remains at the rate of absorption of this wood and restoration of non-state forests. As regards the other measures for which you have asked me a question, the amendments to the Forests Act 2014 provide that clearings which cannot be reopened naturally up to three years after they have been cut are to be afforested up to two years after the end of the three-year period. In this regard, as well as in view of the favourable conditions in the region for the natural renewal of coniferous species, afforestation will take place in cases of difficult natural processes of renewal within the statutory period. For this purpose, appropriate local tree species will be used for the relevant type of conditions, with a South-Central State enterprise ready and planned production of the required amount of reproductive material in the forest nurseries. In order to monitor the natural renewal, systematic observations of the released areas will be carried out and the cessation of obstruction of this process will be undertaken within a period shorter than the statutory one. To improve the sustainability of plantations against natural disasters and cataclysms for 2016 are provided the following activities: growing young crops without material yield............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... linear meters, and maintenance of mineralised stripes linear meters. The following measures and actions have been taken in the territorial units in Smolyan in order to improve the organisation of the conservation of the forest areas, as well as to better control the expedition of wood and increase public confidence, both in the Rhodopes and in all territorial divisions of the forest enterprise in Smolyan this year: 38 units have been formed in the territorial divisions. mobile control teams for the protection of forest areas. Equipment with the necessary fire-fighting means and in your area this has proved very necessary... in the forest areas and fire depots in the farms, personal protective equipment and protective clothing are provided, as well as motor pumps necessary for fire-fighting. A practice has been introduced, established in other European countries, for additional marking of wood on its expedition with plastic plates with a unique number and not only with a control forest mark. As of April 2015, a further marking of wood with these plates has been introduced into all territorial divisions of the Southern Central State Enterprise. The electronic transport ticket system will be introduced in the territorial divisions of the Southern Central State Enterprise from 9 December 2015 or from the end of this year, and the new software of ticket issuing devices is currently installed in all territorial divisions. Since the beginning of 2016, the Forest Act has also introduced a requirement for freight vehicles transporting wood and non-woody forest products to be fitted with proper operating tracking devices for their movement, GPSs. As you know, there have already been protests against these measures. It is important to note that since 2014, all state forestry and hunting farms in Pazardzhishka region, as well as 50% of the farms in Smolyan region, have been certified according to international FSF standards for ecological and socially oriented forest management, recognising the practice of sustainable forest management by independent organisations. In 2016, the preliminary preparations for certification of the remaining 50% of state farms in Smolyan region will be launched.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u307	Line, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u308	Madam President, Madam Secretary! I understand that an attempt has been made for some complex measures, but my great concern is the following of those we know the forest and we have actually connected our life path and grew up there. Most of the young trees that fell during the winter disaster are undoubtedly technological wood and burning wood. She's not attractive to business. Local leaders took priority over the summer what is more attractive for the business itself. Along with this you know that this has fallen into hard-to-reach and closed arrays, where there are fewer roads and more difficult to do. Right there, in the more difficult places is the most valuable forest and it is for a reason preserved. You know, your advisors inform you of this. What's the emergency? She's already fighting from the Plovdiv Lesatre Station, you've probably been informed. In the spring, the coroner will say his own thing. Leaving under winter conditions, this wood from 50 to 80% will be devalued. This will be a great damage to the state, as a whole, as a policy. As a national representative, what I wish you would do is create a feeling that for the Bulgarian forest as a whole, and for the Rhodopes there is a government that takes care of it. Why? You just said: "Here is the state, there are the privates, but the control is in your hands! " You're the government. There's disaster services, there's a district manager, there's enough administration on the ground. See what it feels like to be a forest in the Rhodopes. [[Shows picture.]] That's it! See how people move in winter: with fear, the car goes under, a bus with children goes under the overhanged trees. [[Shows picture.]] And you say: we have no procedure, no bureaucracy, no mechanisms. There's an order for disasters and accidents not to fall these trees in winter on children travelling buses on ambulances. You must create a feeling that the state has a government, ministers and is responsible for the security of both the state and the security of the people and the Bulgarian forest. That's what worries me. I must urge you to become Minister of the Forest as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u309	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u310	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Yankova! I've said enough specific numbers. There is no government that has taken more measures to protect the Bulgarian forest! I've ordered them many times. That is why, from the companies working in the forests, we had the first protests against exactly the measures that our government took to curb illegal logging and illegal activities in the forests. A southern central enterprise shall do its best and shall be on a schedule as possible to absorb this mass. Dear Mrs. Yankova, if I have to draw a parallel, your government has become famous for the forests with the 19:45 scheme! Not ours! That's how you used to use the forest. There is no other government that has taken such measures to combat illegal activities. If we take your example, you should have said this in your term of office to your deputy minister, who became nationally known for the 19:45 scheme. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-04.u311	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva, for your participation today in Parliament's legislative programme and parliamentary control. The time, definitely for him, is over. I'm shutting down the plenary day. The next regular meeting is next week, 9 December, starting at 9.00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
