ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u1	Hey, guys, good morning! Please register. Abort registration. 2nd attempt "9.10 a.m. (9,10)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u2	Colleagues, please take your seats. Abort registration. 3rd attempt 9:30 a.m. (Discovered at 9:31 p.m.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u3	We have a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. One message: On 30 September 2015 the National Statistical Institute received information about the general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at domestic producer prices for August 2015. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, in yesterday's plenary session, we started the debate following the presentation of the reports on: THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROCUREMENTS at first reading. Are there any MPs who wish to take part in the bill? Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! My note here, from the stand, refers to a moment we discussed in the last term of the National Assembly. It's about art. 13 in the new Law, and in the old Law is art. 4 where research is pleaded not to be able to tender as public procurement but to be with direct agreements, which is all over Europe and all over the world. There the wording was such that the field archaeological studies concerning infrastructure are given as a public procurement and this blocked the work of the Road Infrastructure Agency. Me and my colleague then Tomislav Donchev tabled an amendment which was unanimously voted by parliament, where there was a special text on this issue. Now in this Law, this text has dropped out for reasons unknown to me and the same case is formulated as in the old Law, which again poses the same problem. I cannot understand why this has happened, I have not spoken to Tomislav Donchev, perhaps next week from him I will understand why, but I would like to say that at second reading I will introduce the same amendment and I hope that the College of Members from the Commission, as well as the Legal Committee, and you in the Parliament will also vote on this problem, which does not concern archaeologists so much, but mainly the Road Infrastructure Agency, because it blocks and delays the public procurement from which the Agency was losing money, and rather large sums. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u5	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. - What's the line? Mr. Kirilov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Honorable Professor Stanilov, a very short line. We generally accept your thesis, but it is beyond the scope of the specific bill. A brand new and comprehensive draft Public Procurement Act has been introduced, where we believe this issue will be regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u7	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u8	I have read the new project and in my speech that is exactly what I have said to you. "This question has been formulated in art. 4 and now it's in art. 13. There the wording is the same as in the old Law and this problem will not be solved without a second reading amendment. I guess the group that worked the project just missed that problem. It is very important and I hope it will be resolved in the Second Reading Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u9	Mr. Stanilov, you're talking about the whole new draft of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u10	To the whole new guy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u11	He's not a subject at the moment of this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u12	So I'm confused.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u13	We are currently discussing a bill amending and supplementing the current Public Procurement Act. There is a whole new Law in production where, naturally, this issue will be debated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u14	Got it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u15	Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the debate on this bill in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy took place on 24 July 2015. What is, however, the main problem that I think should be taken into account today? Because really the design of the proposed changes, especially in art. 16 years, the Public Procurement Act is to prevent abuses that took place during the last one year from July 2014 to July 2015. In other words, people with companies registered as companies of disabled people can abuse their right to take 10% of this type of public procurement according to European requirements. What, though, was established during this debate? I want to pay attention to these moments because I think they are the important moments. I am not convinced that with the amendments to the Law, apart from one, it is right for the Public Procurement Agency to go to the Ministry of Finance, so that there may be a register of all companies that will participate in public procurement to be checked, as well as possibly subcontractors. What we have found in the debate is that there is actually no prior control. I'll give you an example to make it clear. By law, a company like this must have hired at least 10% of its staff with disabilities. However, if you are a small enterprise with 10 employees and you yourself are a disabled person who owns the documents, you register the company in your name, and already this company meets the requirements. But you don't have the capacity to execute the relevant procurement. Moreover, from there goes a vicious process of hiring subcontractors who do not have people with disabilities at all, which is the intention of hiring as many people with disabilities as possible and thus integrating into society. Very often comes to the worst result, and it is a suspension of procedures, a waste of a great deal of time and the worst loss of funds and resources. I really hope that in the next, in the big bill many of these things will be foreseen and resolved. We will support today the First Voting Bill, but I note again that things will be decided here on a sub-normative basis with the rules of application of law, with regulations of regulation or regulations of preventive and subsequent control. Because that's where the real problem is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u17	Replices to Mr. Bayraktarov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! I will support my colleague from the Patriotic Front in his statement that it is really necessary to consider in the big law a little bit to close this wide open door for possible abuses that could occur through companies and associations for people with disabilities. Perhaps the key is on the list that approved the Council of Ministers with the codes and positions with which these companies can appear. They are infinitely many from the delivery of tomatoes to software, construction activities, including fourth category objects under the Law on Construction of the Area. I don't know how to issue construction permits for these types of companies. In my opinion, the key is to specify the list approved by the Council of Ministers for the positions in which these companies may appear. There is not any analysis that shows from the volume of activities that they received last year how really they go as salaries to people with disabilities, which is the purpose of this opportunity in the Law. If, let's say, quite conditionally speaking, there's a volume of 100 million. lv. Each year in a similar type of company, they gave only 200 "300,000." lv. They're going for the disabled? When we look at the Great Law, perhaps we should consider mechanisms to establish these things. We will support the Bill at first reading, because there is a good experience there, for example, to limit the hiring of subcontractors without control. It is now said that they should also be registered with the Agency at the Social Ministry, but the tendency to use this loophole is really great. I think there are nearly 300 such companies registered in the country, who are already seeking their rights... appeal for contracting procedures and ask why the order is not placed in the special order......................................................................................................... Believe me, it is very difficult for a contracting entity, I will give an extremely simple example of the construction of kindergarten, as it is written in the Law at the moment, it must remove separate positions, say delivery of wooden doors or window frames in kindergarten. Then what's going on? What does the great, chief performer who appears on general grounds do, what will he bid on only work?! It becomes extremely difficult to predict the value of the object, it becomes extremely difficult to manage the implementation of the object itself. So let's think about what should be done in the big law in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u19	Thank you, Mr. Markov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. They voted 116 MPs: 94, none, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u20	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I was going to make a procedural proposal in an alternative form to propose to you, in view of the indisputability and absence of applications, of proposals for changes between first and second readings, to propose that we move to a second reading on the texts that are clearly indisputable at this stage. If this proposal is not accepted, please and I propose to adopt a shorter deadline for proposals between first and second readings, namely a four-day period between first and second reading, which will expire on Monday at the end of the working day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u21	I understand you're making two procedural proposals?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u22	In an alternate relationship.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u23	They're not in an alternative relationship, they're in a conditional relationship: if the first one isn't supported, then you're proposing the second one, not to choose one of the two. [[Laughter, excitement.]] Is there a reverse opinion of the motion to vote on two readings in this plenary sitting of the Bill? Colleagues, I think it's become clear and prof. Stanilov, and Mr. Bayraktarov, and Mr. Markov said that the essential work will be on the whole new law that we should consider. In order for that to happen, we must have been promulging this ZID. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal for a simultaneous vote in a plenary sitting at first and second reading of this bill. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 117 MPs: 85 against 4, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. You have the floor for second reading. Read the Bill in full, as by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! Thank you for supporting this proposal. THE LAW OF THE amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the words.......................................................................................................... § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The Council of Ministers may establish, by decree, central public procurement bodies or entrust such functions to an executive body. 2. In para. 5 the words for its creation shall be replaced by the words referred to in para. 4............................................................................................ § 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16d the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: Where part of the subject-matter of the contract is included in the list under para. 1, the contracting entity shall be obliged to separate it into one or more lots that it retains for the participation of specialized undertakings or cooperatives of disabled persons. 2. A new para is being created. 3: The contracting authority shall apply para. 2 and when assigning a contract under the order of Chapter 8 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it, in the main text, the words "al." 1.. 3.. are replaced by............................................................................................. 1, 2 and 4 and after the word "Announcement', a comma shall be added to the public call. 5. A new para is being created. 6: In the cases referred to in para. 5 applications or tenders may also submit other interested parties other than those for which the contract is reserved. 6. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 7 and is amended as follows: In the cases referred to in para. 1 and 2 the applicant or participant which is a specialised undertaking or cooperative of disabled persons shall indicate in the application or in its offer the number under which it is entered in the register of specialised undertakings and cooperatives of disabled persons maintained by the Agency for Persons with Disabilities or information on registration in an equivalent register of a Member State of the European Union. 7. A new para is being created. 8. In the cases referred to in para. 4 The applicant or participant meeting the requirements of a secure job creation programme shall submit to its application or offer a document certifying that. 8. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 9 and amended as follows: supposes or tenders of the persons referred to in para. 6 shall be considered only if there is no: 1. a candidate or participant for whom the order is reserved and meeting the selection criteria; or 2. a participant for whom the contract is reserved and whose tender meets the requirements of the contracting entity. 9. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 10 and amended as follows: The applicant or participant who is a specialised enterprise or cooperative of disabled persons may participate in a public procurement under para. 1 or for a separate position under para. 2, provided that it can fill 80 percent of its object with its own production or resource. Where self-execution is not possible in this volume, it may use subcontractors or refer to the resources of third parties, provided that they are specialized undertakings or cooperatives of disabled persons, for which information is provided under para. 7. § 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: In carrying out public procurement policy, the Minister of Finance shall be assisted by the Public Procurement Agency, hereinafter referred to as "the Agency." 2. In para. 2 after the word "supplier" is added. 3. Alinea 3 is canceled. § 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122p, para. 1 and 9 the words......................................................................................................... Additional provision § 6. All over the law, except for art. 13, para. 3, the words "the Minister of Economy" and "the Minister of Economy" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Finance" and "the Minister of Finance" respectively. Transitional and final provisions § 7. Public contracts opened on the grounds of art. 16 years, for which a decision on opening or public invitation has been published before the entry into force of this law shall be completed in the current order. § 8. Within three months of the entry into force of the Act, the Council of Ministers shall adopt changes to the relevant regulations resulting from the transition of the Public Procurement Agency to the Minister of Finance. § 9. The Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy shall deal with each other the issues arising from the change in the status of the Public Procurement Agency as a secondary authorising officer with a budget to the Minister of Finance within three months of the entry into force of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u25	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there editorial proposals such as are eligible for second reading when discussing and voting on a bill? I won't. I put to a second vote the name of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement, paragraphs 1 to 9 including, including, the name of the units. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 101 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR THE AGENCY OF REGISATION, No 554-01-48, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015. We're listening, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u26	????????????????????? The Commission shall support the text of the importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. This law governs the structure, activities and functioning of the State Agency for Intelligence, hereinafter referred to as.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. (1) The State Agency is a security service directly subordinate to the Council of Ministers. (2) The State Agency is a legal person of budget support based in Sofia and the Chair of the Agency is a senior authorising officer with a budget. (3) The State Agency shall participate in the activities of the intelligence communities of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and of the European Union (EU). Under art. 3 has a proposal from the National Representative Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Philip Popov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: Art. 3. (1) The State Agency shall acquire, process, analyse, prepare assessments and forecasts, store and provide intelligence information under the terms and conditions of this law. (2) Intelligence information within the meaning of this Law shall be any information acquired by the Agency for foreign countries, organisations and persons or related Bulgarian organizations and persons relevant to the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u27	Colleagues, statements on the name of the Law, Chapter 1 I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law, the name of Chapter 1 "General situations" and members with numbers from 1 to 6 inclusive. We vote. Voted 103 MPs: 100 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u28	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7. Under art. 8 has a proposal from the National Representative Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Lazarov, Hristov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. The activities of the State Agency are: 1. acquisition, storage, processing, aggregation, analysis and provision of intelligence; 2. carrying out of intelligence operations; 3. research and selection of candidates for employees; 4. research of candidates for employees and employees in order to establish their reliability for handling classified information and issuing permissions for access to classified information; 5. protection of employees and persons who cooperate or have cooperated with the Agency, as well as former staff of the Agency; 6. protection and protection of sites provided to the Agency for or in connection with the performance of its activities; 7. securing the security of the overseas representations of the Republic of Bulgaria under conditions and by order defined by an act of the Council of Ministers; 8. developing and maintaining ready for implementation of a mobilization plan, a wartime plan, a plan to bring peace into martial law and maintain a mobilization reserve; 9. information exchange and interaction with other state authorities; 10. cooperation with related foreign authorities and services; 11. investigation of candidates for public procurement related to access to classified information concerning the Agency, its activities and employees in order to issue access permits and security certificates; 12. creation and maintenance of an independent operational archive; 13. the construction and maintenance of its own automated information system for collecting, processing, storing and internal information exchange; 14. the development and use of its own cryptographic keys, means and systems for protecting information under the law and within its competence; 15. establishment and organisation of an independent electronic communications and cryptographic security unit between the Agency and the overseas representations of the Republic of Bulgaria and other departments; 16. other activities defined by law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u29	Statements on the name of Chapter 2 "Functions and activities." Is there an organisation, tools and means for their implementation, Articles 7, 8 and 9? I won't. We vote on the name of Chapter Two, together with Articles 7, 8 and 9 inclusive. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u30	Article 10. Proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev: I'm gonna need you to get me out of here, and I'm gonna need The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: Art. 10. The implementation of the Agency's activities shall be ensured by: 1. use of special intelligence means in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under conditions and by order defined by the Special Intelligence Means Act; 2. use of intelligence tools and tools outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under conditions and by order defined by the President of the Agency; 3. attracting cooperation of persons under conditions and by order defined by the President of the Agency; 4. the use of legal entities for the covering of the Agency, including through the establishment and use of official documents for the cover, under conditions and by order laid down by an act of the Council of Ministers; 5. use of the cover of the Agency's staff under conditions and by order defined by an act of the Council of Ministers; 6. the use of the cover of items and objects of the Agency, including by drawing up and using official documents for their cover, under conditions and by order defined by an act of the Council of Ministers; 7. drawing up and use of documents for foreign identity and other official documents necessary to cover the Agency's staff carrying out operational intelligence activities, under conditions and in accordance with a decision of the Council of Ministers; 8. the development and use of its own special equipment and systems to ensure its operational activities and to communicate under conditions and in order specified by the Chair of the Agency; 9. assistance and obtaining information from state authorities, organisations and persons; 10. protection against unauthorised access of classified information collected, processed and stored by the Agency and protection of service correspondence.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u31	Statements? Mr. Enchev, you have an unsupported proposal for him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u32	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! Too bad this isn't an E.D. The Director of the Military Information Service, who, I hope, will not be elected. I am making a fundamental remark to art. 10. I propose art. 10, t. One down. It reads: Art. 10. The implementation of the Agency's activities shall be ensured by: "1." use of special intelligence resources in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under conditions and by order defined by the Law..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This point really needs to be dropped because it contradicts art. 5 in the same Law, which states that the State Agency is not entrusted with internal policy tasks. If you vote in this National Assembly. 1 of art. 10 to stay here is not well said, I do not suggest dropping the entire article. 10, only on t. 1, this means that Military information is given the legitimate right to work in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and this activity is entered into a Coliseum [[sighs]] by art. 5, which states that you cannot work in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. [[Replying from the hall.]] Please don't stop me from speaking. Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u33	Don't call from the gym, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u34	I ask you to listen to the voice of reason, especially in the voice of art. 5 which we have voted on and has already been adopted, because otherwise I will say that you are resurrecting the demon of creepy, Satanized State Security, and you are legitimizing it. Moreover, in my previous speech at first reading, I stated something that had to be disproved or accused of perjury, I said that until 1996, as an employee of the National Intelligence Service, I had information that both NRS and the Military Information Service. This is my proposal and I ask you to put it to the vote because it is in the interest of democracy, for which you so much plead in the central, and especially you in the right-hand side of the House.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u35	Mr. Enchev, thank you. Of course I'll put it to the vote. Your proposal on the Commission's report is for the whole Article 10 to be put to the vote. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Enchev, first of all, let me make a note that we are looking at the State Agency Bill, not military intelligence. This one first. Secondly, it is you who is too untenable to make such a proposal because you know the methods and methods of work of the intelligence services. I would like to ask you: if an object of the Intelligence Service is a foreign citizen located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and contacts, how will his conduct be controlled unless there is permission to use special intelligence means? Apart from that, the use of special intelligence resources in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria by the Intelligence Service will take place in accordance with the Special Intelligence Funds Act. So it is absolutely untenable that this proposal of yours is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u37	Thank you. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Enchev, the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u38	Yes, Mr. Atanasov, you're right. I apologize. It's a lapsus. It's a language error. I meant the foreign intelligence of Bulgaria, not the military, I correct myself. Let me get this straight, I'm repeating one more time in art. 10, para. 1, I mean only ) (a.k.a. 1, to clarify that the National Intelligence Service will not apply these techniques because for this purpose there is another service...................................................................................... This is my correction and I think it does not prevent it from being changed in this way. Let's not drop it. 1, but an adjustment that this is not carried out by this office, which works only on the territory of foreign countries.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u39	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, we are voting on the unsupported proposal by the Commission of the National Representative Velizar Enchev for the dropping of art. 10. They voted 107 MPs: for 4, against 78, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 10 as amended by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Mr Lutvi Mestan, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The dynamics of geopolitical processes are such that the world changes not for days, but for hours. We are facing perhaps the worst geopolitical crisis in recent decades. The New York Summit has shown that it is difficult to say, perhaps more precisely, it is impossible to achieve a common position within the United Nations Security Council on the crisis in the Middle East, perhaps we should add the Ukrainian crisis. After the meeting of the presidents of the two superpowers: of the United States, Barack Obama, and of Russia, Vladimir Putin, it became clear that the two presidents, respectively, have different positions to solve the problem with the Islamic State. President Obama is in a firm position that the solution to the issue of the Islamian State is going through the removal of Syrian dictator Bashar Assad, while Russia's position, expressed by Putin, is that this crisis can be overcome with the participation of Bashar Assad. In this situation, the question arises legitimately: how to protect the interest of the European Union and our common Euro-Atlantic space? What is the position of Bulgaria itself? It's a very important question! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is in a firm position that the protection of the European Union's interest and of the common Euro-Atlantic space cannot be solely the responsibility of the heads of Brussels. This is the responsibility of each Member State. We must have our very clear position on these issues. Right now, the act of Syrian dictator Bashar Assad and the atrocities of this illegitimate institution of Islam, a refugee crisis, is passing Bulgaria by, but how long will it last? I hope nobody in this room and nobody in Bulgaria is so naive to imagine that Bulgaria can remain an island of security. Therefore, in view of the need to draw up a clear Bulgarian national position with which the Bulgarian Heads of State to participate in the summits in Brussels and in other international organisations, we call on the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Rosen Plevneliev to convene on purpose a meeting of the Advisory Council on National Security. Bulgaria can actively participate in the process of developing a common, solid, decisive position of the European Union. In this sense, I would like to remind you that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has developed a comprehensive concept as a response to the refugee crisis. Already at the beginning of the year, in a letter to the leaders of the liberal parties, we presented our clear thesis that the most adequate response to the crisis is the enlargement of the European Union's security area by continuing the enlargement of the European Union towards the Western Balkans and Southeast Europe. At the annual regional meeting of liberal leaders from Eastern Europe, this position was supported by consensus in the form of a declaration. Furthermore, the need for the European Union to expand to the Western Balkans has also received its very high institutional support in the letter of the Presidents of Slovenia and Croatia to Mr Donald Tusk, in which a letter highlights that Europe must include its enlargement to the Western Balkans in its new priorities, because the Western Balkans outside the European Union generate more uncertainty and threats to the European Union than if they become an integral part of the Union itself. For now, we are merely presenting in summary our overall concept. Of course, at the meeting of the Advisory Council with the President, if such a meeting is called, we will also present our overall concept. Thank you for your attention. We expect reactions from the leaders of the other parliamentary groups and respectively the Head of State. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from SG to DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u41	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Request for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria received. Mr. Merdjanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! On behalf of BSP's parliamentary group left Bulgaria, I say that we also join a similar request of colleagues from the DPS Parliamentary Group, all the more so that we insist that the Advisory Council on National Security should be convened long ago by the President, first of all, on the refugee crisis and a number of other important issues that stand before the Bulgarian state. But along with international policy, we believe that domestic policy is no less important, so the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria insists on the resignation of Nikolay Nenchev and his immediate removal from the post of Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria. Our call is addressed to Mr. Nenchev himself, of course, but above all to Prime Minister Borisov and the supporting government political formations. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have any sense of duty left, at least a little sense of responsibility, you will support us to end the mockery with the Bulgarian Army and together to try, as far as possible, to deal with the consequences of the disastrous management of the sector in the last year and a half. We ourselves in the BSP Parliamentary Group did not come to this so easily. We are fully aware of the international and internal dangers that strain Bulgaria. The whole world is goosebumped, frozen by the risks of a major military conflict. That is why Bulgaria needs a worthy, solid and trusting military minister. And let each of us, with our hand on the heart, answer for himself: Is this Minister Nenchev? With his clumsy behavior he failed the last meeting of the Advisory Council for National Security. Rosen Plevneliev, who stubbornly refused us the MPs from BSP, gathered such a Council on 27 April 2015. There Nenchev had to convince us that more money was needed for defence. Despite the President's support, he failed to convince us, as opposition, nor the Prime Minister, and came to the absurd situation when proposing an increase, to agree on a reduction in the budget. Remember that instead of taking responsibility for his failure, Mr. Nanchev had organized a rally in support of his party, who yelled: Tell me, is this decent behavior? In June, only a month after the unfortunate meeting, Nenchev went to a meeting of the military ministers in Brussels. At the same time, the US Defence Minister announced that heavy fighting equipment would be located in Bulgaria, Romania, Poland, Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia. Nenchev denies agreeing to such a thing. He had spoken to the American ambassador in Sofia, she had said something, but he didn't understand her. A diplomatic scandal follows in which a government, a president and a minister give explanations and the ambassador of the United States left the country. Say: are these positions of a solid minister? As for trust, I recall that Minister Nenchev was caught in a lie. He proved to be lying, claiming he was being offered a bribe. Proven because in the case an investigation was organised, terminated by a decree of the prosecution, in which it writes, I quote: The explanations provided by Nikolai Nenchev during the verification were not credited as reliable, as they were not confirmed by the other data collected under the complaint. After the bill published yesterday, however, according to which foreign military aircraft will protect our airspace, the bribe story seems to be acquiring new, much more serious dimensions. The unwinded minister's imagination seems not only to have been an innocent PR action, but a targeted attempt at manipulation. Nikolay Nenchev lied in order to convince the public that the Russian counterparty of the Ministry of Defence, who is responsible for the maintenance of our aircraft, is indecent that he is using illegal methods and it is not right to work with him. He wanted to justify his unkind desire to entrust the MiGs to another country, not Russia. Who does not explain to Minister Nenchev and MPs and experts and pilots that Poland does not have a license for such repairs, that Russia will not take a guarantee for these machines, that we risk compromising these planes. Then our failure in combat aviation will be brought to its knees anyway. True, the breakdown of the army air force at our borders is a process not today, but Minister Nenchev is determined to complete it, and the announced bill yesterday looks like the final of a pre-prepared process for granting powers to foreign forces in the Bulgarian airspace. Who needs this?! We're already entitled to protection in the event of an attack by virtue of art. 5 of the Alliance Treaty?! BSP is not against Bulgaria's membership in NATO, the opposite is the party that has the most serious contribution to our accession to the European Union. BSP is and will remain both in the European Union and NATO, firm in defending the country's international commitments, but they do not contain Bulgaria's refusal from its sovereign right to protect its territory on its own. Bulgaria, which was up to recently proud of its air force and the exploits of military aviation, cannot allow it to ruin its abilities because of the rapture of an unprepared minister. Nenchev's resignation is not just a ruse. It should be interpreted as a sign that the government is finally aware of the complexity of the situation and that our country is ready to participate constructively in the search for solutions not just as a consumer of security, as we are defined by a recent NATO report, but as a factor that, due to its geostrategic and cultural characteristics, can contribute to calming tensions. In a word, the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria proposes to try to turn Bulgaria into a place of reconciliation instead of a front line. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u43	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. Any other affidavits to close the circle of affidavits? I can't see. We're moving on to the Bill. Mr. Lazarov, you are about to report Art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, please, before I report to Art. 11, to put to the vote to the House Major General Dragomir Dimitrov, Director of the Intelligence Service, and General Samandov, a Security Advisor to the President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u45	Thank you. A reverse opinion? I can't see. Honourable Members, I am voting for admission in the Chamber of the proposed two representatives of the Security Agency. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Please ask the Quaestors to request that the two people voted be admitted into the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u46	Article 11 supposed by the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11 t. 1 and 4 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: Art. 11. (1) The Agency shall provide intelligence information to: 1. the President of the National Assembly; 2. the President of the Republic; 3. the Prime Minister and the Ministers; 4. other state bodies designated by an act of the Council of Ministers. (2) The Agency shall provide the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly and the Prime Minister with the same information in volume and content.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u47	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. First, we are voting unsupported by the Commission a proposal from the MP Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs. Vote 82 MPs: 11 against 54, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's edited art. 11 and supported by it. Vote 80 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u48	Article 12 supposed by the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: Art. 12, t. 1 to be absorbed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: Art. 12. The President of the Republic may: 1. place tasks of the Agency in agreement with the Prime Minister; 2. request and receive information and opinions from the Chair of the Agency on matters relating to defence and national security; 3. get acquainted with and take account of the annual report on the Agency's activities prior to its submission by the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly for adoption. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u49	Thanks, so far. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Enchev, by art. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u50	It is about the proposal of the MPs Atanas Merdjanov, Angel Naydenov, Dimitar Dubov, Ivan Ivanov, Atanas Zafirov and Krasimir Yankov. They offer in art. 12 t. 1 drop out, and it states that the President of the Republic can place tasks on the Agency in agreement with the Prime Minister. Once we have decided by this Law that Bulgaria's national intelligence will be subject to the Prime Minister's submission, the following question is asked: why, with this point, which I fully support and it must be dropped, do you place the intelligence on a double charge of the Prime Minister and the Head of State? On this occasion, let me remind you that today is exactly 100 years since the inclusion of Bulgaria in World War I. Here is perhaps the time and time to honor the memory of these Bulgarian warriors who in the First World War gave their lives for the national cause of Bulgaria, but, unfortunately, the wrong country, as well as the Second World War, because of the criminal policy of the Saxe-Coburg family and their supporting governments, but this is another topic. Let me remind you that in 1913 it was precisely because of the double command of the General Staff of the Army, the so-called Union War, that both the Commander-in-Chief Ferdinand and the Chief of Staff issued different orders to our troops on the Serbian and Greek front, that the catastrophe occurred in 1913, when we experienced the first national catastrophe, precisely because of the double submission. If you do not accept the proposal of BSP colleagues to drop point one and the President of the Republic cannot place tasks on the Agency so that it is subject to double submission, we risk the Bulgarian national intelligence to have two principals - the Prime Minister and the President. I ask you very much, learned from the historical experience, and also from the practical need, that this point be dismissed and that we support the proposal of BSP colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u51	Thank you. - What's the line? Here's a line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Enchev, we have already adopted a text before that the State Agency is subordinate to the Council of Ministers. Notice the text proposed for the vote, the President can place tasks in agreement with the Prime Minister, that is to say, on his own grounds, he cannot place tasks on his own. Otherwise, it is clear to everyone why the President needs this power, because he is one of the leaders of Bulgarian foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u53	Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u54	You're right, General. The President sets out tasks in the Bulgarian foreign policy, but then why did you take away the President's powers to lead and appoint the head of national intelligence and grant this right to the Prime Minister? It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u55	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u56	Don't call from the gym. If you want a statement. Thanks for the douche. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, we are voting on a proposal from the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 75 MPs: 7 against 51, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I put it to the vote once in a while. Art. 12 and Art. Art. 13 12 in the version of the Commission and art. 13 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: 71 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u57	"Chapter Three." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. "Department I ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. Under art. 14 has a proposal from Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14: Art. 14 (1) The State Agency is headed by a Chairman appointed by a decree of the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Council of Ministers for a period of 5 years. (2) The President may be reassigned to the same position only for a period of another 5 years. (3) The President shall be assisted by Vice-Presidents who shall be appointed by a decision of the Council of Ministers for a period of 5 years on a proposal from the President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u58	Statements? I can't see. We are voting together on the name of Chapter Three, the name of Section I 14, edited by the Commission and supported by it. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u59	Under art. 15 has a proposal of Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Metodi Andreev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15: Art. 15. The Chairperson and Vice-Presidents of the Agency may be appointed persons who: 1. have only Bulgarian citizenship; 2. have a higher education with an educational-qualification degree; 3. hold a 10-year professional experience in the national security protection system; 4. have not been convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature, regardless of rehabilitation, and have not been released from criminal liability for deliberate crimes of a general nature; 5. are checked for belonging to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army and the result of the verification is announced under the same law; 6. are not deprived of the right to take up a particular state office; 7. they have been granted permission to access classified information with a classification level "Strogo classified'; 8. not members of political parties or coalitions or political organisations; 9. are not sole traders, partners, managers, prosecutors or members of supervisory boards, management boards or boards of directors or in control bodies of commercial companies, cooperatives or non-profit entities engaged in business; 10. are not employed by employment or by service or by civil contract, except for carrying out teaching or research activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u60	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u61	Mr. Chairman, in support of the proposal made by BSP colleagues. Article 15, points (a) and (b) 3 states that a person must have a 10-year professional experience in the system of national security protection in order to hold the post of Chairman or Vice-President. To increase the deadline, as proposed, from 10 to 15 years. Let's assume one hypothesis: at 23 years old, you're assigned to the National Intelligence Service, and after 10 years when you're at By this Law, you can become Director of Intelligence. In order to be justified, I immediately give you the following reference: the average age in the European Union (I do not say NATO countries, as I have only consulted the European Union) for taking up the position of the Chief of Intelligence is 45 years, and in the UK it is much higher, and in the United States the average age for taking up the post of Director of the CIA, the National Security Agency and another 10 - 15 such services, especially to the Pentagon, the average age for occupying this post is over 55 years. By this logic, it seems to me that BSP colleagues are absolutely right. There must be a 15-year internship for the person to take the position of Chairman or Vice-President of the National Intelligence of Bulgaria. Indeed, rejuvenation is a necessity, I agree, it is a European trend, but not so much. However, to follow trends in other countries. As far as art. 15, which Mr. Metodi Andreev proposes, I have a concrete proposal and immediately deposit it: I agree to check for belonging to the State Security and intelligence services under the Access to Files Act, but to art. 15, p. 5 to add the following sentence: to check for participation in Masonic Lodges, secret organizations and the list of credit millionaires. Please, especially in this article, I would like the Bulgarian citizens to see how you will react, will you protect the members of secret organizations, a Masonic Lodge and, above all, the list of credit millionaires announced by this same Commission for the files? Will you declare yourself against this Committee on Files, which is entirely your creation and works against the national security of Bulgaria? In this particular case, with the list of credit millionaires, this is useful and you should support it. I hope for your support on this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u62	Is that after the last sentence?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u63	After the last sentence, a new sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u64	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. First, we are voting on a proposal from the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 79 MPs: 11 against 50, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the editorial proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev in art. 15, p. 5, at the end of t. 5 to add to the list of credit millionaires for participation in Masonic Lodges, secret organizations and the list of credit millionaires. Dear colleagues, we are voting on an editorial proposal from Mr. Enchev. Vote 79 MPs: 17 against 44 abstention 18. The proposal for editing is not accepted. Vote art. 15 by importer in the version of the Commission. We are voting in favour of an edited text supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u65	Article 16? a proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Atanas Merdjanov, Naydenov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. (1) The mandate of the Chair and Vice-Presidents of the Agency shall be terminated in advance: 1. at their request; 2. at the age of 63; 3. in the event of actual inability to fulfil their duties for more than 6 months; 4. in case of incompatibility with the requirements of art. 15; 5. in cases of serious infringement or systematic failure to comply with the duties of the Agency and in actions which undermine the prestige of the Agency; 6. upon the entry into force of an act establishing a conflict of interest under the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest; 7. in the event of death. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The mandate of the President shall be terminated by a decree of the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Council of Ministers and of the Vice-President by a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the President of the Agency. (3) Upon early termination of the mandate of the President, the Council of Ministers shall propose within one month to the President of the Republic to appoint a new President and, upon early termination of the powers of Vice-President, the Chair of the Agency shall propose within one month of the Council of Ministers to appoint a new Vice-President. (4) Until the appointment of a new Chairman, his functions shall be carried out by a Vice-President appointed by the Council of Ministers. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: Art. 17. The President of the Agency shall: 1. organise, manage and control the performance of the functions and activities assigned to the Agency; 2. represent the Agency; 3. draw up a draft budget of the Agency and manage its implementation; 4. organise, manage and control the spending of the special funds; 5. manage human resources and social policy; 6. establish an ethical code of conduct for civil servants in the Agency; 7. prepare and submit to the Council of Ministers annually by 31 March an annual report on the Agency's activities for the previous year; 8. manage the property and movable property provided to the Agency; 9. cooperate with partner services of other countries, international bodies and organisations; 10. implements other powers conferred on it by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u66	Statements under art. 16 and 17? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to a text. I will make a proposal now in this House and I think it is important that we realise it and support it. I propose in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 t. Two down. What's this about? According to this text, it is proposed to automatically suspend the powers of the President or Vice-Presidents at the age of 63. This is irrational, in my opinion, because in the field of intelligence, it is extremely important that people with great experience be used in executive positions. If it were said that they could be terminated, I would support it, but that they automatically cease, that is, the President and Vice-Presidents being dismissed from office at the age of 63, in my opinion, this is not wise. Apart from that, we all know that retirement age is growing. Please consider what I'm offering you. I think it's wise to drop that text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u68	Thank you, General. Atanasov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First we vote on the proposed by the National Representative Atanas Atanasov: in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 t. Two down. Vote 76 MPs: 70 against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Vote art. 16 as amended by the Commission with the newly adopted proposal made by Atanas Atanasov in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 t. Two down.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u69	Abort the vote. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Vote art. 17 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u70	Under art. 18 has a proposal from Lazarov and a group of MPs, which is generally supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18: Art. 18. (1) In the exercise of its powers, the President of the Agency shall draw up and submit draft regulations for adoption by the Council of Ministers and issue regulations, regulations, instructions and orders. (2) The acts of the Chair of the Agency for the selection of candidates for staff, for the admission of employees, and for the change or termination of covert relations with employees who, in the performance of their duties, occupy or hold positions in the public administration or carry out operational intelligence activities under another cover, shall not be subject to appeal. (3) The acts of the President of the Agency for the termination of service may be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal does not stop the execution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u71	Read her the next one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u72	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u73	Statements under art. 18 and 19? I won't. Anblok we vote art. 18 and 19. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u74	Under art. 20 there is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, which is not supported by the Commission. A proposal from the MP Metodi Andreev, which has been withdrawn. Proposal by Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u75	Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u76	I withdraw the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u77	You're withdrawing the offer. Statements? [[The National Representative Velizar Enchev wants the floor for speech on the proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] It's withdrawn, there's no such proposal. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov, Naydenov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 77 MPs: 5 against 54, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 20 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u78	Under art. 21 has a proposal from the National Representative Lazarov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal from the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and 3 and does not support it by t. 2...".................................................................. 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 2, with the other points Proposal by the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs.......................................................................................... 21 is amended as follows: Art. 21. (1) The Administrative Secretary shall assist the Chair and Vice-Presidents of the Agency in the exercise of their powers. He shall be directly subordinate to the Chair of the Agency. (2) In the exercise of its powers, the Administrative Secretary shall issue orders relating to the administration of the Agency or to separate structural units. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 21: Art. 21. (1) The inspector shall carry out control and other checks at the direction of the Chair of the Agency or on his own account with regard to: 1. compliance with the regulations and orders of the President of the Agency; 2. compliance with the internal order and discipline; 3. the prevention and establishment of conflict of interest; 4. compliance with the ethical code of conduct of employees; 5. the management and disposal of material resources; 6. the conditions, arrangements for carrying out and financial reporting of the funds for special costs; 7. working conditions; 8. management of human resources; 9. respect for fundamental rights and human freedoms; 10. Corruption risks and measures to limit them. (2) The inspector shall examine the proposals, alerts, complaints and applications submitted by natural or legal persons to the Chair of the Agency and shall draw up replies thereto. (3) The inspector shall not have the power to carry out financial control except for the control under para. 1, t. 5 and 6. For the activity under para. 1, t. 5 The inspector shall be assisted by the Agency's Internal Audit Unit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u79	Statements? [[Reply by MP Dimitar Dubov.]] You're absolutely right, Mr. Dubov, but if you don't formally withdraw it, I'm obliged to read it. So, please, and on further proposals that are already subject to the texts voted, to declare in due course that you are withdrawing them so that we do not waste time reading them. The proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs for changes in art. 21. Statements? I won't. Vote art. 21 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 78 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u80	Under art. 22 There is a proposal from the MP Atanas Atanasov, which has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Merdjanov, Naydenov and a group of MPs........................................................................................ Twenty-two to be dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 letter (s) and does not support it by c. 2. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be read in "2." In para. 2 the words "rights" are dropped. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: Art. 22. (1) The Chairperson of the Agency shall have the right to order the inspector not to initiate or terminate specific checks if this will lead to access to data on operational intelligence sources, methods and means, operational activities and intelligence operations. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The inspector shall have the right to report to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u81	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u82	I believe that the proposal of the gentlemen Dubov, Ivanov, art. 22 to drop, it is appropriate that after we have already voted, unfortunately, withdrawn, more precisely by Mr. Atanasov, the Chief of Inspectorate or the Inspector of the National Intelligence Service, and to be appointed on a proposal from the Chief of Intelligence, and to be released on a proposal from the Chief of Intelligence, and to be directly subordinate to the Chair of the Agency, which is not correct, but, unfortunately, Mr. Atanasov withdrew this proposal, which I did not support, we now understand that the inspector will be able to terminate an inspection, for example, for financial abuse, to be able to suspend a leak of classified information or for problems in operational work. Turns out the inspector's gonna be ordered by the head of intelligence not to do anything the head of intelligence doesn't like. And I ask myself the normal question: then why is there such an inspector who has no rights whatsoever which is directly subordinate to the head of intelligence and who can be released from the head of intelligence, of course, in agreement with the Prime Minister? In doing so, a formal right is given to the Inspector.. has the right to report to the Prime Minister if he does not agree with the decision of his principal... the Head of Intelligence, to terminate an inspection, as this was not good for national security. I ask again: are we appointing a puppet as an inspector in the National Intelligence Service, or a person who has every right to control in financial, administrative and special treatment, not just to observe and salute his superior? In that case, let us remove this service after you restrict it and after you have granted it exclusive rights and, unfortunately, as I was saying, which way, General. Atanasov withdrew his very good proposal. The inspector should not be directly subordinate to the President of the Agency and other similar very good ideas. I ask you very much to accept the proposal of the gentlemen Dubov, Ivanov, Atanas Zafirov and Krasimir Yankov, if we want to have real control over the work of the management of the National Intelligence and so that such relapses as have already taken place will not happen, at the signal of the current head of National Intelligence. If there was such an inspector as there should be now, be assured that this would not have happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u83	First line? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Enchev, Head of the State Agency for Intelligence, will be the President, not the inspector. This one, first. Secondly, extremely important, the inspector is appointed and dismissed by the Prime Minister and not by the President. It would be good in certain cases where the Chair responsible for the Agency's overall activity considers that an inspection of the inspector would jeopardise the interests of the State or of the agency concerned to terminate its work. I have withdrawn my proposal for nothing else, but because there is an explicit text stating that the inspector has the right to report to the Prime Minister if he is ordered by the Chair of the Agency something which he considers unlawful. So it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u85	Second line? Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u86	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, this is a new figure, albeit not legally, but the regulated activity of these services, and it is a necessary figure. In addition to what Mr. Atanasov said, you will see further, if you read the Law to the end, Mr. Enchev, that the inspector is obliged to produce an annual report, in which of course the report to the Prime Minister will describe what he has examined in cases where, apart from having the right to engage the Prime Minister, he will also describe cases where such checks have been terminated. But I think that at least you should raise this issue, bearing in mind that sometimes a check, albeit for financial insurance, would lead to this stage. The verification may subsequently be carried out as it is generally done by the financial control authorities. At this stage, however, an examination would lead to disclosure of funds and methods or relationships with collaborators of the Agency which should not. That's the least we should be saying to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u87	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u88	I'll be very brief. Nonsense is the one controlled to control the controller, the one controlled to guide the controller, the one controlled to appoint, indeed with the agreement of the Prime Minister, the Controller. You understand the absurdity of all this. It's also about internal affairs. What a leak of information will happen and what a threat to national security will happen if the inspector has serious objections to financial, for example, do not give himself God, waste of the President or in carrying out special operations that do not meet national security. I don't see anything wrong. That's why I say again: one can't check, one can't control, one can't control it, one can't control it, one can't control it, one can't control it, one can't control it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u89	Mr. Dubov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! And at first reading, and now I'm going to repeat, this position is very controversial and from everywhere, it's hardly necessary. It is borrowed from the structure of the Central Intelligence Agency, where it has a position of Inspector-in-Chief, but this position in the structure there has been developed in a very different way. The inspector is appointed by the President and accountable to the President, and informs the President of the United States. With us, as you can see, the inspector is neither fish nor cancer. It shall be appointed by the Prime Minister on a proposal from the Chair and shall carry out tasks assigned to it by the Chair of the Agency. The logical question is: why, then, is it necessary to have this position, since there are vice-presidents, there are directorates of directorates and so on? For this reason, we believe that since it is not developed in the structure in a way that gives an independence from the point of view of information coming out of the Agency, it makes no sense to have such a position at all and to describe these activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u91	A line to Mr. Dubov? The line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Dubov, I'm taking a line to tell you that this position is absolutely necessary. If he had such a position, Kircho Kirov wouldn't have been convicted for embezzlement of 5 million. lv. Have you found out what this position is necessary for?! And I wonder how you can resist this circumstance?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u93	Second line? A hole, Mr. Dubov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u94	Mr. Atanasov, if there has to be someone who can monitor the finances, let's call it a reviewer or some other name to give it to him. However, this is not just about control over the Agency's finances. As far as we can see, a considerably larger scope is envisaged, which, in my opinion, puts him in an awkward position, even the Vice-Presidents of the Agency, who should have similar views. That is, if you believe that this position should control the Agency's finances, let it have a different name and be assigned, develop, describe as it should and control this money, or who are used for agency needs in a way that provides sufficient clarity that they have gone their intended purpose.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u95	Any other MPs? There are no speakers. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and the dropout group. 22, which the Commission does not support. 70 MPs voted: for 6, against 54, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mr. Metodi Andreev's proposal in the part where he has not been withdrawn and is not supported, namely in para. 2 words have the right to drop. We are voting on Mr. Metodi Andreev's proposal, not supported by the Commission. I appeal to my fellow Members who intend to withdraw their proposals to do so in due time. Vote 78 MPs: 4 against 28, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 22 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 73 MPs: 68 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u96	Under art. 23 has a proposal from the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: Article 23, drop it. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23. Under art. 24 has a proposal from the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MPs Merdjanov and a group of MPs art. 24 drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24. Under art. 25 has a proposal from the National Representative Atanasov. The motion has been withdrawn. There is a proposal from the MP Metodi Andreev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25: 25. (1) The financial control for the expenditure of the budgetary resources, without the special funds and expenditure of the Agency, shall be carried out by the Court of Auditors and by the Agency for State Financial Inspection, subject to the requirements of the Classified Information Protection Act. (2) The control of compliance with financial discipline and accountability in the expenditure of budgetary resources, including special funds and expenditure, shall be carried out under conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Chair of the Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u97	Colleagues, speeches under art. 23, 24 and 25? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs for dropping out of art. Art. 23, Art. 24. The Commission does not support these proposals. Vote 81 MPs: 8 against 57 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for members with numbers 23, 24 and 25 in accordance with the Commission's report. They voted 86 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u98	"Department II." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. Under art. 26 there is a proposal from the MPs Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 15 and doesn't support it in the rest. I'll read the unsupported part: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. 3 is amended as sevents shall carry out the functions and activities referred to in art. 7 and 8 in the following directions: 1. intelligence activity; 2. counterintelligence provision of intelligence activities; 3. information-analytic activity; 4. inspection of personnel and management of human resources; 5. legal and regulatory activity; 6. security and protection of classified information; 7. international cooperation; 8. operational report and archive; 9. financial accounting activity; 10. business activity; 11. security activities; 12. crisis management and defence-mobilization training; 13. analytical information and technical services; 14. internal audit; 15. internal administrative control; 16. processing of visual and current information. Proposal from the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26: Art. 26. (1) The Agency shall be organised in Directorates and departments. Other units may be established in the Directorates and departments by an act of the Chair of the Agency. (2) The name, internal organisation and functions of the units shall be determined by an act of the Chair of the Agency. (3) The units shall carry out the functions and activities referred to in art. 7 and 8, in the following directions: 1. reconnaissance and counterintelligence in and outside the territory of the country; 2. information-analytic activity; 3. management of human resources; 4. legal and regulatory activity; 5. security and protection of classified information; 6. international cooperation; 7. operational report and archive; 8. financial accounting activity; 9. business activity; 10. Security activities; 11. crisis management and defence-mobilization training; 12. information and technical services and computer systems; 13. internal audit; 14. Internal administrative control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u99	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Statements under the name of Section II "Structure" and under art. 26? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Merdjanov and a group in the unsupported part of the Commission. We are voting for unsupported proposals. Vote 88 MPs: 9 against 63 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, we vote on the name of the importer, supported by the Commission and art. 26 in the version of the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u100	Head of State. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. Article 27. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the SSC in art. 27, para. 7 down. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27: Art. 27. (1) The list of categories of information to be classified as professional secrecy shall be determined by order of the Chair of the Agency. (2) When exercising the right of access under the Personal Data Protection Act and the Public Information Access Act, the Agency shall not provide data for employees, persons cooperating with it, as well as for the Agency's operational intelligence activities. (3) The Agency shall establish and maintain its own archive and a special file for the storage of documents, information and data for foreign nationals. The documents, particulars and particulars to be included in the archives and files and the order of access to them shall be determined by order of the Chair of the Agency. (4) The Agency may refuse to provide information on its covert officers and on persons cooperating or cooperating with it in order to ensure the protection of interests, means and means of obtaining information. Article 28. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 28: Art. 28. (1) Personal data may be processed in the Agency. When processing personal data relating to the Agency's activities: 1. the consent is not requested and the natural person is not informed; 2. personal data shall not be provided to third parties; 3. the data shall also be stored after their processing has been completed within the time limits laid down by the controller of the personal data. (2) Personal data processed by other bodies may also be processed in the Agency and the data obtained in this way cannot be used for other purposes than the activities of the Agency. These data shall not be transferred to third parties. (3) Personal data under para. 1 and 2 shall be deleted if there is no longer a reason for keeping them under the law or in the execution of a judicial act. (4) The deletion of personal data shall take into account the nature of the personal data processed, the need to process until the completion of an investigation or legal procedure, the entry into force of a sentence or judgment, amnesty, rehabilitation or the expiry of the limitation prescribed by law. (5) The Chairperson of the Agency shall be the controller of personal data within the meaning of the Personal Data Protection Act, who shall assign the processing of personal data to officials designated by him. (6) The order for the processing of personal data shall be determined by an act of the Chair of the Agency. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30. "Chapter Five" The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33. "Chapter Six" The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six. "Department I" The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. Article 34. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2, and the proposal under point 2. 1 is withdrawn. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34: Art. 34. (1) Employees of the State Agency are: 1. civil servants under this law; 2. persons working in the employment relationship. (2) The status of civil servants shall be governed by this law. (3) The status of persons working in the employment relationship shall be governed by the Labour Code and this Law. (4) The Chair of the Agency shall be the body of appointment of civil servants and employer of employees of the employment relationship. He may assign to the Vice-Presidents and to staff with positions of responsibility in the Agency individual powers in the service, except for the appointment, the imposition of disciplinary penalties under art. 81, para. 1, t. 3.. 5 and termination of employment. (5) The Chair of the Agency may appoint staff under para. 1, t. 2 to carry out activities under art. 8. (6) The President of the Agency, the Vice-Presidents and the Inspector shall be civil servants under this law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 35. Article 36. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 36: Art. 36. (1) The civil servants shall, in accordance with the functions performed, the qualifications and professional experience held and the posts held shall carry out a public service at the Agency in one of the following ranks: 1. scouts: (a) Chief Intelligence Officer, senior staff; (b) Senior intelligence officer (c) scout (d) Jr. Intelligence Officer. 2. collaborators: (a) chief executive staff with control functions; (b) Service assistant. (2) The Ranges by para. 1 may have degrees reflecting the professional knowledge and experience of the employees, which are determined by the rules of application of the law. The rankings shall be awarded by the Chair of the Agency. (3) The Chair of the Agency shall validate the classification of the posts. Article 37. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2, and the proposal under point 2. 1 is withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 37: Art. 37. (1) The staff of the Agency shall not be entitled to be members of political parties, movements or coalitions for political purposes and to take action by service in order to violate their political neutrality. (2) The staff of the Agency shall not carry out propaganda and agitation activities for the benefit or harm of political parties, political movements or coalitions, trade union organisations and candidates. (3) The staff of the Agency shall not be obliged to declare their political, religious or ideological beliefs in relation to the occupation or performance of the service. (4) The staff of the Agency shall not refuse to fulfil the duties of service on religious, political and ideological grounds. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 41.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u101	Statements on Chapter 4 and the following to Art. 41 included? I won't. I shall put to the vote Chapter Four, Art. Art. 27, Art. Art. 28, art. Art. 29, Art. 30, Chapter 5 - Name, art. Art. 31, Art. Art. 32, Art. 33, Chapter 6th name, Section I with Articles 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40 and 41 anblock. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The next text is large volume. I'm calling a break until 12:00. Colleagues, I'd like to be at 12:00 sharp. The next texts for a second vote are coming up. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u102	The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. The managements of the parliamentary groups to organise the presence of colleagues. We're listening, Mr. Lazarov. The following article is inserted: 42.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u103	Under art. 42 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 42: Art. 42. (1) The civil servants of the Agency may not carry out any other public service except in cases defined by law. (2) The civil servants shall not carry out any activity incompatible with their office in the Agency. (3) Incompatibility with the Office of the Agency shall be available when civil servants: 1. are in an immediate hierarchic relationship of guidance and control with a husband or wife, or with a person with whom they are in actual cohabitation; 2. are sole traders, partners in a trading company, managers or executive members of a trading company, commercial agents, prosecutors, commercial representatives, liquidators or syndics; 3. engage in commercial activity; 4. work on an employment relationship or on a civil contract, except for carrying out teaching or research activities, after authorisation of the Chair of the Agency; 5. participate in management or control bodies of commercial companies; 6. are collaborators or undercover employees of other security services or public order services. (4) It shall not be regarded as a commercial activity within the meaning of para. 3, p. 3 ownership of shares, participation in cooperatives with agricultural land or forests and housing cooperatives. (5) Incompatibility with the Agency's office is not available in cases where the employee carries out the activities assigned to him under the conditions of disguise, as well as in the case of participation in non-profit legal entities designated for carrying out the public utility activity. (6) Within 7 days of the occurrence of the circumstances under para. 3 civil servants are required to submit a declaration. (7) The Chairperson of the Agency may, following written consent of the civil servant, temporarily post the civil servant to serve in another administration for a period of up to two years, with the possibility of a one-off extension of the posting period. (8) An employee working in an authority or body from the national security protection system may be appointed to the Agency if he is eligible for a post under this law and does not owe reimbursement of the costs of maintenance, training, qualification and/or re-qualification. Under art. 43 has a proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. 43 is out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall propose art. to be rejected as it is reflected in art. 43 47. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 44, which becomes Art. 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. Under art. 45 by importer there is a proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 45, which becomes art. 44: Art. 44. (1) Bulgarian citizens may be appointed to the Agency for civil servants who: 1. have higher education for the scouts, and secondary education for the collaborators; 2. are fit for public service in the Agency; 3. are not convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature, regardless of rehabilitation; 4. there is no disciplinary penalty imposed. 5. are psychologically suitable; 6. meet the specific requirements for taking up the post laid down by an act of the President; 7. shall be authorised to access classified information with a level of classification in accordance with the list under art. 37 of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information; 8. have not exercised the right to a pension for internship and age under art. Art. 68 or art. 69 of the Social Security Code. (2) No persons may be appointed to service the Agency whose spouse or person with whom they are in actual cohabitation, a family member in a straight line without restrictions, on a subject line to the second degree, including or by matchmaking to the second degree, including employees of the Agency. (3) The Fitness under para. 1, t. 2 is determined by: 1. the military medical authorities under conditions and by order designated by the Chief of the Military Medical Academy and the Chair of the Agency; 2. Lozenets hospital. Under conditions and by order defined by the director of the hospital and the Chairman of the Agency. (4) The psychological suitability for taking up a post in the Agency shall be determined under conditions and by order laid down by an act of the Chair of the Agency. (5) People who meet the requirements of para. 1, t. 3, 6 and 7. (6) The internship of the Agency, acquired in office for which higher legal education is required, shall be regarded as an internship in the speciality. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 46, which becomes art. 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47, which becomes Art. 46. Under art. 48 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 48, which becomes art. 47: Art. 47. (1) Upon taking up office, the employee shall submit a declaration of incompatibility, property status and income, conflict of interest and membership of a political party. (2) In the event of a change of circumstances under para. 1 Agency staff shall submit a declaration within one month of the change. (3) The forms of declarations, the conditions and procedures for their submission shall be determined by the President of the Agency. (4) The civil servants may not participate in the discussion, preparation and decision-making where they or persons associated with them are interested in the decision concerned or when they have relationship with the persons concerned giving reasonable doubts about their impartiality. (5) In the cases under para. 4 civil servants shall notify the President of the Agency in writing before the start or during the exercise of their power or duty by service. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49, which becomes art. 48. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50, which becomes art. 49, such as the words "art." The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 51, which shall become Article 51. 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 52, which becomes art. 51. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 53, which becomes art. 52. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 54, which becomes art. 53. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 55, which becomes art. 54. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 56, which becomes Art. 55, as in para. 5 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 57, which becomes art. 56. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 58, which becomes art. 57. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 59, which becomes art. 58, as in para. 3 words.............................................................................. The second paragraph is replaced by the following: 101....................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60, which becomes art. 59.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u104	That's it. Colleagues, speeches on Articles 42 and the following to art. 59 included? I won't. I shall put it to the vote: art. 42, the Commission's proposal to reject art. Art. 43, as it is reflected in art. Art. 47, Art. Article 43, the name of Section II, art. 44 on the Report, Art. 45, the name of Section III, art. 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58 and 59 members with the Commission's report numbers. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u105	Under art. 61 has a proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 61, para. 1 the words "retirement" shall be replaced by "to take action to deter, dispose and neutralize." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 61, which becomes art. 60.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u106	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Atanasov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 83 MPs: 13 against 41, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 61 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 60 in the Commission report. Vote 79 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Art. 1. 62, on which there is an additional Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u107	Under art. 62 has a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. With an additional I.V. report. No 553-26-23 of 11 September 2015, the Commission generally supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 62, which becomes Art. 61: Art. 61. (1) In the performance of their duties, the civil servants of the Agency shall be entitled to carry arms under conditions and in order laid down by an act of the President. (2) The employees of para. 1 may use weapons if absolutely necessary: 1. in the case of armed assault or threat with firearms; 2. in the cases referred to in art. 60 if the person resists or tries to escape. (3) When using weapons, the bodies under para. 1 are obliged to protect the life of the person against whom it is directed and not to endanger the life and health of others. (4) The bodies of para. 1 cease the use of weapons immediately after its legitimate purpose has been achieved. (5) After the use of weapons, the organs under para. 1 prepare a report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u108	Let's finish the extra report. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. Let's vote on art. 61 in the Commission's version of its supplementary report. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u109	Under art. 63 has a proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev. Sixty-three to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following wording: art. Art. 63, which becomes Art. 62: Art. 62. (1) In the case of detention of a person under art. 60, where absolutely necessary and detention cannot be carried out otherwise, the Agency's civil servants may use physical force and assistance if the person resists or tries to escape. (2) The aids are: handcuffs; rubber, plastic, assault and electroshock batons and utensils; rubber, plastic and shock bullet cartridges; vehicle braking devices; light and acoustic devices with a distraction effect. (3) The order of use of aid shall be determined by an act of the President of the Agency. (4) Physical force and aids shall be used after warning, except for cases of sudden attack. (5) The use of physical force and auxiliary means shall take into account the specific situation and personality of the offender. (6) When using physical force and auxiliary means the employees under para. 1 are obliged to protect health and to take all measures to protect the lives of those against whom they are directed. (7) The use of physical force and assistance shall be suspended immediately after its legitimate purpose has been achieved. (8) The use of physical force and assistance shall be prohibited in relation to visible minors and pregnant women.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u110	Let's stop here because there are unsupported proposals. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u111	Madam President, at first reading I said it, and I will repeat it again. 63 in which, you know, refers to the use of such aids as rubber, plastic, assault bullets and rubber cartridges, sensory lights, distracting sound devices. Yeah, it's really about fulfilling official duties with the Agency's site security. I agree here that it is necessary to use protective equipment for the Agency's security. But do you not agree that by reading these six, seven, eight paragraphs, some of them greatly disturb. I'm mostly worried about Al. 8 which prohibits the use of physical force and assistance in relation to visible minors and pregnant women. First, in general, art. 63 I can classify it as an excessive use of armed force inadequate with the real threat. But let's assume it's a real threat, and such a threat has emerged. Then para. Eight is absurd. It is absurd at this mutually exclusive absurdity because from a human point of view to enlist in para. 8 in the law that the use of such power against minors and pregnant women is prohibited is not particularly civilized. But from the point of view of security and from the point of view of experience in the Middle East in recent years, where just young children are used as suicides and visible pregnant women, and in fact terrorist women, are used as living bombs, then the question is asked is should this member be present, since indeed a visible pregnant woman and a minor may pose a real threat. I believe that art. 63, para. 8 must be dropped for these two reasons.. not particularly civilized sound and excessive use of armed force. At the same time, the opposite is due to the situation in the Middle East and in other crisis outbreaks that this is indeed a real danger that cannot be reported in a matter of seconds. In this sense, I think there should be an editing of art. 63 If not all, here I agree with the importers and make a slight correction, retreat, of art. 63, para. 8 must have this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u112	Any lines to Mr. Enchev? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Mr. Enchev's motion for rejection of art. 63 by importer. Please vote. Vote 82 MPs: 8 against 65 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 63 by importer, which becomes art. 62 in the version of the Commission report. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 80 MPs: 79 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u113	Section IV. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 64, which becomes Art. 63. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 65, which becomes art. 64. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66, which becomes Art. 65. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 67, which becomes Art. 66, as in para. 2 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 15 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 15 (2). In para. 64, paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 68, which becomes Art. 67. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 69, which becomes art. 68. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 70, which becomes art. 69. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 71, which becomes art. 70. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 72, which becomes Art. 71. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 73, which becomes Art. 72. Section V. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 74, which becomes Art. 73. Article 75 supposed by the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 75, which becomes Art. 74: Art. 74. (1) State officials of the Agency shall be entitled to the following types of leave: 1. regular paid annual leave of 30 working days; 2. additional annual leave paid per day for each year served for first category of work, as well as for equal service, but not more than 10 working days; 3. additional paid annual leave under art. 73, para. up to 12 working days; 4. additional paid annual leave in case of transfer of employment to another place of employment of up to three working days which cannot be compensated by monetary compensation; 5. unpaid leave up to 6 months for the entire public service period in the Agency; 6. unpaid leave for the time of internship under art. 294, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary; 7. unpaid leave for the time of running the election campaign and the time of taking up the electoral position. (2) Departures under para. 1 shall be respected for service under this law, except in the cases under para. 1, t. 6. (3) At the time of the annual leave paid, the civil servants of the Agency shall receive the basic monthly remuneration and the additional remuneration of a permanent nature, according to their size at the time of the start of the leave. (4) The compensation of the leave under para. shall be prohibited. 1, t. 1 "3" with cash compensation, except when the service is terminated. (5) An employee of the Agency who is the spouse of a long-term seconded staff member of the Agency may not take unpaid leave under art. 77 of the Diplomatic Service Act. (6) The order of use of leave shall be determined by an act of the Chair of the Agency. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 76, which becomes Art. 75. Section VI. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 77, which becomes Article 77. 76.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u114	Colleagues, statements under Section IV "Rewardes, material, health and social security of employees" and Articles 63 to 76 included? No. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the name of Section IV, Articles 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, the name of Section V 76. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u115	Article 78 supposed by the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: A new para. 78 is being created. 3: In exceptional cases, the Chair of the Agency may present to the Council of Ministers staff of the Agency to be offered for an order by the President of the Republic. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 78, which becomes Art. 77.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u116	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs. Vote 85 MPs: 12, against 59, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 78 by importer, which becomes art. 77 in the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 76, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u117	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 79, which becomes Art. 78. Section VII. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VII. Article 80 "The proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 80, which becomes Art. 79: Art. 79. (1) State officials of the Agency who have guiltyly violated their duties shall be punished by the penalties provided for in this law. (2) Disciplinary disorders are: 1. failure to comply with the provisions of this Law and with regulations issued on the basis of it, with the orders and orders of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Agency and of the direct directors; 2. failure to fulfil the duties; 3. non-compliance with the official powers; 4. non-compliance with the rules of the Ethics Code of Conduct of civil servants in the Agency; 5. non-submitting within the time limit of a declaration provided for in this Law; 6. exceeding the powers of service or using the service or covert relationship for the personal benefit or benefit of third parties. (3) The disciplinary liability shall be held independently of the civil, criminal or administrative criminal liability, if any. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 81, which becomes Art. 80. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 82, which becomes Art. 81. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 83, which becomes Art. 82. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 84, which becomes Art. 83, as in para. 1 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 in respect of the implementation of this The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 85, which becomes art. 84. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 86, which becomes Art. 85. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 87, which becomes Art. 86. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 88, which becomes Art. 87. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 89, which becomes Art. 88, as in para. 1 all over the words. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 in respect of the implementation of this Regulation. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 90, which becomes Art. 89. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 91, which becomes Art. 90, as in para. 1, t. 2 words.............................................................................. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VIII. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 92, which becomes Art. 91. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 93, which becomes Art. 92. The Commission shall support the text for art. 94, which becomes Art. 93, as in paragraphs 1 and 2, the words "Art." This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 95, which becomes Art. 94. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 96, which becomes Art. 95, as in paragraphs 1 and 3, the words "Art." This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 97, which becomes Art. 96. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 98, which becomes Art. 97. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 99, which becomes art. 98. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 100, which becomes art. 99. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 101, which becomes Art. 100. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IX.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u118	Please, this is it. Statements under Articles 78 to 100 on the Commission report together with the names of the relevant sections, including Section IX? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 78, "Division VII........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We vote, fellow Members. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u119	Under art. 102 supposed by the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 102, which becomes Art. 101: Art. 101. (1) The civil servant's office in the Agency shall be terminated: 1. at the age of 63; 2. when acquiring the right to pension under art. 69 of the Social Security Code, at the request of the employee or at the discretion of the appointing authority; 3. in the case of acquired and exercised pension rights, at the discretion of the appointing authority; 4. in the event of inadequacy of public service within the Agency; 5. at his request; 6. when the post is reduced; 7. in the event of failure or refusal of the employee to take up the post to which he has been reinstated, within 14 days of the entry into force of the judgment to revoke the order for termination of the service, except where that period is not respected for respectable reasons; 8. in the event of objective inability to perform its duties due to: (a) the entry into force of a judicial act imposing a prison sentence where the execution of the penalty has not been postponed under the Penal Code or punishment under art. 37, para. 1, t. 6 and 7 of the Penal Code and no disciplinary penalty is required. (b) receipt of the lowest overall assessment of the performance of the post in the attestation under art. 53; (c) when refusing to issue, withdraw the permission to access classified information or refuse the civil servant to submit research documents under the terms and conditions of the Classified Information Protection Act; (d) establishment of incompatibility in the cases referred to in art. 42, para. 1 and 3; (e) Inefficiencies in the performance of the job of cover - for employees of and undercover. 9. in the event of disciplinary punishment 10. within the test period, at the discretion of the appointing authority after an assessment of the performance of the post; 11. at the death of the civil servant; 12. when an act establishing a conflict of interest under the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest has entered into force; 13. when registering a civil servant as a candidate for an electoral body by political parties or coalitions. (2) The civil servant's office may be terminated by mutual agreement of the Parties, expressed in writing. The Party to which the proposal is addressed shall be obliged to take regard of it and to notify the other Party within 30 days. If she does not do so, the proposal is considered not accepted. (3) The termination of the service in the cases under para. 1, t. Art. 6 and 8 (d) 42, para. 3, p. 1 shall be permitted only if the employee refuses to take another proposed position within the rank and degree held or if he does not have a suitable unattended position. (4) The civil servants shall retain the rank held in the next appointment of state work to the Agency. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 103, which becomes art. 102. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 104, which becomes Art. 103, just like the words everywhere. The EU is responsible for the implementation of the Union's macro-financial assistance in accordance with Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as well as of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 105, which becomes Art. 104, like the words everywhere. The EU is responsible for the implementation of the Union's macro-financial assistance in accordance with Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as well as of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 106, which becomes art. 105, such as the words "art." The second paragraph is replaced by the following: 101....................................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. Article 107 is replaced by the following: 106: Art. 106. (1) The employee shall be acquainted with the order for termination of the service against signature. (2) The service relationship shall be terminated as from the date specified in the order, except in the cases of: 1. Art. 101, para. 1, t. 1 - from the date of the age of 63; 2. Article 101, para. 1, t. 11 - from the date of death; 3. Art. 101, para. 1, t. 13 - from the date of registration of the civil servant; 4. Art. 101, para. 2 from the date on which the Parties have reached mutual agreement. (3) The order for termination of service may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal shall not stop the execution. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 108, which becomes art. 107. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section X.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u120	So far, because further up, there are unsolicited proposals. Colleagues, are there any statements on Articles 101 to 107 including Section X? I won't. I shall put to the vote Articles 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, the name of Section X. We vote. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u121	Under art. 109 The proposal of the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 109. 7 is amended as follows: In the event of the death of a civil servant, the compensation shall be at least BGN 250 000 and shall be paid to its heirs. The successors are entitled to a reception without an entrance exam in higher military schools or the Academy of the Ministry of Interior. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 109, which becomes Art. 108: Art. 108. (1) In the event of dismissal, civil servants shall be entitled to one-off monetary compensation of as many gross monthly remuneration as they have served years, but not more than 20. (2) Upon subsequent exemption from the amount of compensation due shall be deducted as much gross monthly remuneration as received under para. 1. (3) When civil servants have served 10 years or more and their service is terminated on the basis of art. 101, para. 1, t. 4, the amount of the one-off monetary compensation shall not be less than 15 gross monthly remuneration. (4) Upon termination of the service under the conditions of para. 3, where the time served is less than 10 years, the one-off monetary compensation shall amount to 10 gross monthly remuneration. (5) Upon termination of the service after 10 years of service, civil servants shall be entitled to one-off additional property or equivalent. (6) Alinei 1 and 5 shall not apply upon termination of the service under art. 101, para. 1, t. 9 and 12. (7) In the event of the death of a civil servant, the benefits under para. 1-5 shall be paid in total to its heirs. ............................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 110, which becomes Art. 110. 109.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u122	Statements under art. 108 colleagues? This is art. 109 by importer, which becomes art. 108 on the report. I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 84 MPs: 13, against 58, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 108 in its version of the Commission's report and art. 109 with the new numbering. This is the supported article. 110 to the importer. We are voting on the two texts of Anblock. Vote 85 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u123	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 111, which shall become Article 111. 110. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 112, which shall become Article 112. 111, as in para. 3 words.............................................................................. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: In paragraph 44, paragraph 44 is replaced by the following: 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 113, which becomes Art. 112, such as the words "art." OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 114, which becomes Art. 113, such as the words. 109 and 112............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 108 and screeching and control.Screece and control. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. Article 115 supposed by the MP Metodi Andreev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 115, which becomes art. 114. Article 116 supposed by the MP Metodi Andreev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 116, which becomes Art. 115: Art. 115. The Chair of the Agency shall inform the Committee on Art. 114, para. 1 on matters relating to the activities of the Agency, at the request of the President of the National Assembly, of the President of the Commission or of his own initiative. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 117, which becomes Art. 116. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 118, which becomes art. 117. 'Additional provision.' The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. Paragraph 1? a proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. "Actions in the performance of service obligations' are actions or non-requests which constitute the performance of duties arising directly from the post held. 2. "Acts relating to the performance of service obligations' are actions or omissions which do not constitute the execution of obligations arising directly from the post held but which precede or follow them during and are in direct causal contact with them. 3. The family is the spouses and their underage children if they are not married. 4. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, repair and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of 5. The information created or stored by the Agency, which is not a state secret, which would adversely affect the interests of the State or harm any other legally protected interest, is an official secret. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. Paragraph 2? a proposal of the MPs Lazarov, Hristov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2, as in para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / Paragraph 3? a proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. The internship acquired under the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and under the Labour Code by the employees under § 2, para. 2 and 3 shall be regarded as working with the same employer, the appointing authority, respectively, including in the payment of the compensation due for termination of the service with the Agency. Paragraph 4? a proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ The time served for the personnel military service under the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and the super-term military service under the Law on Universal Military Service in the People's Republic of Bulgaria (e.g., SG, No. 112 from 1995.), shall be regarded as an internship in the Agency when determining the amount of compensation due under this law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. Paragraph 6? a proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... The Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29, para. 1 the words "National Intelligence Service" shall be replaced by "State Agency" "Research." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41 words The Director of the National Intelligence Service shall be replaced by the Chairman of the State Agency. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70, para. 2 after the words "State Agency "National Security " is added "and the civil servants under the Law of the State Agency................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 125, para. 1 words The Director of the National Intelligence Service shall be replaced by the Chairman of the State Intelligence Agency. 5. In the additional provision in § 1, item. 1 in the words "National Intelligence Service" shall be replaced by "State Agency" "Research." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In the Health Insurance Act (inc., SG...) in art. 40, para. 2 After the words the Ministry of Interior shall be placed a comma and the victims shall be added in the performance of their duties civil servants under the Law of the State Agency............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Paragraph 9? a proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... The Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles (prom., SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 1, t. 1 the words "National Intelligence Service (NRA) " shall be replaced by "State Agency" "Research" (DAR). 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 78, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 after the abbreviation "DANSK" is added and the words "PRC" and "NCO" are replaced by the officers and sergeants from the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u124	Statements on the reported texts? I won't. Anblok, I shall put to the vote Articles 110, 111, 112, 113, the name of Chapter Seven, Articles 114, 115, 116, 117, the name of the division We vote, fellow Members. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u125	Under § 10, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of the paragraph: ..................................................... The Law on Construction in the Area (prom., SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) in a sentence, first after the words (b) in a sentence second after the words 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. The 7th sentence second after the words the Union is replaced by a comma and after the words the Chairman of the State Agency of National Security is added the President of the State Agency of Intelligence. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 6, p. 3 after the words the Union is replaced by a comma and after the words the Chairman of the State Agency of National Security is added by the President of the State Agency of Intelligence. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140, para. 7 after the words the Union is replaced by a comma and after the words the Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" is added by the President of the State Agency "Research" when referring to the sites of this agency. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 141, para. 5 after the words the Union is replaced by a comma and after the words the Chairman of the State Agency 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 2, p. 4 after the words the Union is deleted and after the words the Chairman of the State Agency of National Security is added by the President of the State Agency of Intelligence when referring to the sites of this agency. (b) in para. 3 after the words the Union is replaced by a comma and after the words the State Agency 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 148, para. 3, p. 4 after the words the Union is deleted and after the words the Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" is added by the President of the State Agency "Research" when referring to the sites of this agency. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The 2th sentence first after the words the Union is deleted after the words the Chairman of the State Agency of National Security is added by the President of the State Agency of Intelligence when referring to the sites of this agency. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 158, para. The second sentence is the third sentence, after the words "the Minister of Interior" the Union is replaced by a comma and after the words "the Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" is added, or by the President of the State Agency "Study" when referring to the sites of this agency. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 159, para. 5 after the words the Union is replaced by a comma and after the words the Chairman of the State Agency of National Security is added by the President of the State Agency of Intelligence when referring to the sites of this agency. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 177, para. 6 after the words the Union is replaced by a comma and after the words the Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" shall be added by the President of the State Agency............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 178, para. 7 after the words the Minister of the Interior. The Union is replaced by a comma and after the words the Chairman of the State Agency. The President of the State Agency is added or the Chairman of the State Agency. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 216, para. 2 after the words the Union is replaced by a comma and after the words the Chairman of the State Agency of National Security is added to the President of the State Agency of Intelligence. 14. In § 1a of the additional provisions, the Union is replaced by a comma, after the words the President of the State Agency "National Security" is added the Chairman of the State Agency "Research" after the words. The Union is replaced by a comma and is finally added to the State Agency "Research". Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal of the MPs Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In the Law on taxes on personal income in art. 24 ) (a.k.a. 2 is created t. 17: Seventeen. the cash and benefits under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Art. 1-5, art. 111, para. 1 of the Law on State Agency Under § 12, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following wording: ................................................................................... In the Law on the Settlement of collective labour disputes in art. 16, p. 6 Finally, the State Agency is added "Intelligence" and the National Security Service. Under Paragraph 13, the Commission shall support the text of the importer for the paragraph, i.e. 1 words.............................................................................. 10, point (c) shall be replaced by point (c) of the first subparagraph. 10c. Under Paragraph 14, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. Under § 15 the Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 15 be rejected. Under § 16 there is a proposal of the MPs Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... The Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army shall make the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 1, t. 16 words The Director, Deputy Directors, Head of Departments and Head of Section in the National Intelligence Service shall be replaced by the Chair, Vice-Presidents, Directors of Directorates and Head of Departments of the State Intelligence Agency. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 words The Director of the National Intelligence Service shall be replaced by the Chairman of the State Agency. Under Paragraph 17, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In the Act on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in § 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions para. 2 is amended as follows: The compliance of the employees' posts under the Ministry of Interior Act, the rankings of the employees under the State Agency Act "National Security" from the reserve and the ranks of the employees under the State Agency Act.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u126	Are there any statements from § 10 to § 16 included? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 10, § 11, § 12, § 13, § 14, the Commission's proposal to reject § 15 by importer, the new § 15 and § 16 in the numbering of the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously. An additional report by the Commission has been prepared for the changes to the Social Security Code. We're listening, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u127	Additional Report No 553-26-27/25 September 2015 A proposal has been made from the Commission meeting in accordance with art. 80, ) (a.k.a. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly by the National Representative Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 1, t. 4 after the words "National Security" is placed comma and is added under the Law of the State Agency "Research" and after the word " means" the officers and sergeants under the National Security Service Act are added. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54b, para. 3 after the words the work is a comma and is added a point. 101, para. 1, t. 5, 7 and 9 of the State Agency Act. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54f, para. 1 after the words the work is a comma and is added a point. 110 of the Law on State Agency "Research" (Art. 110 of the Law on State Agency "Study Agency"), art. 123 of the National Security Service Act. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) a) New para. are created. 5 and 5a: The State Employees of the State Agency of Intelligence shall be entitled to a pension at the age of 52 years and 10 months and at the age of 27 years of general insurance service, of which two thirds of which are actually served under the Law of the State Agency of Intelligence, of military service or of the laws of para. 1, 2 and 3. (5a) The officers and sergeants of the National Security Service shall be entitled to a pension at the age of 52 years and 10 months and at the age of 27 years of general insurance service, of which two thirds of which are actually served under the National Security Service Act, in military service or under the laws of para. 1, 2 and 3. b) Alinea 8 is amended as follows: The insurance internship to acquire the right to pension under para. 1, 2, 3, 5, 5a and 6 shall be respected upon complementarity and the insurance service under para. 4 and 7 may complement the insurance internship under para. 1, 2, 3, 5, 5a and 6. (c) In para. 9 words.................................................................................. One, two, three and six shall be replaced by one, two, three and six. 1, 2, 3, 5, 5a and 6 (d) In para. 10 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: 1-3, 5 and 5a 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 127, para. 5 words "National Intelligence Service" shall be replaced by "State Agency" "Research." The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. (1) Until 31 December 2015, the civil servants of the State Agency shall acquire the right to a pension regardless of their age in 27 years of general insurance service, of which two thirds of which are actually served under this law, in military service or under the laws of art. 69, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Social Security Code. (2) Until 31 December 2015, the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service shall be entitled to a pension regardless of their age in 27 years of general insurance service, of which two thirds of which are actually served under the National Security Service Act, military service or under the laws of art. 69, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Social Security Code. (3) The persons under para. 1 and 2 who, by 31 December 2015, have the necessary insurance service to acquire pension rights, may retire independently of their age until 31 December 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u128	Statements referred to in paragraphs 17 and 18 of the Commission's Additional Report? I won't. Anblock, we vote paragraphs 17 and 18. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. We are going back to the main 72.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u129	Proposal of the MPs Lazarov and Hristov to create new paragraphs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle and proposes to create new paragraphs 18 In the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u130	Excuse me, Mr. Lazarov, since we have already adopted § 18 on the Additional Report with this numbering, from now on there will be a renumbering of the paragraphs, but this will be the work of Final Texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u131	In the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 5, para. 1, t. 4 letter (s) is replaced by the members of the State Agency of Intelligence. In the Law on Measures against Money Laundering (prom., SG No. ...) in § 1, t. 4 of the additional provisions, the words "National Intelligence Service" shall be replaced by "State Agency" "Research." In the Law on Electronic Communications (prom., SG No. ...) all over the word "National Intelligence Service" shall be replaced by "State Agency" "Research." In the Law on export control of defence products and dual-use products (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 5, 2 the words "National Intelligence Service" shall be replaced by "State Agency" "Research." In the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 38, para. 1, t. The words "National Intelligence Service" and "the National Intelligence Service" are replaced by "the State Agency" and the word "The Chief Officer" is replaced by "the Director." In the Code of Criminal Procedure (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 396 A.D. 1, t. 6 words "National Intelligence Service" shall be replaced by "State Agency" "Research." In the Election Code (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 66, para. 1, t. 7 words "National Intelligence Service" shall be replaced by "State Agency" "Research." Art. 2. 158 words "National Intelligence Service" shall be replaced by "State Agency" "Research." In the Penal Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 195, para. 3 words "National Intelligence Service" shall be replaced by "State Agency" "Research."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u132	That's it. Let us first vote on the new paragraphs. Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal on the Commission's main report on the creation of new paragraphs with numbers from 18 to 25, which are respectively the numbers of 19 as presented to us by Mr. Lazarov. [[Reply.]] Because in the Additional Report, we have another new § 18. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u133	Paragraph 18 of the importing proposal of the National Representative Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18 by importer, which will become § 27: The Council of Ministers shall, within 6 months of the entry into force of the law, adopt the implementing acts. (2) Until the adoption of the acts under para. 1 The regulations issued under the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria concerning the National Intelligence Service, the powers of its head and the status of its employees shall apply, insofar as they do not conflict with this law. Paragraph 19 of the importing proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19 by importer, which shall become § 28: The Director and Deputy Director of the National Intelligence Service engaged in military service at the date of the entry into force of the law shall act as Chairman and Vice-President of the State Agency of Intelligence, respectively, until the appointments under art. 14. A proposal by the National Representative Metodi Andreev is created a new paragraph 20 by importer. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph 28, which will become paragraph 29: The provisions of this Law cannot be interpreted in a sense limiting the application of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The authorities under this law ensure full and unconditional cooperation with the Commission for disclosure of documents and declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u134	That's it. Statements on these three paragraphs? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u135	In particular, my speech is on the proposal of the People's Representative Metodi Andreev and in particular the sentence that states: "The provisions of this Law cannot be interpreted in the sense limiting the application of the Law on Access to Disclosure of Documents................................................................................... It is strange that the lawyers have adopted in a bill to present a sentence that allows interpretation of a law. Law is not interpreted, law is enforced. So this sentence is a legal absurdity. "The provisions of this Law cannot be interpreted. Of course they can't be interpreted. They must be carried out. I propose that this entire sentence should fall and remain only the sentence:........................................................................................... I am proposing to put a comma on it by using strict art. 32 of the File Act, defending against the announcement of especially important national security collaborators, external collaborators and state intelligence officers, because... I will be called upon yesterday by this tribune, if I am not mistaken, the military minister announced that he would urgently attract from the Military Information Service to help the work of military intelligence due to the complicated situation of the Bulgarian-Turkish and Bulgarian-Greek border. I ask you, which Arabist, former officer, military intelligence officer will agree to cooperate again at the service today and tomorrow, after you have all voted here and will now vote in a short time to reveal their belonging to those officers who will be formally engaged by the military minister with a contract, and their files to date of military intelligence have not been revealed, as most of them have not been involved in political activity. Yesterday, I spoke with two such arabists from military intelligence who said: "We must be crazy to accept Minister Nenchev's offer, as when we conclude this civil contract we will immediately be hit by the Commission under the Law on the Protection of Files. I propose, in the name of national security and interests that you do not care for at all, I can say quite frankly, as you are among Mr. Metodi Andreev, I hope he is here, to rise up and react, who, with his cave anticommunism, killed and liquidated the Bulgarian national intelligence, and you on the right hand side passed this law, and you also have a particular responsibility for the adoption of this law, as it is on your initiative, during your rule. I insist, no, I insist, in the name of national security, if you do not want to remain in the category of national traitors, first, to fall... [[Noise and lines.]] Please don't let me be replicated! First, let the first sentence fall... [[Noise and lines.]] Please don't let me be replicated!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u136	Colleagues, keep order in the hall. I can't concentrate and keep track of what he's offering.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u137	You will get used to you from GERB and from the Reformation bloc that on this platform people will speak who disagree with you and with your idol Boyko Borisov. You have to get used to it for another three and a half years, and then you will be in opposition further. Let the first sentence fall that the provisions cannot be interpreted as this is a legal nonsense. Only the second sentence remains, comma 32 of the File Act, defending especially important for national security external collaborators and state officials of the Bulgarian National Intelligence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u138	- What's the line? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Enchev's proposal in § 28 of the Commission Report, which will become § 29, to remove the first sentence and to supplement with the text with the comma, as he specifically read it before us. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 79 MPs: 14 against 54, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. Probably a re-voting?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u139	I propose a re-voting not so much for the missing people in this House, but in order for you to have the opportunity to reconsider once again your decision, which is extremely important for the national security of the country, given the current crisis situation, which the Minister of War announced yesterday that it would attract former military intelligence personnel to co-operate with the Arabs who, as I have been told, will refuse precisely because of this law, which you will vote on in a moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u140	Revoting! Vote 79 MPs: 13, against 53, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote paragraphs 26 to 28, including on the Commission report, which become respectively paragraphs 27 to 29, including on the Commission's report, the main report. Vote 77 MPs: for 73, against 2, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted. We remain to discuss the proposal under § 20 for importers, for which there is an additional report. Mr. Lazarov, the Additional Report for § 20. This is the moment of entry into force of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u141	"Additional Report No 553-26-27 of 25 September 2015 from a Commission meeting.' An offer has been made in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by the National Representative Lazarov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 20, which becomes § 30: 30. The law shall enter into force from 1 November 2015, with the exception of § 17, paragraph 1. 4 concerning Art. 69, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2016. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u142	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 30 in the version of the Commission on the Additional Report. Vote 81 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We're going back to the main report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u143	By importer § 21. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 21, which will become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u144	In fact, here the Commission has proposed that the implementation of the Law be a prior paragraph because the Commission proposes to be 29. If we're one behind, it should be 30. We're gonna vote on it anyway. The Commission's proposal is that it be the last paragraph and that it be the last paragraph at the time of entry into force. [[Reference between the President of the Commission and the President of the Assembly.]] This will be § 30, and the one we have already voted on will be § 31, respectively, but this will be further fixed. Is there any statement to be given to the enforcement of this Law? I won't. I put to the vote § 21 by importer, which in the Commission Report is § 29 on the main report, in my arithmetics it must be § 30 and from the moment of entry into force it must become § 31. The content is important, the numbering will be fixed further. Vote 85 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 2. The proposal has been adopted, and this has finally been passed in the second vote the Law on the State Agency of Intelligence, now a law from today. Moving on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR MILK DISCLOSURE. With the Report for the Second Reading of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, Mr. Lazarov will introduce us. We're listening, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u145	Madam President, before we begin the Report, I would ask you to put to the vote the admission to Colonel Getov's Chamber of Vice-Director of Military Information and General Atanas Zapreyanov, an adviser to the Minister of Defence, as well as General Samandov, we voted him, but also for this Law to be present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u146	Honourable Members, voting regime for admission to the Chamber. Vote 76 MPs: 75 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u147	It's a military intelligence service. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Chapter one. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u148	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law, the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 1 and for art. 1 supported by the Commission. Vote 72 MPs: 70, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u149	Under art. 2 has a proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 the words "national security policy" shall be inserted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. Military intelligence unites the activities of all intelligence structures and formations in the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and is conducted to obtain, process and provide intelligence information in the interest of the country's defence and national security.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u150	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable colleagues, we have just adopted the State Agency Act, which is the main intelligence body of the state and must continue to be one, or as it is popular to call it............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Now we start looking at the Military Intelligence Act. I will allow myself by this text to say, and it is with regret that my proposal was not heard at first reading to set up a single intelligence service. This would have been in the interest of the state and the intelligence function would have been carried out much more effectively, but this is the past. What's my offer here? Please pay attention and support it. Military Intelligence and the State Intelligence Agency must relate them as part of the whole. Military intelligence is a specific service to obtain information about the country's defence. Since there is a risk of recovering functions, of duplication of activities, we should be extremely precise at the outset when determining the functions of both services. That's why I think that this somehow seems quite provocative at first, but the words of national security must fall because, read the whole text: The military intelligence unites the activities of all intelligence structures and formations in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and is conducted in order to obtain, process and provide intelligence information in the interest of the country's defence........................................................ Isn't that why this office was created to collect information about the country's defence?! By adding here the national security services, we give the opportunity to duplicate the functions and activities of the two services. That is why I am asking you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u152	Thank you, General Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go. The People's Representative Tasco Ermenkov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u153	Mr President, honourable Members, I strongly support what the Commission is proposing and I oppose any attempts to remove national security from the subject of the work of the Service of Military Information and because, firstly, defence is part of national security. Secondly, the Military Information Service is not only dealing with purely military information which could be really only referred to the country's defence, but also collects military political information which is necessary for the conduct of the country's foreign policy in the field of national security. For this reason, I find it untenable for the proposal that national security be removed from this text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u154	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Honourable Members, we are going to vote. We vote on the proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov in art. 2 the words of national security........................................................................................................................ They voted 71 MPs: for 7, against 39, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm making a final attempt. I'm trying without emotion to ask you to think about what we're doing. This text defines the limits within which the two services have to work. By allowing one service to enter the territory of the other, this is a basis for duplication of activities, for overlap of functions. Here's the big flaw in having two services doing the same job. And when the border is not well separated, military intelligence will continue to gather political information that is none of his business. The people who served the repressive apparatus of the communist regime have no say. Thank you. [[Single applause on the right. Replies from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u156	The regime of rethinking the proposal of the MP Atanas Atanasov. Please, guys! Mr. Ermenkov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u157	Get him out of here!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u158	Revoting regime, honourable Members. Vote 72 MPs: 8 against 30, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 2 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 77 MPs: 74 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u159	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 3 and Art. 4. Under art. 5 has a proposal from the MP Atanasov. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. Art. 5. Military intelligence shall be carried out on the basis of the following principles: 1. compliance with the Constitution, laws and international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country; 2. respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens and their dignity; 3. interaction with state authorities, security services and public order services; 4. centralized management and control of intelligence activities; 5. combining clear and secret forms and modes of operation; 6. compliance with political neutrality; 7. objectivity and Chapter two. The Commission supports the name of the text of the importer for Chapter Two. "Department I". The Commission shall support the name of the importer's text for Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6. Under art. 7 has a proposal from the MP Metodi Andreev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Art. 7. (1) The Office shall organise and lead strategic intelligence using human resources and technical means. (2) The Office shall be the structure of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and shall be a legal person. The Director of the Office shall be a secondary authorising officer with a budget to the Minister of Defence. (3) The Office shall collect and process all information obtained from the intelligence bodies of military intelligence or received from the intelligence structures of NATO and the EU, from the intelligence bodies of the NATO and EU member states, and from partner offices. (4) The Office shall be autonomous in ensuring internal security, the protection of classified information and the counter-intelligence provision of intelligence activities. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9. "Department II." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u160	Honourable Members, speeches under art. 3 in Chapter 1, Chapter 2, Section I, Articles 6, 3, 4 and 5 in the first chapter, in Section II, Articles 6, 7, 8 and 9 and in Section II, Articles 10 and 11? There are no speeches. Voting regime, honourable Members. I repeat, we are voting from Chapter 1, Articles 3, 4 and 5, the name of Chapter 2, the name of Section I, Articles 6, 7, 8 and 9, the name of Section II, Articles 10 and 11, supported by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: for 73, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u161	Proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 after the words of the country....the words....and protection of national security....are deleted. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the words "security" and "security" shall be deleted. 3. point 3 is amended as follows: "3." carrying out continuous surveillance, early detection and warning of military risks and threats to defence security and collective defence; The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: Art. 12. The main tasks of military intelligence at strategic level are: 1. extraction and analysis of strategic intelligence information necessary for the defence of the country and protection of national security against external attacks, risks and threats; 2. information provision of the activities of state institutions in the field of security and defence of the country; 3. carrying out continuous monitoring, early detection and warning of the risks and threats to national security and collective defence; 4. providing intelligence on the needs of planning in the armed forces and on the development of operational capabilities; 5. developing information and operational cooperation with NATO and EU intelligence structures, with the intelligence bodies of the NATO and EU member states, and with partner services in the interests of national and collective defence and security; 6. carrying out the exchange of intelligence information and joint operations with NATO and EU intelligence structures, the intelligence bodies of the NATO and EU member states, and with partner services; 7. providing intelligence in the interest of the security of operations and missions outside the territory of the country, involving Bulgarian military contingents and individual servicemen; 8. implementation of the direct management of the service of the military attaché to the overseas representations of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u162	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. It's a speech mode. Here you go, General. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As they say, I'm making a final attempt. Colleagues, these proposals that have been made and are not supported are in the spirit of what I have spoken to you on the preceding text, but this is about the specific work of intelligence itself. As the first major task of Military Intelligence, it is to acquire and analyse strategic intelligence that is necessary for defence. I don't know why national security protection should be added from external abuse, risks and threats. This addition is practically a direct overlap with the functions of the State Agency. I see there's no hearing on the subject. I understand it's also too specific this matter. But I just want to tell you that if this text stays this way, there will be no power that can distinguish between the work of both services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u164	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are.. the People's Representative Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u165	I hope this is the last time we're gonna talk about national security because we're getting annoying at people. I think they are smart enough to know and distinguish between national security, which is provided in a military policy aspect, and national security, which provides the foreign policy aspect of things that are simple for people who have served in the so-called authorities of justice and not in the prosecution in which you have served.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u166	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Atanas Atanasov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: 10, against 39, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. There's no re-election mode. We are voting for the editorial of art. 12 on the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u167	Article 13. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 13, p. 7 drop the words in the national interest and are replaced by the words for the service. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 13, p. 7 the word, unswerving, is replaced by the word, The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: Art. 13. For the performance of the tasks assigned to it, the Office shall: 1. use specific forms, methods and means of operating under conditions and in accordance with the rules of art. 17, para. 4; 2. attract for cooperation Bulgarian citizens or nationals of another country with their voluntary consent to the execution of intelligence tasks under conditions and by order determined by an act of the Minister of Defence; 3. provide measures for the protection and protection of persons who have worked or worked, collaborated or collaborated with military intelligence; 4. create its own disguises of employees of the Office under conditions and in order laid down by the rules of art. 17, para. 4; 5. use disguises in offices, organizations, commercial companies and other legal entities under conditions and in order laid down by the rules of art. 17, para. 4; 6. draw up and use documents of foreign identity and other official documents necessary for the cover of officers of the Office who perform operational intelligence activities under conditions and in order laid down by the rules of art. 17, para. 4; 7. develop and produce special equipment, aids and documents to ensure its operational activity; 8. use documents to protect and hide the belonging of its personnel, buildings and facilities provided for management by the Office; 9. deploy and use electronic intelligence bodies to obtain information in the interest of national security from external electronic systems and means under conditions and in accordance with the rules of art. 17, para. 4; 10. develop the ability to acquire intelligence, independently or jointly with NATO, the European Union and partner services, by using space, aviation, sea or earth imaging systems under conditions and by order defined by the rules of art. 17, para. 4; 11. conclude contracts with legal and natural persons for services and supplies related to the activities of the Office in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and with the Law on the Protection of Classified Information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u168	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Atanas Atanasov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: for 7, against 34, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u169	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u170	Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev, which has been withdrawn. We shall vote on the version of the Commission of art. 13, colleagues. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u171	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u172	Statements? I won't. We are voting in favour of Articles 14, 15 and 16, supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 78, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u173	"Chapter Three." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. "Department I" The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. Article 17. Proposed by MP Miho Mihov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: Art. 17. (1) The Office shall be organised in management, directorates, departments and sectors. (2) Territorial structures may be established to the directorates. (3) Military formations and overseas structures may be established to the Office directly subordinate to its director. (4) The structure of the Office, the organisation of work and the total number of employees shall be determined by the rules for the structure and operation of the Service.. Military information............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18: Art. 18. The Office shall carry out the tasks assigned to it independently in accordance with this law and with the rules of art. 17, para. 4. Article 19. Proposal of the MPs Hristo Gazhev and Plamen Manushev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19: Art. 19. The military intelligence device in the Bulgarian Army is in line with the command structure at operational and tactical level: 1. at the operational level of the Joint Command of Forces and Commands of the Armed Forces through their subordinate intelligence bodies and military formations; 2. at the tactical level in the military formations through their intelligence bodies. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. Under art. 20 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: Art. 20. The leadership of military intelligence shall be carried out by: 1. the Prime Minister; 2. the Minister of Defence; 3. The Chief of Defense. Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new art. 21. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 21: Art. 21. The Prime Minister shall: 1. implement the general leadership of military intelligence at strategic level; 2. place long-term and annual information tasks of the Office; 3. request and receive opinions and reports from the Director of the Office on matters related to the functions and tasks performed by the Office.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u174	Statements on the reported texts? I won't. I put to the vote: the name of Chapter Three, the name of Section I of the Military Intelligence Facility, Articles 17, 18 and 19, the name of Section II of the Military Intelligence Guide, art. Article 20 and the reported new Article 20 21. Vote 79 MPs: 77, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u175	Under art. 21 by importer there is a proposal from the National Representative Miho Mihov. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 21 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: (2) The activities under para 1, item H, 4 and 5 shall be carried out in coordination with the Chief of Defence, who shall re-sign the regulations relating to the activity of the service. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov. The Commission does not support the proposal: Art. 21, t. 1 to acquire the following version: "1." carry out general leadership of military intelligence immediately or through the Chief of Defence. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 21, which becomes Art. 22: Art. 22. Minister of Defence: 1. implement the immediate leadership of military intelligence at strategic level and the general leadership of military intelligence in the Bulgarian Army; 2. sets informational tasks; 3. issue regulations related to the activities of military intelligence; 4. control the financial and administrative activities and the disposal of the Office's material and technical resources; 5. submit proposals to the Council of Ministers for the adoption of legislation relating to the Office and an annual report on the implementation of its tasks. Under art. 22 By importer there is a proposal from the National Representative Miho Mihov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 22 t. 1 acquires the following version: 1. directs military intelligence in the Bulgarian army and implements the coordination and interaction between strategic, operational and tactical intelligence as a single intelligence process in the defence system and the armed forces. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 2 to drop the last two words is assisted by the Office and instead to record the potential and information product of the Office. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22, which becomes Art. 23: Art. 23. (1) The Chief of Defence shall: 1. Head of Military Intelligence in the Bulgarian Army at operational and tactical level; 2. place tasks of military intelligence in the Bulgarian Army and exercise control over their implementation. (2) In carrying out the activities under para. 1 and in the performance of the obligations under art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Chief of Defence is assisted by the Office, setting specific tasks for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u176	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u177	Madam President, honourable Members! I am amazed that the proposal of the former Chief of Staff and Commander of the Air Force of Bulgaria General has been rejected. Miho Mihov, who proposes that the Minister of Defence implement the leadership of military intelligence in coordination with the Chief of Defence, who rewrites the regulations relating to the activities of the Office. Look, every Minister of Defence in recent years... and Mr. Angel Naydenov, partly, and entirely Mr. Nenchev at the moment, are political appointments.. especially Mr. Nenchev at the moment. They have no idea of military theme or if they do, it's on a Christomatic level. However, as far as military intelligence is concerned, specific training is required. It's Gen. Chandler's proposal. Miho Mihov is extremely up-to-date, adequate and I am surprised that the Commission has not supported him. No worse is the proposal of Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov, who proposes that the Chief of Defense implement the general leadership of military intelligence immediately or through the Chief of Defense. Moreover, both Mr. Mihov and Mr. Karakachanov refer to art. 20, which states that the leadership of military intelligence is carried out by three factors: the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence and the Chief of Defense. Well, in that case, once in art. 20 we have decided that the Chief of Defense is implementing the leadership of military intelligence, why we eliminate him from the position which he is entitled to control, observe, observe compliance with the Law and, above all, rewrite regulations relating to such a delicate area as military intelligence, where he is not guilty of Mr. Nenchev or any other politically appointed minister of defence, but simply does not have the necessary qualifications. I'll tell you what. It is as if in a hospital you would appoint a general doctor or dentist to head of the surgical ward and expect him to perform surgeries. Absolutely not! You can't think of that, of course, but when it comes to football, defense or national security, each of you understands and gives all kinds of qualifications. I fully stand behind the proposal of the former Chief of Staff and the former Commander of the Air Force General. Miho Mihov and Mr. Karakachanov, especially today, because just three hours ago the Air Force Commander resigned. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u178	The resignation has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u179	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u180	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote Mr. Miho Mihov's proposal for editing of art. 21. The Commission does not support it. They voted 88 MPs: 22, against 13, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mr. Karakachanov's proposal under art. 21. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 79 MPs: 17 against 13, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov's proposal to amend art. 22 by importer. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 80 MPs: 11 against 11, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 22 and 23 in the version and numbering of the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u181	Section III. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer suggests that the name of Section III be amended as follows: Department of Military Information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u182	We are voting, fellow Members, the Commission's proposal for a change in the name of Section III. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u183	Under art. 23 has a proposal of the MP Tasco Ermenkov, Angel Naydenov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Director of the Office may be a military officer of the military service in force with a military position. 2. In para. 4th, c. 3 after the word "Military Service" the expression "Military Service" shall be added, and the text shall be inserted until the end of the sentence shall be removed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23 para. 2 is amended as follows: The Director of the Office shall be appointed a military officer or a reserve officer of an active service holding a senior military position. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposed by MP Miho Mihov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 delete the text after the word 2. Alinea 2 to get the species: The Director of the Office is a senior military officer. 3. In para. 4 t. H to drop 4. 4, 5, 6 and 7 become respectively. 3, 4, 5 and 6. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Petar Slavov, Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23, para. (2) and (c) 3 to para. (4) the expression "Civil employee" shall be replaced by "Civil person." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2-4, which is reflected in art. 29 and supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 5 which is reflected in art. 84. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23 a new para is introduced. 3 containing the following content: The Director of the Military Information Service: 1. is ranked as Deputy Chief of Defence; 2. in the situation of war and martial law shall be part of the Supreme High Command. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23, which becomes art. 24: Art. 24. (1) The Office shall be managed and represented by a Director who shall be appointed for a period of 5 years. (2) The Director may be reassigned to the same post only for another 5 years. (3) The Director of the Office may be a military officer of a military rank or civil servant. (4) The Director of the Office shall be appointed and released by decree of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. (5) The powers of the Director of the Office shall be terminated in advance: 1. at his request, declared in writing; 2. if he is unable to perform his duties for more than 6 months; 3. upon reaching the limit age of the respective military title, when he is a soldier, or when he acquires the right to a pension under the conditions of art. 68 of the Social Security Code, when he is a civilian employee; 4. upon the entry into force of an act establishing a conflict of interest under the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest; 5. upon the entry into force of a sentence imposing a penalty for a deliberate criminal offence of a general nature; 6. in the event of non-compliance with the requirements of art. 26; 7. on death or posture. (6) The Director of the Office shall: 1. managing, organizing and responsible for its overall activity; 2. propose to the Minister of Defence for validating the Office's official schedules; 3. conclude military service contracts and exercise powers in relation to the acceptance, execution, passage and termination of military service of the servicemen except those under art. 25, para. 1, t. 1 and exercise the powers of the appointing authority and employer in respect of civil servants of service and employment under the Civil Service Act and the Labour Code; 4. direct and organise the preparation and improvement of the qualifications of the staff of the Office; 5. organise and be responsible for drawing up, implementing, reporting and monitoring the budget of the Office; 6. posting staff from the Office in the country and abroad to carry out official tasks, except in the case of long-term secondment to the overseas offices of the Republic of Bulgaria; 7. manage, organise and control activities for the protection of classified information in the Office; 8. organise inspections related to the activities of the Office; 9. manage and be responsible for the information funds and funds for the storage of operational documentation, cases and file of the operational report and archive created by the Office; 10. awards public contracts within the limits of its competence under the Public Procurement Act and its implementing regulations; 11. manage the government property provided to the Office and the activities related to their resource insurance. (7) In the exercise of its powers under para. 6 The Director of the Office shall issue instructions, orders and orders.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u184	That's it. There are many suggestions on this text. The debate is open. Here you go, Mr. Dubov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u185	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 2 we propose that the director of the service be a serviceman, of actual military service of the highest military rank. And we believe that there are enough motives for this proposal to be accepted. Why does he have to be a personnel officer? First of all, the service is a military formation. It's not called military information for a reason. The Director should have appropriate military training acquired in military school, military academy, strategic course in Bulgaria or other NATO countries. The Director shall participate in the strategic planning process at the Defence Headquarters and shall not be satisfied without appropriate military training. This issue is becoming more and more up-to-date in terms of tensions in the NATO-Russia relations, the preparation of a wider military operation against the Islamic State and other international military issues. This is also an important argument in NATO Intelligence Board meetings where proposals are discussed and prepared to the Secretary-General on current and future NATO operations from a military point of view. Almost all NATO military intelligence directors are soldiers, in the majority they are generals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u186	Any lines to Mr. Dubov? I won't. Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u187	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor to protect the proposal that we made with colleagues from the Reformation Bloc, from GERB The proposal is: to replace a civil servant with a civil servant. Maybe at first glance it seems editorial this change, but it's not really editorial at all. Think about it if a person, as we have written in the Bill, to be elected director of the Office, must be either a serviceman of real military service or a civilian employee, obviously the point is that in order to be an employee, he is already an employee of this Service. So if we don't want to allow anyone other than a serviceman to be elected, let's record it anyway, and let's not fool people at all, that there's an opportunity for some, let's say, civilian control through the director of the service in question to be a civilian. The point of the editing that we're proposing is this one. I hope we can all think about it and support it, because the rest simply means rejecting this opportunity at all and only a serviceman can be the director of the Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u188	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? To speak, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u189	Madam President, honourable Members! Please listen carefully to me until the end. Madam President, if at the end you find that I haven't spoken in substance, you can punish me. Military intelligence, colleagues, is an area of military affairs. Often so abridged is called Military Service, tasked with conducting military intelligence. This Office uses a number of means and methods of intelligence to collect and analyse information in order to provide as reliable and more accurate information as possible to both the relevant military command and the military-political leadership of the State for the object of research or the so-called It's strategic, operational, tactical, that's within range. By species, it's air, marine. According to the funds he uses, technically, specifically, agentially, we even have space intelligence. The objectives of military intelligence are primarily subject to the guidelines of the country's military strategy and have mainly three groups of tasks: the informational provision of military policy, the immediate impact on the sites in the intelligence state and on sites that play a role and importance for its armed forces and external military-political relations, the creation of intelligence positions for carrying out intelligence activities. The tasks can be very different, but above all they are related to an assessment of military potential, to creating a prerequisite for gathering information, primarily of military nature, and not least, informational provision of leaders and foreign policy authorities in making current political decisions most beneficial to the intelligence state, notice, in the field of military policy of the state. Objects are different: military potential, international military-political relations, special objects, objects of intelligence penetration, all complex categories, with which I do not want to underestimate fellow officers, I am talking about those who are not tempted to do so. I don't want to go deep, because I'm gonna totally confuse you with what this is all about. I stress that these are complex actions that require knowledge of military work, require you to distinguish, if not between a self-propelled cannon and a tank, at least between a gasp and a tank. I mean, at the very least, you have to have some military education to make a difference. Among other things, within the framework of military intelligence and the movement of the respective armed forces from one roam to another, you must know what it means and what it means. You must have studied it somewhere. I will not dwell on the planning of military operations because it is different: strategic, tactical, perspective, so-called programmes. There is also planning according to the forms of organization of intelligence activities, such as planning the agential, illegal, technical intelligence, reconnaissance of military units. In fact, all I'm saying to you is to understand that a civilian, no matter how fit he is, has no way of knowing what it's about when it comes to military matters. Here, one of the pre-speechers said this was a specific activity. Yes, it's specific, so it's called military intelligence and that's why the semantics of the word itself suggests that whoever heads it will be military. Moreover, when we were defending the Law, this proposal I had done at first reading, I mentioned, and my colleague Dubov also mentioned that he was meeting with his colleagues, employees, heads of military intelligence of NATO partner countries all military, all with lamps! And I ask you: how a civilian who doesn't know, at least hasn't passed the appropriate training, hasn't graduated from the relevant academy, has no higher military education, is mandatory to be able to perform this work, will be able to defend, can report and can, at the very least, professionally express himself at these meetings! I insist on our proposal that the Director of this Service be a serviceman of real military service with a higher military rank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u190	Any lines to Mr. Ermenkov? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u191	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I take the floor for nothing else, but because some things need to be specified. Mr. Ermenkov, Office of Military Information....only deals with strategic intelligence! Operational and technical intelligence are returned to the units and they are not subordinate to the Military Information Service. You're messing things up. There's something else I want to tell you, even though I didn't hear from you at first. Many times in Bulgaria we like to give Germany as an example, as a standard of living and for what else. Germany has no Military Information Service and the state is functioning very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u192	Second line, Mr. Metodi Andreev. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, let's listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u193	Madam President, colleagues! What Mr. Ermenkov says is in wartime how the Military Information Service works. He himself is an officer of this service and here he speaks of special education! Mr. Ermenkov, your secondary school is an English high school. The Varna University is in Moskovskiy Gosudarivnyannyy Institute. Then, Mr. Ermenkov, you graduated from the SCHO in Pleven, after which you had a two-year course at a special school. This is your military education! [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Where are your academies, General Staff, so you've come here to tell us what a military scout should have! Please! It's not serious stuff.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u194	Third line? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Colleagues, let's keep quiet and listen to Mr. Ermenkov's ass.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u195	Madam President, honourable Members! You missed, Mr. Andreev, that I'm a doctor in the field of technical science, but it doesn't matter. But...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u196	Under the law, not the biography.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u197	Just to remind you that the school you are talking about is led by the Faculty of Strategic Intelligence at the Military Academy of Georghi Sava Rakovski and I have completed it with a gold medal, but this is another topic. [[Relations from the National Representative Metodi Andreev. Commendations: "Eee! " by RB.]] Among other things, I only missed to say something that is a requirement and which should be a requirement to a Director of the Military Information Service, who should also be military, that he should know in addition to the Bulgarian and some of his dialects, and a foreign language, preferably a Western language. And since you mentioned the examples here, I would like to tell you that there is also a separate service in Germany that deals with military intelligence, nothing that is not classified as such. She's with the Department of Defense. I want to tell you that among other things, your mentors, who are generous in paying your non-governmental organizations, have as head of their military intelligence colonel general. I'm talking about U.S. military intelligence, so don't give me those examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u198	Mr. Velizar Enchev to speak. After him "Metodi Andreev," after him "Martin Dimitrov."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u199	Madam President, honourable Members! For the first time since the 100-year history that we've noted to military intelligence, you want to put a man in charge, an entirely civilian. After military intelligence was defaced at the time of Prime Minister Ivan Kostov and on behalf of the military intelligence unit, it went to the name of the military intelligence unit, as a preparation for the merger of Military Intelligence with the National Intelligence Service, thank God that the late General Katsarov managed to prevent this insanity of the then prime minister, so that after defunct military intelligence and you called it Military Intelligence, I am talking about the right part of the hall, now you want to make a military intelligence institution. However, the objective is different. Mr. Bakalov is a purely political assignment to be placed in this chair, and perhaps you will give him a military rank. Why not? We have experience in this regard. Let's see what European and American practice is. If any of you here get up and point out to me Mr. Andreev, you have to point out, you have the right to a reply, in a NATO country, and in the United States, the head of military intelligence is a person who is a civilian who has no military experience, no military experience, no military service, please stand up and do so. And if you do, it can probably only be in the Kingdom of Sweden, which can hardly be an example of comparison. I ask: is there such an appointment in the United States and Europe, since you like to compare fully with your Euro-Atlantic partners? In short, you are currently trying to transform a political appointment into an expert, as Mr. Ermenkov said very well: it is like learning a foreign language from today to tomorrow. Well, that's not gonna happen. In addition, the foreign language needs to be known to lead the National Intelligence Service and the Military Information Service and preferably not, no, necessarily English. And what did Mr. Bakalov do, who now you, with your vote, will make him Chief of Military Information? Mr. Bakalov's first step was to hand over documents to the Commission on the files with the names of foreign citizens... collaborators of Bulgaria, notice, in the Middle East. The same Middle East that I just said yesterday, Minister Nenchev, Minister of Defence, of this tribune said it would urgently attract Arabs from military intelligence, who served in the creepy State Security, that is, military state security, as there is currently not enough trained Arabists, and they will be attracted, if they agree at all, to work on this crisis situation in the Middle East, which actually threatens Bulgaria, so that the first act of Mr. Bakalov Therefore, I, seeing and waiting for Mr. Andreev's line, it is good to hear this line, very please, Mr. Andreev, in your line instead of dealing with other people's backgrounds, make facts and arguments. Insulting and qualification is not an argument. Please, let's hear your arguments, not the qualifications you gave to Mr. Ermenkov. [[noise and lines]] , with absolutely no reason whatsoever, since it is he who is prepared to be Director of the Military Information Service. [[Loud noise, lines and calls.]] He has the qualifications, he has the language training, he has the morals to lead this service, and he has the military training with the military school, not your favorite Mr. Bakalov, but at least you, Mr. Andreev. [[Loud noise, lines, calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u200	Please calm down in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u201	Let's hear it now, Mr. Andreev, your arguments, not your qualifications and biographies, which you carry as well as, what do you call these people? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u202	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u203	Are you afraid of a line? Are you scared? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u204	Mr. Andreev has signed up for a speech. Isn't that right, Mr. Andreev?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u205	Coward! Coward!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u206	Mr. Enchev, please save your qualifications in the hall! [[Noise and lines.]] We don't have any lines. Let's move on. Mr. Andreev, you're listed for speaking, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u207	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This proposal has good reason to be considered. I don't know if it will be accepted, but there is a strong reason to consider it, because our military intelligence actually works as an information service. And on the left, and on the right, no one denies that this is basically an information service. The management of an information service does not need to be operational guidance. We saw when at such an information service the chief was acting as an operative, what happened to Kircho Kirov, who personally recruited, personally walked the special payments to do, is now condemned. It is the job of one such chief to point out the political direction in which this service should work, using all the expertise of the service. This chief, in my opinion, may be a person who has the relevant qualities, has a specialization in the field of national security, without necessarily being military. I'm not saying the military shouldn't be bosses of this service. The idea of this proposal was to expand the spectrum of capable people who can claim to rule military intelligence from now on. Because you will agree that smart people are not only in the military sphere. Smart people also have outside the military sphere, so when a university, no matter who it is, announces a contest for habilitated persons, he does not say, for example, that the habilitated person should only be an employee of this university. The applicant may be of all the other spheres which concern the competition concerned, so a contest is announced. We are currently reaffirming the old totalitarian vision that military intelligence can only be managed by a senior military. In general, intelligence is a highly intelligent activity. The decisions that will be made by the head of an intelligence team are expected to be unconventional. This is not determined by the fact that he is military or not military. This is determined by his personal knowledge, by his way of thinking. I can tell you there was a great movie. It was shown in our cinemas: a code game. There was shown how Mi-6 was created in England. She was created by a brilliant mathematician who was never a scout. Never, but he made the scheme by which millions of lives were saved, unraveling Enigma's cipher. Here is a historical example that we cannot shorten, restrict the search circle for a good leader only in the field of a professional community. And the proposal shows only one.. expansion of the fan, a democratic opportunity for people involved, having expertise in the field of national security to be able to apply for the head of this service. And since I'm supposed to protect Jordan Bakalov personally, I will say and disappoint those who expect me to do so. In the Commission, my position was very clear. As I have now defended these proposals, but I have stated that I will not vote against either of them, nor of them. That's what I'm going to do now, and not for anything else, so the newspapers don't write tomorrow that Dancho Bakalov's boyfriend was offering things that only concern him. That's not true! There are many other smart Bulgarian citizens who we are currently about to draw out as possible leaders of these intelligent services, who need to collect information about Bulgaria. What I wanted to say to you, I told you so that there is no point in checking on this text and I will not vote on it, and not because I do not support it, but because of the reason I have pointed out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u208	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. People's representative Kiril Dobrev, first line. [[Noise and lines.]] We have to finish the lines. Mr. Ermenkov, you want a second line. Third line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u209	Dear Mr. Andreev, you know I respect you very much. We work together in the same Commission, but reading files and criminal books doesn't make an expert. I'm just impressed with you. Apparently, the time you spent in this Commission is only to read who finished what, who did what, and to curse the party and the employees of State Security. Now, the important things. Today's reformers, then seders, put Dimo Gjaurov as head of the NRS and ruined a service. Later the case against Kircho Kirov is an element of the destruction of statehood, and you all know that. [[RB lines.]] Today, the question I have and I want a direct answer is: why is this change in the Law being made? I want you to personally tell me who will be appointed chief and how do you protect him through amendments to the Law? [[Noise and lines.]] And then, is there behind-the-scenes in the service, or isn't there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u210	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. People's representative Tasco Ermenkov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u211	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We have no difference that the Director of the Military Information Service must be a highly intelligent person. We have a difference in his purpose of intelligence. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Should he be an intelligent physicist, should he be an intelligent chemist, or should he be an intelligent military man who can do this job? It is because of this, given that higher military ranks are not given as example some commissioner's ranks, but serve themselves, suffer from Lieutenant's ups and downs, which, on the one hand, helps discipline, on the other hand, raises professionalism and develops people's intelligence. By the way, I don't see any of the officers here who don't meet your requirement, Mr. Metodiev. That's why we want him to be an intelligent military man who can do his job intelligently, but also military, and not just talk about being intelligent, he can be a penkeller employee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u212	Thank you. Third line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Enchev, raise your hand. You're leaving, and I'm... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Mr. Enchev leaves without raising his hand. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u213	A very short line to Mr. Andreev. I thank you at the beginning of my speech. You have noted that it is a service of military information and not military intelligence. You are in fact confirming my hypothesis that from the time of Ivan Kostov the depersonalization of the military intelligence with the change of name will continue with you. You just admitted it yourself that this is an intelligence service, not an intelligence service. I'm doing the following prognosis: one way or another you will try to merge military intelligence with civilian intelligence at the nearest time. That's my prognosis. God forbid I'm wrong, since you just said so yourself. And another element in my line to you, my dear Mr. Andreev. Tell me, if we really appoint Mr. Bakalov as Chief of Military Information, how will he cope at expert level in those days, in those hours, when a real war is being waged in the Islamic State by both the United States of America, on the one hand, for a long time, and 24 hours from Russia with the air strikes? What qualification does he have in the Air Force, what qualification does he have at tactical and strategic level? Whatever qualification Mr. Ermenkov had just said, which you ironed out. So, Mr. Andreev, very please, we are talking about qualification in a specific area such as surgery. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u214	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Andreev's methods. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u215	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I wonder why these people who talk here don't look in the mirror a little bit? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Mr. Dobrev, it wasn't me who got caught at the border with a suitcase of money a long time ago. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Dobrev, just the ones you're blaming, they're the ones who caught you. Mr. Dobrev, I don't have power plants. No, Mr. Dobrev, it's not my sister who buys with... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u216	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u217	Sorry, have a little sense of measure. And what I've read, Mr. Dobrev, I'm telling myself. I'm saying what I read. I think what I'm saying is clear, not like you. As for what Mr. Ermenkov says. Yes, Mr. Ermenkov, it is very nice to be an intelligent man and a military man, but why not an intelligent man who usually deals with national security? Maybe he's military, maybe he's not military. What do you think is more general and more important? And what Mr. Velizar Enchev said. Mr. Enchev, an ambassador who was two mandates in Afghanistan or in the countries where they fight, is he less competent than a general who stands here in Bulgaria and wipes his desk every day? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] That's what I want to ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u218	Thank you for your douche bag.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u219	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u220	No, no, no! [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u221	I asked for procedure first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u222	No, no, he asked first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u223	I asked for the procedure first, and I moved on. Don't abuse it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u224	We saw Chetin Kazak first. I'm sorry, hold on, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] No, it's a dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u225	What douche bag? No one can insult me from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u226	He has a right to mention you in the asshole. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Dobrev, please sit down.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u227	I want a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u228	Mr. Dobrev, I don't give you my word.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u229	I want a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u230	Mr. Dobrev, your word has been taken away, you have no right to a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Before that there is a procedure, you have no right to a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u231	I want a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u232	You have no right to a personal explanation under the Rules of Procedure. Please step away from the stands. I'm gonna kick you out of this room, I'm warning you! Please, there's a procedure before that. You have no right to a personal explanation. It is in duplicate mode relative to a replica. Please step away from the stands. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u233	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u234	Before that, there are two procedures. Please, everyone, take your seats! Mr. Kazak, it's a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u235	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We all see that if this debate continues, the passions will become more heated and very unpleasant words will be said, which we will all be ashamed of afterwards. I think enough arguments have spoken in one direction or another. I am making a procedural proposal to put an end to the debates on this text. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u236	Is there a reverse opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u237	Mrs. Tsacheva, I want a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u238	I'll run a background check on the transcript, I can't tell you. [[Noise and lines.]] In the manner of holding you come to say what you have. [[Noise and lines.]] Just a moment, though, we're in procedure. Back to ending the debate? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to put an end to the debate. Vote 109 MPs: 78 against 28, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Before the vote, the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u239	Before that, there is another procedure. Didn't they tell you? I've been waiting five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u240	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. I am very grateful that you have returned to the chair to bring order and to satisfy all the MPs who want to say what they think. Mr. Andreev, you're one of the people you wanted in 1989...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u241	Mr. Dobrev, you requested a procedure in the manner of conduct. Notes to me, to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u242	All right, to you. Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, you and the Democrats of 1989 have been fighting for a change in the construction process in the sense of socialism to build communism. It's normal for 25 years. [[Laughter and lines]] After a change of formation, there'll be all kinds of people. I'm an element of the transition, Mrs. Tsacheva, so do I have power plants, do I not have...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u243	But according to procedure, what did I do wrong?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u244	...and what I do, it's thanks to the building that you brought in, and today we use it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u245	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u246	Dear Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct and I pay particular attention to your deputy Mr. Ivanov, who is extremely trendy in the meeting. Colleagues on the right side of the room have been witnesses for how long I've requested a procedure. You can see the transcript, he said: Mr. Bajraktarov procedure and then started giving himself the procedures he liked. You seem to have left-wing sympathies, I don't know, but this trendy leadership of the session is already beginning to escalate. [[Laughter]] Because yesterday there was a case like this, yesterday there was a case like this and today again. So, Mr. Ivanov, not only am I doing a procedure, but I want you to be punished! [[(Laughter and shouts in GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u247	Colleagues, the debate is closed. We're going into voting mode. First, I put to the vote the proposals of Mr. Ermenkov and a group of MPs from BSP left Bulgaria for amendment in art. 23 which the Commission does not support. They voted 111 MPs: 86 against 19, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] I put to the vote Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 111 MPs: 21, against 70, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Miho Mihov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 107 MPs: 43, against 10, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Merdjanov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u248	Madam President, I am proposing a re-voting of the proposal, which has just been voted on by Mr. Miho Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u249	I put Mr. Miho Mihov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 93 MPs: 35 against 11, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov, Metodi Andreev, Martin Dimitrov, Yavor Haytov and Korman Ismailov. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 100 MPs: for 4, against 56, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov's proposal, not supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 36, against 16, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. Before I put the entire article to the vote. 24, Mr. Lazarov, in line with the first vote, with the supported proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u250	By para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u251	Before that, al. 2. In the proposal of Mr. Tasco Ermenkov and a group of MPs is the editing of para. 2 The director of the service can be a soldier. It's al. 3 in art. 24, par. 4 t. 3 After the word "Military Service" the expression "Military Service" shall be added. [[Comments between President Tsetska Tsacheva and rapporteur Dimitar Lazarov.]] Colleagues, I'm voting on art. 24 in the version of the Commission Report, in line with the supported proposal to amend this version, with the condition that instead of para. 2 The proposal of Mr. Ermenkov refers to para. 3, the text of the Commission and the changes in para. 4 are actually changes in ) (a.k.a. 5, t. 3 in the main text of the Commission in art. 24. Please vote. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u252	Art. 24 The proposal of the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24 para. 1 is amended as follows: The activities of the Director of the Office shall be assisted by deputy directors who may be soldiers of active military service with a senior or senior military capacity. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24 para. 1 is amended as follows: 1. Drop out of the question. OJ L 268, Paragraph 1 of Article 2. 24 species: Art. 24. (1) The activities of the Director of the Office shall be assisted by Deputy Directors, who shall be servicemen appointed under the Order of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24, which becomes Art. 25: Art. 25. (1) The activities of the Director of the Office shall be assisted by alternate directors who may be: 1. servicemen appointed by the Minister of Defence on a proposal from the Director of the Office, under the Order of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria; or 2. civil servants who are appointed under the Labour Code by the Director of the Office in consultation with the Minister of Defence. (2) The Director shall, by written order, entrust the performance of separate functions and powers to the Deputy Directors. (3) The functions and powers of the Director in his absence shall be exercised by a Deputy Director appointed by his written order for each particular case. (4) Upon the release of the Director from office or where the Director is in an objective inability to perform his duties, the Minister of Defence shall designate one of the Deputy Directors to perform his functions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u253	Statements? Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u254	Madam President, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to thank you for understanding the previous article and for the right one in my opinion, already and in your opinion, the election of the Director of the Service of Military Information. Following this logic, I would like to explain to you that the Office, apart from a director, is also made up of deputy directors who, according to the logic of the already accepted member, must also be servicemen of real military service. Of course, this time they can be senior or senior military personnel, which means from major up on whether they will be a major or higher ranked general and above, is a matter of establishment schedule and all other issues. It is also important for the deputies to be established, to be servicemen of real military service, as they are engaged in the main operational and information activities in which they are largely preparing and shaping the documents and must meet at least the requirements of the Director.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u255	What do you propose in the version of the Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u256	I suggested it. He's got a proposition for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u257	You suggested it, the Commission rejected it. Now there have been changes. Propose it by the wording of art. 25 in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u258	I have a proposal and I am defending my proposal. I'm defending an offer that's not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u259	And you don't make an editorial proposal to drop the item. 2 of the hypothesis of art. 25 in para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u260	Right now we're talking about the vice principals, coworkers, making sure there's no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u261	Okay, I get it. The text was read by the rapporteur. It is not supported by the Commission and therefore in the main text of art. 25, para. The activity of the Director of the Office shall be assisted by alternate directors who may be: 1. Servicemen... and so on.. or 2. civil servants who are What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u262	I suggest: it is supported by deputy directors who may be soldiers of real military service with a senior or senior military service.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u263	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Ermenkov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 80 MPs: 28 against 29 abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal, which the Commission does not support. Vote 79 MPs: 22, against 43, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Ermenkov made an offer in the editorial of art. 25, I didn't get it exactly. [[Reply from BSP LB: point two to drop.]] Point two to drop out, you can hear it from the hall. I'm voting on Mr. Ermenkov's proposal. Vote 79 MPs: 28, against 38, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 25 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u264	Article 25 supposed by the National Representative Velizar Enchev: "1." art. 25, t. 3 species: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 3. hold a 10-year professional experience in the system of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. in point 7 after the word "Coalitions" to express the expression "or organizations with political goals." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposed by MP Miho Mihov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25, which becomes art. 26: Art. 26. Persons may be appointed as Director and Deputy Directors of the Office who: 1. have only Bulgarian citizenship; 2. have a higher education with an educational-qualification degree; 3. hold a 10-year professional experience in the national security or armed forces protection system; 4. have not been convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature regardless of rehabilitation and have not been released from criminal liability for deliberate crimes of a general nature; 5. are not deprived of the right to take up a state office; 6. are verified for belonging to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army and the result of the verification is announced under the same law; 7. they have been granted permission to access classified information with a classification level "Strogo classified'; 8. do not belong to political parties and/or coalitions or political organisations; 9. are not sole traders, partners, managers, prosecutors or members of supervisory and management boards or boards of directors or control bodies of commercial companies, cooperatives or non-profit entities engaged in business; 10. are not employed by employment or by service or by civil contract, except for carrying out teaching or research activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u265	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal, which the Commission does not support. Vote 74 MPs: 9 against 44, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. There is another unsupported proposal by Mr. Karakachanov in art. 25, t. The following Appendix is inserted: after the word "Master": "Master" and completed General Staff Academy. The Commission does not support this proposal. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. Vote 77 MPs: 17 against 23, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 26 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u266	"Department IV". The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26, which becomes Art. 27. A proposal of the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs is created a new art. 26a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 28: Art. 28. (1) An inspector shall be appointed to the Office to carry out control functions in the conduct of the public policy in the Office and to prevent and detect offences and to improve the quality and effectiveness of the performance of the functions and activities assigned to the Office. (2) The inspector shall be directly subordinate to the Director of the Office. (3) An officer who has a higher education and experience may be appointed as an inspector not less than 5 years in the Office. (4) The inspector may be a serviceman or civil servant appointed by the Minister of Defence on a proposal from the Director of the Office. A proposal of the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs is created a new art. 26b. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 29: Art. 29. (1) The inspector shall carry out controls and other checks at the direction of the Director of the Office or on his own initiative, in consultation with the Director of the Office, in respect of: 1. compliance with the regulations and orders of the Minister of Defence and the Director of the Office; 2. compliance with the internal order and discipline; 3. the prevention and establishment of conflict of interest; 4. compliance with the ethical code of conduct of employees; 5. the management and disposal of material resources; 6. the arrangements for the implementation of financial costs for the implementation of specific objectives of the Office; 7. working conditions; 8. management of human resources; 9. respect for fundamental rights and human freedoms; 10. Corruption risks and measures to limit them. (2) The inspector shall examine the proposals, alerts, complaints and applications submitted by natural or legal persons to the Director of the Office and shall draw up replies thereto. (3) The inspector shall not have the power to carry out financial control except for the control under para. 1, t. 5 and 6........................................................................................... A proposal of the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs is created a new art. 26c. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 30: Art. 30. (1) The Director of the Office shall have the right to order the inspector not to initiate and terminate specific checks if this would lead to access to data on operational intelligence sources, methods and means, operational activities and intelligence operations. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The inspector shall have the right to report to the Minister of Defence. A proposal of the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs is created a new art. 26 years old. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 31: Art. 31. (1) The inspector shall report to the Director of the Office on the results of his checks and shall make proposals and recommendations in relation to them. (2) The inspector shall present an annual report on the results of his activities to the Minister of Defence and the Director of the Office. A proposal of the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs is created a new art. 26e. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 32: Art. 32. The organisation of activities, types of checks and the terms and conditions of their implementation shall be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. Head of State. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. "Department I". Proposal by the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Section I be amended as follows: "Department I" "Activities of the Service "Military information". Under art. 27 there is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, which is supported by the Commission. A proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Metodi Andreev, which the Commission supports in principle. Proposal by the MPs Gajev, Manushev and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in general. Proposal by the National Representative Lazarov and a group of MPs supported by the Commission in general. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27, which becomes art. 33: Art. 33. The main activities of the Office shall be: 1. the acquisition of intelligence of a military nature, as well as hybrid forms of war and asymmetric risks and threats; 2. carrying out information-analytic activity under conditions and by order determined by an act of the Director of the Office; 3. participation in the organization and implementation of the military diplomatic activity; 4. information provision and intelligence support of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and assistance to the Chief of Defence in his activities of planning and leadership of military intelligence in the Bulgarian Army; 5. organization and implementation of the special training and postgraduate qualification of its employees; 6. organizing and conducting of a separate or in interaction with partner services, special operations on and outside the territory of the country, subject to the requirements of art. 11; 7. resource provision of the activities of the Office; 8. ensuring the security of the Office, its staff and the protection of classified information, as well as the counterintelligence provision of intelligence activities; 9. investigation of reliability and authorisation for access to classified information to its employees. Under art. 28 there is a proposal from the MP Atanas Atanasov, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 28, which becomes art. 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u267	Statements under Section IV with Articles 27 to 34 included? I won't. I shall put the name of Section IV to the vote, art. 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, Chapter 4 under the name "Military intelligence activities". 33 and 34. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u268	Article 29 supposed by the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov: Art. 29, para. 5 to acquire the following version: Art. 29. (5) The material of the archive of the Office representing historical and scientific value shall be stored in the Office and used as study literature in the training and qualification of personnel. The access of citizens to this archive is regulated by an act of the Minister of Defence. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29, which becomes art. 35: Art. 35. (1) The Office shall establish and maintain its own archive and a special file for the storage of documents, information and data, as well as the cases of employees and associates. (2) The Office shall establish and maintain its own archive and a special file for the storage of documents, information and data for foreign nationals. (3) Access to the archive and files shall be permitted in accordance with the order of the Director of the Office. (4) Materials from the archive of the Office, representing historical and scientific value, shall be transmitted for storage in the State Archive, subject to the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u269	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u270	Madam President, I believe that the proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov is fair because it is the following paradox. It proposes that materials from the Office's archive, which are historical and scientific value, should be stored in the Office and used as study literature in the training and qualification of personnel, and that citizens' access to this literature should be regulated by an act of the Minister of Defence. You suggest, however, that the Commission, all be handed over to the State Archives, subject to the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. First of all, the paradox is that military intelligence workers will not have access to this historical and scientific value, but will have to go and read it if necessary, and it is necessary, as it is about training, they will have to work with the State Archives. I think that needs to change. It's funny how you didn't see it. Besides, where is the boundary between the historical and scientific value of classified information and really state secret? And in the last sentence of art. 35, para. 4 It is said that they are stored in the State Archive, subject to the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. I believe that the State Archive, even in compliance with these provisions, does not provide any guarantees that historical and scientific literature will not be included there, which is only historical and scientific value, not intelligence and other. Well, wait, Britain opens its archives at 45 years, the Russian Federation doesn't open its archives at all, for better or for worse, and in the United States all of this is being done so selective, but I haven't heard documents of the Central Intelligence Agency reading freely in the Library of Congress anywhere. If I haven't heard, you can fix me. I propose that the proposals of the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov be put to a positive vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u271	- What's the line? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Karakachanov's proposal. The Commission does not support it. Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. Vote 66 MPs: 14 against 36 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 35 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 67 MPs: for 67, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u272	Section II - Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose that the name of Section II be amended as follows: "Department II............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30, which becomes art. 36. Art. 31 The proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1, p. Two is withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with art. 80 of the Rules. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 37: Art. 37. (1) The Office shall provide the same volume and content of intelligence information to: 1. the President of the Republic; 2. the President of the National Assembly; 3. the Prime Minister; 4. Minister of Defense. (2) The President shall request and receive information and advice from the Director of the Military Information Office on matters relating to defence and national security. Art. 32 supposed by the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Atanas Atanasov on the basis of art. 80 of the Rules. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 32, which becomes Art. 38: Art. 38. (1) The Permanent Secretary of Defence and the Chief of Defence shall receive intelligence regarding the performance of their functions under the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The heads of the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence, the commander of the Joint Command of the Forces, the commanders of the types of armed forces and the commanders/commanders of military formations shall receive classified intelligence information in accordance with the principle of knowledge. (3) Information documents - reference books, collections, ballots, statements, reports and others, shall be made available to entities by the armed forces of the estimates established by the Chief of Defence. (4) Information on the sources, methods, means and means of obtaining intelligence and data, on the staff of the Office and on persons cooperating or cooperating with it, as well as information that would endanger national security or could harm or threaten to cause significant harm to employees, employees or other persons who acquired that information, insofar as this does not conflict with the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. (5) Persons admitted to information of the Office shall be responsible for their disclosure and misuse in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33, which becomes Art. 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. Section I The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34, which becomes art. 40: Art. 40. (1) Military intelligence personnel shall be: 1. servicemen; 2. civil servants of service in accordance with the Law on the Civil Service Officer; 3. civilian employees of the employment relationship. (2) The status of the employees under para. 1 shall be governed in accordance with the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Law on State Staff, the Labour Code, this Law and the Rules of Procedure under art. 17, para. 4. (3) The employees of para. 1, t. 2 and 3 shall perform functions related to ensuring the activities of the Office which are different from the tasks of military intelligence under art. 12. If necessary, the Director of the Office may also designate positions in which the employees under para. 1, t. 2 and 3 to carry out tasks under art. 12. Art. 35. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 35, which becomes art. 41: Art. 41. (1) The staff of the Office in the performance of their duties may also occupy positions under or under cover. (2) The requirements for incompatibility under art. 188, para. 2, p. 2, 3 and 4 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, under art. 7, para. 2, p. 2 and 6 of the Law on the Civil Service and under art. 107a, para. 1, t. 2 of the Labour Code shall not apply to servicemen, respectively, to civil servants of the Office who hold positions under or under cover. (3) The terms and procedure for the performance of the duties by employees who take up positions under or under cover shall be determined by the rules of art. 17, para. 4. Under art. 36 has a proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 36, which becomes art. 42: Art. 42. (1) The hours, holidays and leave of servicemen shall be determined under the terms and by the order of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and by the rules of art. 17, para. 4 and working hours, holidays and leave of civilians under the terms and conditions of the Law on the Civil Service Officer, respectively the Labour Code and the Rules of Procedure under art. 17, para. 4. (2) The Director of the Office may designate a specific organisation of the service hours and working hours of civil servants whose permanent jobs are located in military formations or facilities located in high places outside settlements, subject to the general rules for ensuring health and safety at work. (3) Employees who take positions under or under cover shall enjoy leave of absence in the amount, under conditions and in the order laid down for those positions. (4) The financial relations between the Office and the employees who hold positions of cover shall be governed under conditions and in order laid down by the rules of art. 17, para. 4. (5) The employees shall use the medical, sanitarium and preventive establishments of the Ministry of Defence under the Order of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the rules of art. 17, para. 4. Under art. 37 has a proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 37, which becomes Art. 43: Art. 43. (1) After the release from military service or termination of the service, servicemen or civil servants of the Office shall not be entitled without express permission from the Director of the Office or of an official authorised by him to contact persons who have become known to them during or on the occasion of the performance of operational intelligence activities. (2) Military and civil servants in the event of discharge from military service or termination of their relationship shall sign a declaration under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 38, which becomes art. 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 39, which becomes art. 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 40, which shall become Article 40. 46. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 41, which becomes art. 47. "Department II." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose that the name of Section II be amended as follows: "Department II" "Requirements" for service at Office "Military information." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 42, which becomes art. 48: Art. 48. (1) The Office of Military Information shall be assembled with personnel independently under conditions and in order laid down by the Rules of Procedure under art. 17, para. 4. (2) An employee working in an authority or body of the national security protection system may be appointed to office at the Office if he fulfils the requirements and conditions for its occupation and upon the conclusion of a written agreement between him, the Director of the Office and the Head of the relevant body and body, and does not owe reimbursement of the costs of maintenance, training, qualification and/or re-qualification. Under art. 43 has a proposal from the MP Metodi Andreyev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 43, which becomes Art. 49: Art. 49. (1) In the service of military service, persons who comply with the following shall be admitted to the Office: 1. the requirements of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. specific requirements defined by an act of the Minister of Defence. (2) The acceptance of military service and the appointment of office in the Office shall be carried out after selection under conditions and by order laid down by the rules of art. 17, para. 4. (3) Applicants for the acceptance of military service and for the appointment of office in the Office shall be subject to a psychological examination by a specialised body of the Office under conditions and by order determined by an act of the Minister of Defence. The study shall be carried out to establish the psychological compatibility with the requirements of the relevant field of activity. Only applicants who are psychologically compatible with the requirements of the field of activity shall be appointed to the service. (4) The Service of Military Service shall be accepted and appointed to office only persons who have been authorised by the Security Authority of the Office to the level of classified information required for the post. (5) Bulgarian citizens with dual citizenship may be admitted to the Service for the Implementation of Military Service or Service in the Reserve and appointed to positions designated by the Minister of Defence, subject to the requirements of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. (6) The Office shall not be appointed as servicemen or as civil servants who are in the immediate hierarchic relationship of leadership and control with another serviceman or civil servant as a husband, a direct line relative, on a second-degree line, including, or in a matchmaking to the second degree, including.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u273	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of Section II, Articles 36, 37, 38, 39, the name of Chapter Five, the name of Section I, Articles 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, the name of Section II, Articles 48, 49 They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously. Under art. 44 there is a proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 44, which becomes Art. 50: Art. 50. In order to carry out intelligence tasks, the Director of the Office may appoint persons in employment or service with another employer or appointing authority and dismiss them from office and military service. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 45, which becomes art. 51. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 46, which becomes art. 52: Art. 52. The management, organisation, provision of training and professional qualification of servicemen and civil servants for the needs of the Office shall be carried out in compliance with the requirements of this law and the rules of art. 17, para. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47, which becomes Art. 53. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48, which becomes art. 54. Under art. 49 there is a proposal of the MP Atanas Atanasov: Art. 49, para. 2 to be absorbed. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 49, which becomes art. 55: Art. 55. (1) For the performance of a service of service and employment in the Office shall be accepted persons who comply with the requirements of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Law on the Civil Service, the Labour Code and the requirements of art. 49, para. 1, t. 2 and para. 4 and 5 of this law. (2) In the cases under para. 1 no procedures shall be carried out for the announcement and holding of competitions. "Department III." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. Under art. 50 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 50, which becomes art. 56: Art. 56. (1) The Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Defence, approves a Classifier of the posts in the Office of Military Information. (2) The functions of the servicemen of the ranked officer under para. 1 may be within the scope of more than one military rank. (3) On the basis of the classifier under para. 1 The Director of the Office shall draw up and submit to the Minister of Defence the appointments of the Office. Under art. 51 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. Article 51, which shall become Article 51. 57: Art. 57. The conclusion of a contract for military service, the acceptance, execution and termination of the military service of the servicemen shall be carried out by the Director of the Office or by his authorised officials under conditions and by order laid down in the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, this Law and the Rules of Procedure under art. 17, para. 4. Under art. 52 there is a proposal of the MP Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 52, which becomes art. 58: Art. 58. A committee shall be appointed to the Office by an act of the Director, which shall assist the Director of the Office in matters relating to the professional development of the staff. The terms of reference of the term of office of the term of office shall be determined by the rules of procedure of art. 17, para. 4. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 53, which becomes art. 59: Art. 59. The acceptance of military service, appointment and dismissal and military service, as well as the promotion and reduction of military service personnel shall be carried out by order of the Director of the Office or of officials appointed by him. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 54, which becomes art. 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 55, which becomes art. 61. "Department IV ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 56, which becomes Art. 62: Art. 62. (1) Military intelligence officers may be awarded with awards and awards in accordance with the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Rules of Art. 17, para. 4. (2) The Director of the Office may propose to be awarded by the Minister of Defence and the Chief of Defence in agreement with the commanders (s) of the Bulgarian Army officers from their subordinate structures and military formations. Under art. 57 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 57, which becomes art. 63: Art. 63. (1) The Director of the Office may award awards and awards to the Office: 1. its employees; 2. Bulgarian and foreign nationals for special merit or substantial contribution to the performance of tasks of the Office; 3. Retiring servicemen serving in the Service. (2) The terms and procedure for the award under para. 1 shall be determined by the rules of art. 17, para. 4. (3) The awards and awards under para. 1 shall be determined by an act of the Director of the Office. Chapter Six. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Six. "Department I ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. Under art. 58 has a proposal from MP Gazhev and a group...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u274	All proposals are supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u275	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 58, which becomes art. 64: Art. 64. (1) The coordination and interaction of military intelligence with ministries, security and public order services and departments shall be carried out by the Office on the basis of joint instructions of: 1. the Minister of Defence and the Head of the Ministry concerned; 2. the Director of the Office and the Head of the relevant Security and Public Order Office or Office. (2) In the exercise of the powers conferred on it, the Office may interact and coordinate its activities with the structures under para. 1 in the following directions: 1. exchange of information and use of information funds; 2. operational interaction; 3. scientific and technical cooperation; 4. preparation of personnel; 5. Logistical insurance. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 59, which becomes art. 65. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 60, which becomes art. 66: Art. 66. (1) State bodies, organisations, legal persons and citizens shall assist the staff of the Office in or in carrying out their activities under this law. (2) In the cases under para. 1 employees shall be legitimized with a service card under conditions and by order determined by the rules of art. 17, para. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 61, which becomes art. 67. "Department II." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 62, which becomes Art. 68. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 63, which becomes Art. 69. Under art. 64 has a proposal from MP Gazhev and group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the National Representative Lazarov and a group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 64, which becomes Art. 70: Art. 70. The interaction and intelligence support in multinational and joint operations shall be planned, organised, coordinated and implemented by the Joint Force Command, and in the case of self-employed operations, by the commanders of the types of armed forces. ..the head..the head....the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 65, which becomes art. 71. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 66, which becomes Art. 72: Art. 72. The Security Authority shall carry out its activities independently or in interaction with other security and public policy services under conditions and in accordance with the rules of art. 17, para. 4. Under art. 67 has a proposal from the MP Andreev, which has been withdrawn. There is a proposal from the MP Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 67, which becomes Art. 73: Art. 73. (1) The financial security of the Office shall be carried out in accordance with the general order established for the Ministry of Defence, with an annual budget established by the Office. The costs shall be incurred by means of a budget subsidy from the Ministry of Defence's budget. (2) The provision of budgetary resources for the implementation of the specific objectives of the Office and the organisation of their internal administration, expenditure, accounting and control shall be determined by an act of the Minister of Defence on a proposal from the Director of the Office. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 68, which becomes Art. 74. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 69, which becomes art. 75. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 70, which becomes art. 76. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 71, which becomes art. 77: Art. 77. (1) To implement the powers conferred on it by this law, the Office shall build, maintain and use information funds. (2) The order for the establishment, use and closure of the information funds and for control over them shall be determined by the rules of art. 17, para. 4. Articles 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77 by importer are supported and become 78 to 83 respectively. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 78, which becomes Art. 84: Art. 84. (1) The Minister of Defence shall be free to accommodate the Office for the performance of its specific functions and tasks in the property of the State, which shall be in the management of the Ministry of Defence, under conditions and in order laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the Construction and Activities of the Service. (2) The registration of motor vehicles of the Office shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure under art. 17, para. 4. Chapter Eight. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 79, which becomes Art. 85.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u276	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote Members with numbers: 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, the name of Section III, art. 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, the name of Section IV, art. 62, 63, the name of Chapter Four, the name of Section I, art. 64, 65, 66, 67, the name of Section II, art. 68, 69, 70, the name of Chapter 7, art. 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83 and 84, the name of Chapter Eight and Art. 85. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u277	Proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 80 at the end of the text, the expression "in accordance with the subject of activity' shall be added. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 80, which becomes Art. 86. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 81, which becomes Art. 87. Under art. 82 there is a proposal of the MP Metodi Andreev, which has been withdrawn. There is a proposal from the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 82, which becomes Art. 88: Art. 88. (1) Financial control of the formation and expenditure of the budget of the Office shall be carried out by the chief authorising officer with a budget and by other bodies provided for in a law. (2) In carrying out their powers, the bodies and persons implementing ex ante financial control, internal audit, state financial inspection and external audit shall not, respectively, control, inspect and audit the expenditure of the budgetary resources to meet the specific objectives and related specific activities. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 83, which becomes Art. 89. Art. 84. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 84, which becomes Art. 90. "Additional provision' The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the law. Paragraph 1. Proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov, Metodi Andreev, Martin Dimitrov. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1, and the proposal under point 1. Two and three are withdrawn. Proposal by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Within 1. The NATO and European Union intelligence community is a collection of intelligence bodies from the command structure of NATO and the European Union, NATO and European Union member states, and partner countries. 2. It is a body of intelligence or a military formation designed to carry out specific reconnaissance tasks. 3. It is the product obtained after processing and analyzing by the military intelligence authorities of data and information obtained from closed and open sources. 4. It is a process of providing intelligence to national, coalition and allied formations in the course of operations. 5. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of buildings, buildings and parts of buildings. 6. Official representatives in the structures of the Central Administration and the Offices shall be employees of the Office who shall be entrusted as a service obligation to represent it in the relevant structure of the Central Administration or Office and to carry out the relationship and interaction between the Office and the administration concerned. 7. "Partnerships" are the intelligence services of other countries with which the Office has bilateral cooperation agreements. 8. It is a two-dimensional representation of a site, object or physical phenomenon formed from distance using space, aviation, sea or ground platforms of various types of sensors. 9. "Lowered regions' are regions with an altitude of more than 1500 m; 10. Financial expenses under art. 29, para. 1, t. The costs of implementing specific objectives of the Office relating to national security and defence shall be those incurred. "Transitional and final provisions' The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u278	That's it. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal for amendment to art. 80, which the Commission does not support. Vote 78 MPs: 17 against 50, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. There's an unsupported proposal here. Report it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u279	Proposal by Petar Slavov, Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission: A new point 8 shall be created in § 1 of the Additional provision with the following text: ,8., "Professional internship in the structures of the National Security Protection System" is the internship acquired: - in any of the structures listed under paragraph 1. 1c of § 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Defence and Armed Forces Act; - in structure by t. 1 et c. 7 of the Additional provision of this Law, where the appointment is by decision of the State; - in the National Assembly, the Presidency or the Council of Ministers, as a Member of Parliament or an expert in a parliamentary committee whose subject of activity is related to national security and defence, Secretary or Advisor to the President on Defence and Security, Advisor or Expert on Defence and Security or Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u280	Statements? I won't. I shall put the Commission's proposal to art. 86, 87, 88, 89, 90 and the name of the Additional provision. Vote 80 MPs: 78, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Petar Slavov and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support it. Vote 78 MPs: 4 against 62, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. Procedure Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u281	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, there are 5 paragraphs left of the Transitional and Final Rules.............................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u282	There's no proposal back. We vote on Mr. Lazarov's proposal. Vote 76 MPs: 75 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 1, the name of the "Transitional and Final Provisions'. Vote 73 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u283	Paragraph 2. Proposal by Petar Slavov, Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 the text until the end of the sentence after the words, on the date of entry into force of the law.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. Paragraph 3. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Lazarov, Lyubomir Hristov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 2 t. 18 is canceled. 2. Articles 100 and 101 are repealed. 3. Article 166 is repealed. 4. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 205a: Art. 205a. (1) The spouse/wife-military of a long-term seconded employee under the terms and conditions of the Diplomatic Service Act shall be entitled to unpaid leave during the extra-border term of office. (2) The husband/wife-military officer under para. 1 shall be taken in an order under a special State of the Minister of Defence during unpaid leave and after the expiry of the period of leave shall be appointed to office in accordance with the military rank and qualifications held, and the duration of the military service contract shall be extended by the period of unpaid leave. (3) The time of unpaid leave of the husband/wife-military officer under para. 1 shall not be regarded as actually served in military service. (4) The contributions to the health insurance of the spouse/wife-military under para. 1 for the time during which they are on unpaid leave are at their expense. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 260, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 163, 165 and 166 163 and 165. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. (1) Within 6 months of the entry into force of the Law, the Council of Ministers shall adopt the regulations for the structure and operation of the Office of Military Information. The term referred to in the sentence shall first be adopted, and the other regulations provided for in the Law shall be issued accordingly. (2) Until the adoption of the Rules of Procedure under para. 1 The Rules of Procedure, the specific terms and conditions for the appointment of staff and for the performance and termination of the service of the Office shall apply. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty.), and other regulations issued on the basis of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, in so far as they do not conflict with this law. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 6 be rejected. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev: A new § 7 shall be set up in Transitional and Final Provisions with the following content: ,,§ 7. The provisions of this law cannot be interpreted as limiting the application of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The authorities under this law ensure full and unconditional cooperation with the Commission for disclosure of documents and declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 6: § 6. The implementation of the law shall be entrusted to the Minister of Defence and to the Director of the Service. Under § 8 there is a proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with Article 8. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 8, which becomes § 7: .................................................... The Law shall enter into force from 1 November 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u284	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Petar Slavov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 78 MPs: 1 against 53, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 2, § 3, § 4 and § 5, as well as the Commission's proposal to reject § 6. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We have reached Mr. Metodi Andreev's proposal. Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u285	Dear colleagues, however controversial this text may be, but we adopted it in the previous law. Let's not have another debate. Yes, the Commission has spoken that it should not be adopted, but I call on my fellow Members to vote for this proposal so that there is no difference in both laws. This proposal also existed under a previous version of the Military Information Act and the DATO Act (State Agency I call on us to vote on Mr. Andreev's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u286	I put to the vote Mr. Metodi Andreev's proposal to create a new § 7 with the corresponding content. Mr. Lazarov must have a mirror of this text in both laws. We've already voted on one of them. Vote 80 MPs: 63 against 14, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Revoting Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u287	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose a re-voting procedure. Some colleagues failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u288	Revoting, coworkers. Vote 73 MPs: 68 against 3, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are voting § 7 by importer, supported by the Commission. In the place of the repealed § 6 comes the adopted paragraph proposed by Mr. Metodi Andreev. This one will remain § 7. We are voting § 7 by importer and § 8 by importer, which become respectively paragraphs, in line with the adopted proposal of Mr. Metodi Andreev. Vote 78 MPs: 77 against 1, no abstentions. The proposal is accepted, and with this it was adopted at second reading and the Military Intelligence Act. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u289	Madam President, I will be very brief.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u290	It's desirable, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u291	I would like to thank my fellow Members who have spoken and participated in the vote. We're done with the service bill package, which hasn't been regulated so far. I want to thank you all.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-01.u292	Communication for Parliamentary Control on 2 October 2015, Friday, starting at 1300 hours: First will answer the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the MP Silvia Hubenova and Georgi Georgiev. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer two questions from the National Representative Velizar Enchev. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer one question from the MP Martin Dimitrov. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer a question from the MP Petar Slavov. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the National Representative Antony Trenchev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure adjourned replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov and a question from the National Representative Yavor Haytov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov; - the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to two questions from the MPs Petar Slavov and Slavi Binev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski, on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - Minister of Culture Vezhdi Rashidov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Ivan Kirilov Ivanov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Dora Yankova, to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov and to a question from the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov and Iskren Vesselinov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - five questions from the National Representative Maya Manolova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova, two questions, to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva and to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov; - five questions and three questions from the MP Slavi Binev to the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski, to the Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov, to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova, to the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev and to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva; - three questions from the MP Miho Mihov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova, to the Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov and to the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev. Due to prior commitments at the parliamentary control meeting, Minister of Health Petar Moskov will not participate. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov, Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev and Culture Minister Vecdi Rashidov will not participate. I'm adjourning the plenary session. Tomorrow, a regular meeting starting at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
