ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u1	I shall open the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear Members of the National Assembly, a Bulgarian lawyer and politician who we associate with the beginning of the democratic transition in Bulgaria will be remembered as a consistent defender of the rule of law in Bulgaria. It is no coincidence that the cabinet, which he headed at a difficult time for our country, remains in history as a government of national agreement. Please, with a moment of silence, honor Dimitar Popov's memory. [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] Colleagues, I suggest to your attention a Programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 9 to 11 December 2015: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers: Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs. Adopted on 23 September 2015 in the first vote. 2. Draft decision for the establishment of a temporary commission on the demands of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria for granting permissions to excite criminal prosecutions against Volen Nikolov Siderov, MP at the Forty-third National Assembly. Importer: Tsetska Tsacheva, Chairman of the National Assembly. 3. Second vote on the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Bill. Importer: Council of Ministers. Adopted on 7 October 2015 in the first vote. 4. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. Importers: Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Structure in the Area, a joint draft, drawn up on the basis of the laws adopted in the first vote on 28 May 2015 with importers: Petar Slavov and a group of MPs, the second draft is the Council of Ministers, a follow-up of the second vote from the previous plenary session. 6. Second vote Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Air Cleanliness. Importer: Council of Ministers. Adopted on 6 October 2015 in the first vote. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. Adopted on 29 October 2015 in the first vote. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees. Importer: Council of Ministers. Adopted on 7 October 2015 in the first vote. 9. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. Adopted on 7 October 2015 in the first vote. 10. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement amending and supplementing the Agreement on the Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme in Bulgaria............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Importer: Council of Ministers. 11. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 12. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer: Council of Ministers. 13. First vote on the Bill of Supplements to the Civil Procedure Code. Importer: Council of Ministers. 14. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 15. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on its usual day Please vote. Vote 171 MPs: 156, against 2, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, in the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure was submitted a proposal by Mr. Velizar Enchev, non-member of a parliamentary group of MPs, who proposes that a draft decision on the amendment of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly be included as a point in our weekly programme, related to the Christmas and Easter holidays of the MPs. Mr. Enchev, you have the floor to make your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u2	Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! I propose a change in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is in line with the official holidays and the working days in 2015 and 2016, as determined by the Council of Ministers. I think, and I said this six months ago when I talked about Easter vacation, I think it is morally reproachable for the MPs to have such a long holiday for Christmas from 22 December to 10 January 2016, but given the beginning of the work of the National Assembly, that is, until 13 January 2016, or almost three weeks. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one solution, if you will accept it shortly, for a change in the Rules of Organization of the National Assembly's work and activities will be in line with the interests of all Bulgarian institutions of doctors, teachers, military, civil servants. The decision of the National Assembly to rest as the other Bulgarian citizens will show that we are adequate to public expectations and are socially solidarity with our voters. I believe that in a moment's vote you will support my proposal with your positive vote, and that is the most important thing for all of us, we will help all of us with this positive vote of my proposal to raise the authority of the National Assembly, which is critically low in recent years. Thank you for your attention. I'm counting on your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u3	I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Enchev to include his protected draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure. Vote 173 MPs: 40, against 67, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. Communication on bills and draft decisions for the time from 2 to 8 December 2015. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importer Georgi Kadiev. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. The Budget and Finance Committee will see it too. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. Importers - Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Draft Decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Importer "Велизар Еnchev." It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A draft declaration concerning the invitation to Montenegro for NATO membership. Importers are Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Lutvi Mestan, Radan Kanev, Valeri Simeonov, Krasimir Karakachanov, Krasimira Kovachka, Svetlin Tanchev, Miho Mihov, Gemma Grozdanova, Plamen Manushev, Boris Stanimirov, Angel Naydenov, Atanas Merdjanov and Valentin Radev. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Decision on the need to promote interparliamentary dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and the Russian Federation. Importers "Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft decision for the establishment of a temporary commission on the demands of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to give permission to excite criminal prosecutions against Volen Nikolov Siderov, MP at the 43rd National Assembly. Importer Tsetska Tsacheva. Moving to point one of our weekly program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Before that, a procedure by Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u4	Madam President, my procedure concerns a change of dots. I appeal to you with a request to use para. 5 and change point 2 to be point 1. It's about my immunity. I'm watching a break in you and in the hall. Now so quickly and so temporarily you have voted on other immunitys. I see some kind of retreat here. I don't like this. You're missing the reins. You're starting to close your eyes a little bit. I'm sure some embassies won't like that. That is why I appeal to you to use your powers under para. 5 and move point 2 to become point 1. Keep in mind, I'm expecting a few more requests for immunity. One of them is my 9th grade hooligan act, and the other one is from 6th grade. So you'll have more work to do. Please don't relax. [[crowd cheering]] . Let's end my immunity to the end so justice can be calm and the prosecution can sleep peacefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u5	Mr. Siderov, there is no way I can make a single change in the program after earlier today at the Chairman's Council this issue was raised by Mr. Chukolov. We also have a decision by the Conference of Presidents a few weeks earlier before the Prosecutor General's demands that the meeting on 9 December will begin with paragraph 1.. the second reading of the Constitution. So your request cannot be respected. Mr. Popov, you also have a procedural request.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u6	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! There is an extremely important vote to be taken, some very important debates on the basic law of the Republic of Bulgaria. Second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. If we claim transparency and if you claim transparency, you are obliged to provide one for the Bulgarian society. In this regard, my proposal is that the debates and the vote on the whole point 1 be broadcast directly on BNT and BNR.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u7	A reverse opinion? I see a change in left-wing policy. During the recent changes 2007, Mrs. Manolova from your group insisted on the exact opposite of how the direct broadcast should not be used for talking, but rather called for us to concentrate and focus on the essence of the debates. Colleagues, is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put the procedural proposal to the vote. [[Reply of MP Krasimir Yankov.]] You're insulting Mrs. Manolova... Please vote. Vote 194 MPs: 80 against 30, abstention 84. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Popov. You probably couldn't vote until you got back to your seat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u8	Madam President, I am sure that the cameras of BNT and the microphones of BNR will not interfere with the essence of the debates. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u9	With the exception that you have reason to request a re-vote if you have failed to vote, you and your colleagues, but I will consider your procedure valid. I understand Mr. Kanev didn't vote. It's a rethink of the proposal. They voted 195 MPs: 81, against 33, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Lazarov, Chairman of the Temporary Commission, will report on the Commission's proposals to the National Representation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u10	Mrs. Chairman! "Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-144, submitted by Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs on 24 July 2015, adopted on the first vote on 23 September 2015. The Law on the Amendment and Supplement of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u11	Mr. Lazarov, please adjust your microphones so that your voice can be heard throughout the hall as colleagues react that they do not hear. [[Reply: the Dictation!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u12	There's no way we can fix the diction right now. I think Mr. Lazarov reported clearly and collectively enough. Colleagues, before I put it to a vote, if there are no statements on the Commission's proposal to support the text of the importer on the name of the Law, to remind you of that part of the procedural rules which are published in our deliberately adopted Decision number 44 of the Official Journal, and they are from para. 3 until the end that in the second vote the bill is discussed and adopted text by text under the terms and by the order of art. 81 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In cases referred to in art. 3, para. 3: The draft is adopted in a second vote if for each text three quarters of all Members of the National Assembly have voted. Alinea 5 states that: The texts which are not supported by three-quarters of all MPs, but are supported by two-thirds of them, shall be considered and accepted in accordance with art. 3, para. 4................................................ Al. 6: When the bill is adopted in the first vote in accordance with art. 3, para. 4 adopted in the second vote are the texts for which no less than two thirds of all Members of the National Assembly have voted. Last para. 7: The texts, which are not supported by two thirds of all Members of the National Assembly, are rejected. Are there any who wish to speak on the Commission's proposal in support of the importer's text? [[Noise, excitement.]] Please stop the photo shoots! This is not the time in plenary to take pictures of the stands. Is there a wish to make a statement? I won't. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u13	Zhelev doesn't have a console.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u14	Cancel the vote! Please, the Quaestors, make it possible to secure Mr. Zhelev's right to vote if necessary elsewhere, with another panel. Voting regime, fellow Members. Vote 215 MPs: 186, against 24, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u15	Proposal of the National Representative Petar Slavov. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 sentence third and para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure for the discussion and adoption of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal from the National Representative Petar Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u16	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u17	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u18	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I take the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct, as we read about a lot of proposals made between first and second readings, which the Commission considered to be outside the volume and objectives, so to speak, of the original Bill. It seems to me that this should also be voted in the House, that is to say, it is the House that must determine that a proposal goes beyond the scope of the original Bill and not only the Commission, which, of course, has spoken as indicated here. My proposal is to put them to the vote on whether or not they are admissible in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u19	I take it your offer is procedural. You wish the penalty of plenary as to whether or not the proposal is within the scope of the bill, as the Commission claims. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Slavov's proposal that plenary allow debate and voting on texts for which the Commission's opinion is that they are outside the scope of the bill. Vote 217 MPs: 32, against 124, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Lazarov, report!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u20	A proposal from the National Representative Petar Slavov is created a new § 2. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and supports it in general under point 1. 2. ..................................................... In Article 1. The Union is replaced by a comma after the words the Supreme Administrative Court and after the words the Chief Prosecutor is added by the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 84, p. 16 A sentence is created second: The National Assembly may hear and adopt other reports of the Prosecutor General on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office on the implementation of the law, the fight against crime and the realization of criminal policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u21	Statements, coworkers? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u22	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am pleased that the Commission did not consider this proposal to be out of its scope, but this is another subject. In principle, support is a good thing, but here a word has been dropped that we have proposed, and we believe that this is the basis of this proposal. We have proposed that the National Assembly be able to demand, hear and accept other reports of the Prosecutor General. The word "the Commission's proposal has been omitted, which reverses the initiative. This means that by adopting this text in the way the Commission proposes it, if the Prosecutor General wants to submit any report, we can hear it and accept it, but the National Assembly will not be able to require the Prosecutor General to submit reports to the Prosecutor's Office on its enforcement of the Law in countering crime and the implementation of criminal policy. That is why I am making an editorial proposal: in the text which the Commission has adopted, of course, to be voted separately, to have a word of a word of a kind used before the adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u23	Any lines to Mr. Atanasov? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! I support the proposal made by my colleague Atanasov. The option that I have proposed coincides with its thesis, that is, to add the word...................... because it is really quite an essential element of this text. I hope I can convince you. I will quote you very briefly from Decision No 8 of 2005 of the Constitutional Court........................ what the constitutional judges have written. I know that many of you have, at least in the Commission, some reservations on this text, whether the National Assembly can require such a thing, and whether this would be contrary to the form of government. What the constitutional judges wrote in 2005 in this decision. 4 is: "It will not represent a change in the form of government if the Constitution provides that the prosecution, the investigation and the Ministry of Interior implement a single state policy in the fight against crime and their activities in this direction are monitored by the National Assembly. That is to say, it is absolutely acceptable for me in this connection and in such powers that the National Assembly really requires of them a report on what is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u25	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u26	Thank you, Madam President. This proposal is practically turning upside down the principle of separation of powers, the principle of independence of the judiciary. Parliamentary control of an independent body will be carried out in practice. Another question is: is criminal policy, colleagues, only carried out by the prosecution, or is it carried out by the Bulgarian courts? Then let us also have parliamentary control over the Presidents of the VCC, of the SAC. Please, when you make such proposals, however, comply with the current Constitution and generally fundamental democratic principles. This proposal is absurd and in no way corresponds to the basic principles, I repeat, democracy, the rule of law, the constitutional state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u27	A line to Mr. Popov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u28	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! On the issue of the separation of authorities, the entire debate in today contains an important element in itself, and it is the gaps made by the original constitutional legislature not in relation to the division of authorities where it was quite detailed, but in terms of control and balance between the individual authorities. I would like to recall that a previous parliament adopted in the Law on the Judiciary a text identical to initially proposed by colleagues between first and second readings, namely the right of the National Assembly to require reports from the Prosecutor General of the Republic. This text was then adopted by the National Assembly by a very large majority, but subsequently repealed by the Constitutional Court as unconstitutional, and completely correct. Quite right, because he didn't respond to the Constitution in its previous version. That is why it makes great sense that this previous constitutional decision, which brought together a large majority as a law, should now bring together the same large majority as a change in the Constitution, where it does not in any way violate the division of the authorities, on the contrary, make a small step towards the creation of control mechanisms so necessary in relation to the judiciary in Bulgaria. And something else is extremely wrong, and it will be a thread that I believe will run through the entire debate today, to align the magistrates of the prosecution with the magistrates of the court, regardless of the fact that the Bulgarian Constitution and the others are part of the independent judiciary. There are constitutional decisions of the Bulgarian Constitutional Court, but there are countless international acts that make the very important difference that the court cannot follow policies, and the prosecution can and must follow policies, which means that the control of the prosecution even as an element of the judiciary as it is in most European countries, a very rare example is to be a part of the executive authority, which is subject to both more serious control and direction by the authorities of the legislative and executive powers in order to pursue state policies....................................... something that is completely unacceptable to the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u29	Replices to Mr. Kanev? I won't. To speak, Mr. Mestan. After him, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u30	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are launching historically important debates on the amendment of the Bulgarian Constitution. On the very first proposal, we are faced with a very clear position by our colleagues from the Reformation bloc. It needs a very, very deep analysis of this proposal. It says the following: the court, judge, prosecutor and investigators have different functionality in the process and different competences and competences, I apologize, different competences. There are judicial systems in which the judiciary is believed to be the judge above all. The coroner gathers the evidence, the prosecutor press charges, the accused has a right to a defense, and the judge finally decides. That is why the judiciary is the judge. By this understanding, a number of national parliaments in their constitutions have also adopted the principle of the difference in the status of the judge, on the one hand, the prosecutor and the investigator, on the other hand. They are used with different immunitys, have a different system of career growth, different degree of privacy, inalienability and independence. However, the Bulgarian founder of the 7th Grand National Assembly, despite its awareness of the different functionality of the judge, on the one hand, and the prosecutor and the investigator on the other, has leveled them as constitutional status. What Mr. Radan Milenov Kanev declared as a miss, perhaps a mistake. It is debatable whether this approach was correct. Yeah, it's a discussion problem. We are ready to take part in this discussion. Was it a mistake of the Seventh Grand National Assembly to place investigators and prosecutors next to the judge of the same status? But this same founder said that the status of inalienability, of independence is directly linked to the separation of authorities and the balance in the interaction between the authorities and that the change here can happen with a Grand National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, let us speak the truth! If we want to make deeper reforms in this judicial system, sooner or later we need to mature for the need to convene a Grand National Assembly to meet briefly and to adopt a single act This type of decision can be made by another majority. For example three quarters, but the Bulgarian legislature must be free from the shackles of the Grand National Assembly. Until then, it will be very difficult to bring in an ordinary parliament to deal with issues on which, if it were the best of wishes, we could not engage because there are topics that stand outside our political will. For us, the criterion for real, deep, very deep reforms is his attitude towards the idea of convening a Grand National Assembly. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We call on the President of the Republic to begin consultations with agreement to convene a Grand National Assembly to declare his own liquidation so that we can deploy all of our reformist energy and power. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u31	- What's the line? Mr. Atanasov, first line. Mr. Kanev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Mestan, if you read all the documents of the party "Democrats for strong Bulgaria" you will see that we have created ourselves with the idea to convene a Grand National Assembly, but this is not today the topic of discussion here. I want to tell you as a line only two sentences because it's important. There is no need to convene a Grand National Assembly to resolve this issue, which is now being put here with the proposal that we have made. Because there is a fundamental, fundamental principle of separation of authorities and it reads, from the time of Montesco: The division of the authorities means relative autonomy and mutual control between the authorities. I do not want to give an example here or different examples of what powers the prosecution has with regard to the MPs in the National Assembly and how the higher authority of the government, such as the National Assembly, has no relation to any kind of control over the activities of the Prosecutor's Office. Our proposal is to fill this vacuum for mutual control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u33	Second line, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u34	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Mestan, with all due respect to your position to convene a Grand National Assembly, with which I would like to correct my colleague Atanasov, not only "Democrats for strong Bulgaria" and the entire Reformation bloc has in all its basic documents both election and principle. It's a very separate subject. We all know what the original constitutional legislature meant under the limitations of the Grand National Assembly. Two simple things - Bulgaria is a unified republic. Everything else is subsequently enlarging through constitutional decisions of these two simple restrictions in order to preserve the status quo. Something that in your speech you have just brought down to absurdity with the idea that the introduction of an elementary, control mechanism with no impact on you, we are saying to require reports, to accept reports. But in no case are we saying that if we do not like this report, this thing in this House may follow... There is no such proposal, despite my deep belief that such a proposal would not, too, violate the structure of the Unitarian Republic of Bulgaria and, far from it, require no Grand National Assembly. But there is no such proposal. There is a simple control procedure without sanctum consequences and you are telling us that for it we should call a body whose powers are to change the state borders, to make Bulgaria a monarchy or Bulgaria a federation. To this end is provided the Grand National Assembly in the Bulgarian Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u35	Third line? There aren't any. It's a hole, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues! Mr. Kanev, I am aware of your opinion. Let's strengthen the word with your position. We also have many positions in various constitutional cases. The problem is that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are part of the Constitution itself, and in cases where our positions are party, perhaps in your case and experts, face decisions of the Constitutional Court that are not covered by your positions, your position is simply a position, and the other has the power of a constitutional act. And here we really, for this very reason, are talking about topics, cases that stand outside the political will. You have compared today's debates with those of 1999. Remember, only by DPS your leader, Mr. Ivan Kostov, received support for the government's general decision to give an air corridor to the NATO Air Force? Only then this will of the DPS was not limited by the Constitution and you received this principled support. It is nice to remember these things from the point of view of the parties who made the right decisions, which changed the fate of Bulgaria and made it Euro-Atlantic today. But you cannot expect from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the only party that has not signed the existing Constitution, cannot expect from us actions that would violate the Constitution itself. It is good to know, because we want to deploy our political will, and this will not happen with the limitations of the Grand National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u37	To speak, Mr. Mikov has the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! "BSP left Bulgaria" will not support this text just because it is not admissible, it is not considered at first reading, but because in the statements just now there is something that should be clear, and an understanding that we cannot support: "Political control of the independent judiciary in its part "The Prosecutor's Office" was clearly stated by the tribune. European examples are given, but for the plenary it must be clear that Europe does not have a single model and each country is absolutely free to define its device within the framework of the functioning of the former Third pillar and now the area of freedom and security. Speculation of how it is in one or another of the European Union, which will probably sound often today in this House, must be clearly exposed The story of the separation of the prosecution into the independent judiciary is related to the practice of the prosecution in the 1950s and the Soviet model. Today, an attempt is being made to restore this practice due to the inability of the political forces, which claim it with a Grand National Assembly, in fact they were boycotting their predecessors and then adopting the Constitution. They change their names, but their thinking is the same. We cannot accept such an understanding of political control over the prosecution. It is highly speculative that the prosecution controls the National Assembly with its right to seek the immunity of one or another MP. The National Assembly consists of 240 MPs and the Constitutional legislature has despised that always, even if immunity is sought, the assembly will remain in a composition that can protect the independence of the parliamentary power, regardless of the requests for immunity of the Prosecutor General. The other vulgar understanding that the prosecution controls parliament through the right of the Attorney General to seek immunity is a presumption of crime throughout the parliament. It is absurd, false and impossible, and it cannot be based on such a vulgarized understanding to draw reasoned conclusions in support of such a request. Why aren't we supporting direct control of the Attorney General yet? Except on the ground which was just pointed out that criminal policy, apart from the prosecution, is also happening with the sanctions applied by the court..................................................................... This is undemocratic, incomprehensible, connected with some internal moods in the ruling majority to strengthen political control was also clearly stated on this text, on parts of the independent judiciary, and it is unacceptable for us. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u39	Any lines to Mr. Mikov? Mr. Kanev, first line. For the second line Mr. Volen Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u40	Madam Chairman, colleague Mikov! With regard to the prosecutor's office, it will probably also be about the following paragraphs in today's debate, but it is indicative of how small the debate is already beginning to sharpen. I would like to replicate a specific common European model and it is not in the place of the prosecution, the judiciary, the executive or the interim, which also exists as a European model. The common European model is that the prosecution implements state policies and the court does not. It is dramaticly false that you claim that the court is involved in the state penal policy. However, the prosecution is involved as the most important factor in the formation and implementation of state penal policy and should therefore be much more closely controlled and much more dependent on the legislative authority of the State, which forms the criminal policy of the state at the legislative level. Here is the common European model. And one more thing, once again, I'm going to say it.. Nothing to do with the current model of the prosecution with a democratic model and it did not arise as a reaction to the totalitarian model of the prosecution. On the contrary, the classical totalitarian prosecution independent of parliament in this Chamber, independent of the Council of Ministers, dependent solely on the Politburo and the totalitarian communist dictator, is the Soviet model. The only question hanging today in keeping this model in at least a formally democratic state is: who in Bulgaria is a Politburo who controls the prosecution because it is not us and we refuse to be us? [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u41	Second line, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u42	Thank you, Madam President. My line is to Mr. Mikov. Mr. Mikov, I don't understand why you're putting so much pressure on this prosecutor's office not to have dust on it, not to have political control. Excuse me, the Constitution says that as soon as you enter this room and swear, and become a representative of the people, you represent the entire people. We are all MPs representing the entire people, not even the party that has broadcast us and with which we have entered the newsletter. In other words, the people's representative is not political control, he is people's control. I think it is quite normal and there is no contradiction with the rules of democracy of the National Assembly to require the prosecution to be accountable, i.e. to give its report. I don't see anything wrong with that, on the contrary, I think it's right, I think it's people's control. I do not accept this self-deprecating of the National Assembly. We are political control and therefore let us make sure that we do not interfere with the great independent judiciary. After all, separation of authorities does not mean that they are on different planets or galaxies, they are part of a public organism and should be able to control each other. Again, this is people's control, not political. My call is to support the word.............................. there is nothing scary about it, don't worry so much. Yes, the next request for immunity may be for you, but don't worry, it will be voted by a majority, so don't worry, Mr. Mikov. However, let us be able to ask the prosecutor to come here and submit his report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u43	Third line? I won't. For the doppelganger, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u44	Thank you, Madam President. This from Mr. Siderov was quite interesting for the people's control. The time for reply is too short to comment on the function of folk control in today's constitutional device. Dear Mr. Kanev, I cannot accept in any way that the judicial, executive and legislative authorities are not implementing criminal policy. Each of them has its criminal policy, including through the interpretation of the Supreme Court's plenipotentiaries regarding the implementation of the Law, a criminal policy is being implemented and it may be liberal, for which citizens in foster institutions often resent, of course, being more repressive. So there is no argument to believe that only through the indictment function a criminal policy is implemented. This is ridiculous! I don't know where you taught these things.! In fact, there is no common European structure of the judiciary. There is general talk about a common European device. Otherwise, there is none, and it has been confirmed repeatedly, including in the latest report of the Venice Commission, so that some homegrown Democrats would not forget that there is no single judicial structure in the European Union. This discussion goes on for about 30 years in the European institutions, including the Stockholm Convention, including the development of the Third Pillar, including its migration to freedom and security. Each time Europe says: this is a national issue and it is determined by national peculiarities. So please, let us proceed from this so that we do not mislead the House, because then I am sure that these positions will also be read in Europe. We from BSP left Bulgaria do not accept political control over the judiciary. Period! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u45	Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? Mr. Lazarov to speak. [[Noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u46	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] I'll be very brief. Amendment to the Constitution 2006 The principle is adopted for the first time that the National Assembly may hear reports from the Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Prosecutor General for the implementation of the law, on the activities of the courts, prosecutors and investigating bodies. Two thousand and seven years this text has been amended, and correctly, as in the Constitution I would like to remind some colleagues, the constitutionally held bodies are the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Supreme Administrative Court. The proposed text of your attention, in the version of the Commission, gives one opportunity, and I will ask my fellow Members from my parliamentary group to support this text,............................. the National Assembly to listen to other reports of the Prosecutor General on criminal policy. This is it. No political control and it is not about dependence, independence from the National Assembly at all. Moreover, the constitutional principle is: prosecutors, judges, investigators are independent and carry out their activities, they are subject only to the law. This text, Mr. Mikov, 2006, as amended 2007, was adopted during your management.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u47	A little bit of a line from you was to Mr. Mikov. There was a possibility of a third line, but you decided to do it as a statement. Now there will be what, Mr. Mikov? Line. Line one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Lazarov, so the laws and the Constitution as a basic law must be read in full. Because the difference between what you support and what is written in art. 84, p. 16, in connection with 130, para. 7, is that these reports pass, first, through the Supreme Judicial Council and the Supreme Judicial Council to the National Assembly. And this has repeatedly been said in the discussion with European experts that so the Supreme Judicial Council, such as the independent body of the judiciary, mediate communication, interaction and, pay attention there to the right, supervision, and not parliament's control of the judiciary. This is about direct communication. It reminds me of the times when Ivan Kostov was Prime Minister, Mr. Sokolov sat back here. There was a discussion about corruption brought in by the cabinet. And then they brought in the newly elected Attorney General, former Deputy Minister of Justice, who from this tribune was screaming: "Crime is here on the left!" He screamed as much as he could: "Crime is here on the left!" If you want to resuscitate these models and let parliament become once again a tribune of political squabble in which the judiciary and the prosecution are directly involved, do so, the responsibility is yours! We cannot support such decisions. Obviously, the way you've been thinking since 1999. Open the transcripts and you will see it, from this tribune, the chief prosecutor brought here before it was in the political office of the ODS, screaming like that. That is why we will vote against it and we cannot accept this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u49	Second line? Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Lazarov, in the discussion so far, there has been a very true thesis that the principle of separation of authorities should in no way be produced to the principle self-sufficientness of individual authorities and there can be no Berlin walls between them. Because it is true that they are the three ingredients of the single government and they must somehow interact and be balanced. By the way, precisely because the 90th year, led by the fear of activating totalitarian reflexes, because we very well know what a chief prosecutor means, a cannon in the hands of a party. The members and sympathizers of the DPS know this best, and that is why we are a little more sensitive on this subject. Therefore, the previous amendment to the Constitution introduced the principle of the annual reports submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council, not directly from the three major ones and, notice, were placed in the same regime, because not we, but the Constitution equals them as constitutional status. And these changes were one with the introduction of the figure of the Inspectorate back to the Supreme Judicial Council, precisely in order to overcome the negative consequences of the closure, of the public sense of self-sufficientness of the judiciary. And it was some form of elegant, non-national control through parliament, and some kind of interaction that would still increase transparency in the activities of the judiciary and the responsibility of the judiciary. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So this proposal that we are debating is irrelevant to the texts that, if memory serves, the 40th National Assembly adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u51	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u52	Thank you, Madam President. I will only remind the text in the version of the Commission: The National Assembly may hear and accept other reports of the Prosecutor General..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u53	Is there any other MPs to speak with? No. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber. [[Noise.]] I hope they hear the sound signal too. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Petar Slavov under the heading. 1, which is not supported by the Commission, we are voting on an unsupported part of a proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I repeat, we are currently voting on a proposal from a Member of Parliament not supported by the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 190 MPs: 34 against 42, abstention 114. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the editorial supplement made in the Chamber by Mr. Atanasov to the text proposed by the Commission for the new § 1, and in the sentence: This is Mr. Atanasov's proposal, supported by Mr. Slavov, made in the Chamber. [[Replys on the left.]] Colleagues, I think we'll settle this matter better by voting than by arguing whether it's in substance or not. Voting mode. Vote 192 MPs: 34 against 38, abstention 120. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting § 1 in the version of the Commission report. Colleagues, there are MPs outside the plenary and not taking part in the vote. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Abort the vote. Vote 195 MPs: 159 against 35, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. Show in groups. [[Noise. A line from the National Representative Danail Kirilov.]] Mr. Kirilov gave the first sign of revoting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u54	Madam President, during the vote there was a movement in the Chamber. I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u55	Colleagues, re-vote. Vote 197 MPs: 160 against 37, no abstentions. Colleagues, 160 MPs vote for the text... [[Loud noise and lines.]] Show the results in groups. In accordance with art. 155, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Rules of Procedure, texts which are supported at second reading by two thirds of votes, or this is 160, should be subject to a new discussion not earlier than two months and not later than five months. So this § 1 falls into the hypothesis of art. 155, para. 2 of the Constitution and our Rules of Procedure. [[Loud noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Chetin Kazak.]] First of all, Mr. Kazak asked for it in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u56	Thank you. Madam President, I object in a procedure in the manner of conducting the interpretation that you have just made to the Constitution, and in particular to art. 155. Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to: 155, reads: The National Assembly shall adopt a Law amending or supplementing the Constitution by a majority of three quarters of all Members of the National Assembly of three votes on different days. Alinea 2: If the proposal receives less than three quarters, but not less than two thirds of the votes of all Members of the National Assembly, the proposal shall be put forward for a new examination not earlier than two months and not later than three months.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u57	Five.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u58	It refers to the proposal as a bill, because that is the meaning of the founder, the constitutional legislator, when he voted on this text of the Constitution. A similar division between texts cannot be made within the framework of a bill already tabled and certain texts of the overall bill can be removed and subject to different requirements regarding the majority with which they are supported. Either the Bill as a whole will receive at the beginning three quarters and will follow the so-called 'fast track', that is, then each of its paragraphs or provisions will have to receive the same majority in order to be finalized, or any text which in some of the readings, and in particular in second reading, does not receive the majority of three quarters after it has already been voted at first reading with this majority, it cannot continue alone. [[Applause from DPS.]] So I object to your interpretation. This text has not been adopted and cannot continue to exist on its own. Thank you. [[Applause on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u59	Mr. Kazak, I do not interpret, I verbatimly reproduced the provision of the Constitution and made reference to the rules of procedure adopted by the Commission. The meaning is contained in the Rules of Procedure. And I consider your objection to be relevant if it had been done at the time when the National Assembly adopted the decision on rules of procedure and how to vote on the Temporary Commission. [[Noise and lines on the left.]] Text accepted. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, there's a procedure here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u60	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, on behalf of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group and on the basis of art. 61, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure, I request a 30-minute recess.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u61	I'm calling an adjournment at 10.50. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u62	The Quaestors, please invite the MPs! There are those not present in plenary in all the parliamentary groups. Mr. Mestan wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u63	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! In the form of a procedure, I will make an important statement. The vote of the first paragraph brings constitutional change to a severe trial.. slowing down by two months. Of course, we accept these constitutional amendments primarily because of the public interest and not because of the European Commission. But we can't not keep tabs on the partners' assessment as well. We have expressed a principled position on the issue of putting parts of the judiciary under parliamentary control. However, after a text has not been adopted, which puts a part of the judiciary under the direct control of the parliament, which was contained in the verb............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Noise and shouts: "Eee!"]] I know, I had a clear mind that these reactions would be caused. But in the name of the compromise, for the sake of the public interest, that is why Parliament is, can allow a re-vote procedure. Moreover, some colleagues said that their vote was not properly taken into account in the couloirs. Of course, it's your decision. If we reject this procedural proposal for a re-vote, which will give the text a chance to receive a majority of 180 votes of support, we will bring the process of changing the Constitution into quite complex disputes as to whether it is correct for this text to pass on four votes, because the other texts will be delayed by two months, which was not the aim of the importers of the constitutional project. The movement for rights and freedoms has proved that, for the sake of public interest, it can compromise, regardless of the epithets, historically and similar. So, Madam President, I leave it to the will of the majority of MPs to support or not the procedural proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms to re-vote the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u64	In return, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u65	Thank you, Madam President. This proposal is ridiculous. There were two votes. We have to do third. It cannot be any interest to sit above the Constitution, above the adopted rules, because the Constitution and it is these rules that protect the public interest to the greatest extent. If we ignore both the Constitution and the rules under which we are guided, where are the meaning and form of the National Assembly going? That's absurd. I am making a reverse proposal not to go into such extremes, depending on the Law, not on the Constitution, from quite other dependencies.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u66	Honourable Members of Parliament, during the interruption, MPs said that because of the panel [[beeping loudly: "Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!"]] Their voice was miscounted. In any other case, such changes have been made after a deliberate statement from the stands. However, given the importance of voting and the responsibility of each MP, I will put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Mestan. [[Noise and lines.]] Either way, the text has not received 180 votes and will in any case be subject to a new vote. However, if the outcome of the upcoming vote is different, we would overcome the need for a new vote in two months, in which sense Mr Mestan's statement was. I would like to put to the vote Mr Mestan's proposal to hold a re-vote on this text from the whole plenary. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB, lines from RB.]] I cannot personally make changes to the votes of the Members of the National Assembly for the reasons of the panels, as we had problems at the beginning of the plenary session. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB. MPs Atanas Atanasov, Radan Kanev and Grozdan Karadzhov want the floor.]] Voting mode. Did everyone get a vote? Is there a problem with the consoles? Vote 189 MPs: 130, against 49, abstention 10. The procedural proposal has been accepted. I am now voting § 1 on the Commission report. Voting mode. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP LB:]] I'll give you a chance! To everyone on the left and on the right I will give you the opportunity to conduct a procedure. We are voting § 1 on the Commission report. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Are all the MPs in the room? Did everyone vote? They voted 225 MPs: 191, 34 abstentions. The proposal is supported by more than 180 votes. Mr. Ermenkov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u67	Madam President, honourable Members! We have witnessed unacceptable actions related to the example that the National Assembly gives for compliance with the laws, for compliance with the procedures, for compliance with the rules which it itself has adopted! I understand that the DSS colleagues are encouraged to show that they are the essential, main, governing part of this Parliament and that without them nothing can happen, that it is time for one of the coalitions to be replaced with others more readable! [[Laughter, excitement.]] But that will be laughter among the people! You have currently tabled all amendments to the Constitution, which are yet to be adopted, in doubt, if they are adopted, because you have turned an important vote into a circus! The people will not forgive you for this! [[Unique applause and cheering, Bravo!.. by BSP LB and noise at the bottom of the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u68	The way you're holding Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u69	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct because I expected you and other arguments to remind the Chamber and BSP that this is not a precedent in parliamentary practice. I will refresh your memory and memory of your colleagues from BSP. In the last parliament, not so far, in this House we voted at least twice, re-voted text already. And refresh my colleague Ermenkov's memory. We of the DPS and you of the BSP once reworded one of the texts of the Budget Act with similar, similar arguments. So here are pathetic precedents how this is going to stay in history and so on... This is a normal parliamentary practice. [[Laughter in BSP LB]] which is not contrary to the Constitution and the laws. Please: no unnecessary drama and patheticism, because the moment is already tense enough! [[Single applause from the DPS. National Representative Tasco Ermenkov raises his hand for a personal explanation. Noise and lines by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u70	Mr. Ermenkov was mentioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u71	Isn't it procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u72	Colleagues, there is no distinction between in procedure or in speeches. How are you affected, Mr. Ermenkov? Put it in the room. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u73	Madam President, honourable Members! I was mentioned for participation in a re-voting procedure for I do not know which way in terms of the budget which Mr. Tsonev himself was defending and knew very well that he was wrong. Because he didn't get over it the first time. [[DSS and DSS lines]] He personally asked for a rescind. Personally, I didn't vote because I always try to follow the rules as they are. [[Noise and lines from GERB and DPS.]] The fact that there was then a precedent in terms of the budget does not justify that today, with regard to the basic law of the state, we are trying to open changes in the second way, through the back door. If someone is used to going in from there, it is not the Bulgarian Socialist Party. [[Laughter, lines and excitement in GERB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u74	Mr. Korman Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u75	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Madam President, I'm addressing you with a request. After each vote, because there are important votes running, let's put on the monitors how the vote went in groups, because tactical moves are also being made, let's not call from place to place. This will guide us in the strategy of the different parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u76	I accept your offer, Mr. Ismailov. After every result I have announced, I will ask for a display of the monitors of the distribution of the vote in groups. Now there's a negative vote from Mr. Bojinov. First negative vote by Mr. Bojinov according to § 1 - new, from the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u77	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I voted both times against it in a deep conviction. In the third vote, Madam President, I had further grounds. This is art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, There in al. 1 writes: The outcome of the vote shall be announced by the President immediately. (2) Where the voting procedure or the outcome thereof is challenged immediately after its completion, the President shall order that it be repeated. The result of the re-vote is o-con-te-len. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo" by BSP LB.]] Ladies and gentlemen, here in front of the audience, we have witnessed what is eating away at the justice system. Today it is the subject of criticism and discontent in society because it is subjected to severe external dependencies and ugly internal mutual dependences. You confirmed today how in one break you made a deal. [[Applause from BSP LB]] , and colleagues from the DPS ignored the main highways with which they explained why they would not support this text, changed their arguments as a result of an agreement in front of the audience! It's eating away at the justice system! What you have done today is a prerequisite so that there is no trust in what you will do from now on! [[Applause and cheering "Bravo" by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u78	Mr. Lazarov, we're listening to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u79	Proposal from the National Representative Petar Slavov. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 sentence third and para. 3 of the Rules on the procedure for discussing and adopting the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal of the MP Radan Kanev, Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 sentence third and para. 3 of the Rules on the procedure for discussing and adopting the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal of the MPs Atanas Atanasov, Radan Kanev and a group of MPs: The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 sentence third and para. 3 of the Rules on the procedure for discussing and adopting the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal of the MPs Radan Kanev, Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 sentence third and para. 3 of the Rules on the procedure for discussing and adopting the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal of the MPs Radan Kanev, Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 sentence third and para. 3 of the Rules on the procedure for discussing and adopting the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. According to § 1 of the importing proposal from the National Representative Borislav Borisov, Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 129, para. The Supreme Judicial Council shall be replaced by the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council and shall be replaced by the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Borislav Milanov, Nikola Hangzhiyski and a group of MPs. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 sentence third and para. 3 of the Rules on the procedure for discussing and adopting the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal from the MPs Volen Siderov, Yavor Notev and Desislav Chukolov. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 sentence third and para. 3 of the Rules on the procedure for discussing and adopting the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposals of the MP Radan Kanev, Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 sentence third and para. 3 of the Rules on the procedure for discussing and adopting the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle, i.e. 1 is reflected in its systematic place in art. 130a, para. 5, t. 2. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 129 the following 1. In para. 1 after the words of the judge, respectively the prosecutor's college is added. 2. In para. 2 sentence first after the words 3. In para. 3 in the text before t. 1 after the words "with a decision of the judge, respectively the prosecutor's college is added."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u80	The debate is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to take part in this matter. Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, it's strange everything, this farce that's happening here, so many proposals and they don't want to protect them from the importers themselves. We set a pretty good example of how the National Assembly works and then we wonder why it has this authority. Some proposals are being tabled seriously, the right to a legislative initiative is being exercised, and those who import them do not protect them. Strange way to participate in the National Assembly. We from BSP left Bulgaria are opposed to the division of two so-called Colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council.The Supreme Judicial Council is a body for the administration of the judiciary, the administration body and there is no place for the professional biography of its members to be a criterion for distribution, because this contradicts the unchanged principle of the Constitution that both law professors and lawyers participate in the Supreme Judicial Council. This is normal because the public must have a presence, whether it is a presence achieved by the Magistrate quotas or by the parliamentary quota. Because the understanding of a college is unlike that type of organ. The other would mean the National Assembly to make its own colleges, the Council of Ministers to make a power college or a force college for defence, internal affairs and justice, and an agricultural and environmental college and to replace the decisions essentially of the constitutional body. The separation of such a principle will lead to the closure of the systems within the judge's and prosecutor's system, will reduce internal mutual control and deterrent. That is why the body is of 25 people to have more opinions. The vices of the judicial system will be easier to exercise when the organs are smaller. It will be much easier to have an impact in an organ of 10 people than 25. Obviously, this is contrary to the stated principle of reform. Much less transparency will be found in the rules of action of these bodies, it will be difficult to administer the judiciary. There is yet to be a long process of resetting. After all, the proposals tabled are a compromise, I do not know whether historically or a compromise that does not correspond in any way to what was proclaimed in the Judicial Reform Strategy. This brings back the functioning of the judiciary's governance. There are some strange suggestions that I'm going to allow myself to comment on. I cannot understand how there are MPs who want to abolish the right of the prosecution to take action to abolish unlawful acts. This proposal was made by the MPs Atanasov, Kanev, Korman Ismailov, Ivan Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u82	It hasn't been discussed since it's out of range.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u83	It has not been discussed, but how can, Madam President, there be a MP who proposes that the prosecution do not have an initiative to abolish illegal acts of municipal councils, the mayors? That is, to remain the state where the prosecutor will sit and watch unlawful acts are adopted and will not react. These are bordering on absurd proposals. Honourable Members of Parliament, the compromise referred to as the historical one will surely give a historic majority for the adoption of this amendment to the Constitution, but it will create conditions for historical regression in what Bulgaria is doing under the Chapter of Justice and Home Affairs, which is subject to verification and partnership by the European Commission. We from BSP left Bulgaria and we will vote against this because we believe that it takes Bulgaria back, does not lead to reform of the system, but rather leads to further deepening of the problems in it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u84	Any lines to Mr. Mikov? The line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm taking a line on what I heard from Mr. Mikov to explain. He has to read the texts systematically. One of the proposals of the Venice Commission consists in making such legislative changes that the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office will come in the new time, Mr. Mikov. Because this text, that it takes action for the annulment of unlawful acts, is from that time when the prosecution exercised the so-called "common supervision" called by some Members of the European Parliament. But that's another topic. I would like to tell you very professionally why this text should be repealed, although the Commission did not consider it because it considered it to be out of the scope. Because in the next item. Article 6 127 is provided that the prosecution in the cases provided for by law involves civil and administrative cases. That is, the National Assembly, by adopting a certain law, considers that the prosecution should have the power to initiate or participate in any kind of administrative or civil proceedings and gives this power to the prosecution and not to this text, which enables in any case the prosecution to intervene, including in commercial disputes. Should the prosecution be involved in trade disputes, I ask? As for what you said about the acts of the local authorities, they are subject to appeal, on the one hand, before the governor and, on the other hand, before the administrative courts. There is a mechanism for controlling these acts. So all that you are saying is absolutely untenable and shows that you stayed in time before 1989. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u86	Second line? A hole, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Mr. Atanasov, this is not about trade disputes. We are talking about the annulment of illegal acts of the executive power. Central and local! [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u88	Mr. Mikov, outside the scope of the bill is...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u89	Okay, now do I have the right to the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u90	You do, of course, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u91	He's making a line for me. Why didn't you tell him his line was out of range?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u92	Because you brought it up in your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u93	Madam President, there's speculation here, the National Assembly is deluded and we're not to say anything?! We won't keep quiet! Because it is about the prosecution's intervention in unlawful acts of the executive power, central and local! And it is quite different from the right to participate in administrative and civil affairs! It has nothing to do with the other! In one case it is a dispute about interests before a court of law, in the other case it is about unlawful acts which are very often dictated by corruption preconditions, by illegal, illegal, corrupt reasons! Why do you want the D.A. to do nothing?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u94	Because all acts are subject to judicial review!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u95	I believe that this only confirms the direction in which the majority is moving and less rule of law in Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u96	The way you're holding Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Madam President! Earlier in today's sitting, we had an explicit vote by which we decided on texts which the Commission considered to be outside the scope of the initially tabled bill, not to discuss and not to vote. Therefore, I ask you, when you see that a Member of the National Assembly is beginning to discuss such texts, simply interrupting them, so that we do not waste unnecessary parliamentary time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u98	Mr Kazak, this is what I have been doing so far with regard to unsupported, that is, unexamined texts in the Commission. I guess it's not enough just to get involved, it's just to take away the sound. But I think we're responsible enough not to get into a procedure like this. Mr. Popov, in the manner of conduct. You're going to suggest the opposite.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u99	Thank you, Madam President. I also call on you to respect the rules and regulations on the organisation and activities of the National Assembly, only until now we have not observed this thing, which has been expressed in the recent vote on the already adopted text. What my colleague Atanasov spoke here was also out of range, but there was no remark from you to his reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u100	However, it was a replica of the main speech that commented on his proposal, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u101	However, it also went beyond the scope of the proposals adopted by the Commission under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u102	Thank you. I'll consider the remark made. I will keep strict eye on the statements of the European Commission as to whether they fall within the scope of the bill and whether they are on the proposals that have been debated by the Commission. Mr. Belemezov for speaking on your proposal, which has been examined but is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u103	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Madam President, the ABB withdraws its proposal and the reasons for our decision are as follows. ABB supports the functional separation of the Supreme Judicial Council of Colleges so that judges organise the activities of judges, prosecutors and investigators respectively to organise the activities of prosecutors and investigators. Our vision was that the plenary would retain its common functions so as not to encapsulate individual communities. This proposal of the ABB shall assign the exercise of constitutionally established competence with regard to the management and organisation of the judicial system. It follows entirely the principles and construction of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary, submitted by the ABB at the beginning of the year. ABB's idea of independent colleges to offer solutions to the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council initially met serious support. Subsequently, especially after the report of the Venice Commission, more serious support met the proposal for entirely independent colleges. And at present there is no answer to the question: how will the division of the Supreme Judicial Council contribute to the reform of justice? We only see it as a first step towards judicial reform. As we are co-operating with the present draft amendments to the basic law and supported the functional division of colleges, as by importer, I declare the withdrawal of this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u104	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u105	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Dear colleague Belemezov, yes, you can withdraw your will, but under this proposal have signed many of your colleagues and until we hear that they also withdraw it, I think it is wrong... [[Arrival in GERB and DPS, shouts: "Eee! "]] I am expressing my opinion on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, Members. [[Replyes: come on!]] That's right, there's no way we're going to follow the rules that we've adopted. This proposal, by the way, was really a compromise that the left side could support.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u106	Well, you're against splitting up at all, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u107	With your withdrawal in person, as I do not know the figure to have the authorization of a certain MP from the other MPs, you create prerequisites for part of the left group not to be able to support things that are reasonable. This was a really sensible proposal and we could support it. The philosophy of dividing one body defined by the Constitution into three new bodies is wrong. Therefore, I would like to invite you to do not consider the proposal of my colleague, Bellemezov, to be withdrawn and to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u108	Second line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u109	Mr. Belemezov, I also urge you not to withdraw your proposal, because otherwise you will get what is the biggest protest of the clerk: Mr. Chief, and I have my own opinion, but I do not agree with him. Please withdraw very much and let us vote on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u110	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u111	Dear President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Georgiev! In fact, the first sentence we started with is that the ABB withdraws its proposal, which I believe fully answers the question and reply you have asked in the course of the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u112	Any other MPs?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u113	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u114	Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u115	Thank you, Madam President. It is obvious that there is no debate on the substance, but on texts that are not at all subject to discussion. The left side, we get it, everyone's voting against it. The colleague will ask him another time, when he gets up to speak, you are young, quickly walk to save time. [[Laughter]] I would like to call off the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u116	A reverse opinion? Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u117	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Professors of Constitutional Law! I am making a reverse proposal and please do not put this proposal to the vote. We accept the Constitution of the Republic. Let all MPs freely express their views on the individual texts and in general! Please do not accept the proposal of colleague Bajraktarov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u118	Mr. Haytov, you know very well that once such a request has been made, I can't help but put it to the vote. I agree with your opinion that when discussing amendments and amendments to the Constitution, it is not right to take away the possibility of MPs putting those on the proposals. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal to end the debate on § 2 of the Commission report. Vote 205 MPs: 55 against 80, abstention 70. The motion is accepted. Until now, Mr. Popov has applied for a statement. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues, honourable lecturers! The division of the Supreme Judicial Council into two colleges will not solve the real problems in the judiciary as an imbalance in the workload of the courts, objective division of cases, speed and quality in the process. By what mechanism will one member go to one college and the other to the other? As an example: the Attorney General, who has been a judge for over 20 years and has been a Prosecutor General for 3 years, on what mechanism and principle will he go to one or the other College? There are a number of examples of members of the Supreme Judicial Council who are now members of the Supreme Judicial Council. This, honourable Members, will encapsulate the two colleges even more, will make them even more self-sufficient. With structural changes, as far as it can be said at all that they are structural, no qualitative rise can be achieved. Let me ask you: who chose these members of the Supreme Judicial Council, and now you want to replace them? Here is the great battle to master the chair at the Supreme Judicial Council. This is the purpose of these amendments, which have been voted in spite of the Staff Regulations, which are being held in the Supreme Judicial Council. We from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria and we cannot participate in this Alush verish, we cannot do experiments with the Constitution because the Constitution is not Philip Zlatanov's grocery book, it cannot be scribbled and all kinds of whims and experiments can be added. We must be guided by the beginnings that are written in this sacred for everyone, at least for every lawyer, book. These proposals, these changes will do no good. We're all dressed up, dressed up these changes in the decent dress of reform, that is to say, society has more confidence in the judiciary. In a very short time, society will see that they are infertile. And not trusting the judiciary, the institutions in Bulgaria, including parliament, will increase many times. Now you have proved it by violating the procedure and rules of procedure, by voting three times on one proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u120	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u121	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The so-called constitutional reform for the judiciary has been granted to us as something great, big...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u122	We're not voting first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u123	Relax, colleague Lazarov. ...as a historic compromise, and ultimately we see that this reform is actually a big bargaining chip.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u124	Paragraph 2 of the report awaits a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u125	I'm talking about §2 right now. On top of that, it's about to become a major historic failure. This will be a failure, because if we divide a constitutionally defined body, such as the Supreme Judicial Council, into three new bodies, notice a plenum and two colleges, we will make such a chaos in the judiciary, which will not be able to be corrected for years thereafter. Such bargaining will lead to an outrage. I'm saying this directly. It's an outrage in the judiciary. Why won't we from BSP leave Bulgaria support this constitutional change? First of all, because she's unconstitutional in her own right. Deal with the Constitutional Court's decisions, which says that there is a certain device in the judiciary, certain bodies that have a certain competence, and any change leading to the seizure of functions of an authority...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u126	Mr. Georgiev, this statement is for first reading in principle the philosophy and scope of the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u127	No, no. This speech relates to the division of the two colleges, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u128	Please. Colleagues of your group made a note to me strictly to apply the Rules, and I agreed with them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u129	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u130	If you do not comply with my recommendation to speak on the text, I will take your word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u131	I am opposed to having two colleges and I will tell you that the philosophy of this text rests on the principle of division and rule! There are certain behind-the-scenes factors that want this separation to have better control over the judicial authorities. That's obvious. If we vote on this text, we will allow this backstage in the judiciary. Isn't that clear? What will lead to this separation from the point of view of improving the functionality of the system? Nothing at all. It'll mess her up, it'll only create chaos. Neither justice will become faster, nor the rights of citizens and legal entities will be better protected. This shows that the proposed text by honourable Members is pointless, inappropriate and harmful as a constitutional text, will confuse the judiciary. And we have had a clear and consistent policy on this. And we have warned you from the beginning: do not make such judicial reform! We are not opposed to making efforts to improve the work of the judicial authorities. It's obvious that there's a need, but not like this. This is a disastrous way for the judiciary, but clearly there is no hearing, Madam President! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u132	I listen to you very well and I hear absolutely everything.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u133	Thank you for that. [[Noise and lines.]] I guess my colleagues don't understand what a disastrous decision will be made right now. Our only hope may remain the mind of the Constitutional Court to decide whether these changes are constitutionally relevant or not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u134	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any other MPs who would like to speak? Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u135	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! Indeed, this is the first of the two paragraphs that govern, essentially, the division of the Supreme Judicial Council into two parts, and with its possible vote, this division is already a fact, regardless of the need for serious revision, which is in the next paragraph of the Bill, so it is also a place to be seriously protected because, apart from the fact that it is the will of the majority, if we judge by the signatures which have been collected of a qualified majority in Parliament, other serious arguments are poorly presented to the Bulgarian public and to the voters who stand behind us. For this reason, I would like to draw attention to the fact that one of the main reasons to insist on this separation of the Council is the philosophy of combating corruption in the judiciary, which is enshrined in this constitutional bill. It's not just that, but it's pretty much that. First of all, the court should be independent. This also stems from all the arguments we have heard so far in the Chamber, from all the international acts that form the democratic community and, of course, from the Bulgarian Constitution. The Court should therefore be independent: the judges elected by judges, but this is already the subject of the next paragraph, to have a majority in the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council, thereby guaranteeing independence. And here comes the big question: if they are independent, aren't the judges completely out of control something that you will say on the right hand side: "You are attacking prosecutors in Bulgaria for total out-of-control?"! Here, colleagues, there is a small but extremely important detail: there is a prosecution in Bulgaria. And this prosecution is at any time free and obliged to investigate the Bulgarian judges for corruption. That is why I said that my emphasis on speech would be on the effect on the fight against corruption. When prosecutors are separated from judges, they, first, retain these obligations and powers to investigate against corruption, but, second, receive serious internal independence of will when investigating corrupt judges, because if prosecutors participate in the appointment of judges, would they investigate, or would they place an umbrella on a judge, a magistrate whose choice they have contributed, possibly lobbied, possibly involved in agreements? I'm speaking directly as it happens. Of course, a prosecutor or subordinate to a prosecutor who has participated in Judge X's election will be slightly restrained in his corruption investigation, if you will, and because he bears his personal responsibility for the choice of this person. But there is another argument: if the judges participate in the selection of prosecutors, are these prosecutors independent to investigate them for corruption? And the natural answer is, "No." If your career development depends on a judge, it's very difficult for you to start a corruption investigation against this judge. For this reason, colleagues, the division of the Supreme Judicial Council into a judicial and prosecutorial quota gives both responsibilities and freedom and independence to both the Bulgarian Court and the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, dramatically increasing the chances of investigating judges for corruption. With regard to control and the possibility of investigating prosecutors for corruption, I will speak where it belongs, i.e. in the paragraph governing the two separate colleges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u136	First line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary! Dear Mr. Kanev, we're deluding the court. The members of the Supreme Judicial Council shall not be prosecutors, judges, lawyers or researchers. They are members of a permanent functioning body. When elected in this capacity, they lose their capacity as prosecutors and judges. They do not participate in court hearings, they do not write indictments, which they may have done before, while they are members of the Supreme Judicial Council. Your statement lies entirely in the assumption that the members of the Supreme Judicial Council elected by the prosecutors' quota are prosecutors. But they're not prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen! They have a biography before being elected, but they can be lawyers before, they can be judges, they can also be law researchers. And the members of the Supreme Judicial Council are in no way judges or prosecutors! This is a profound misunderstanding that lays at the heart of this type of division. They are obliged by law to leave their other magistrate function and to the time when they are members of the Supreme Judicial Council, as if a judge becomes a MP. Let me make this simple. If he becomes a minister, a prosecutor will cease to be a prosecutor. He performs another function, and I do not know how he investigates the judges of the former prosecutor, currently a member of the Supreme Judicial Council. It's a deeply misleading understanding. The separation from his previous function is a definite requirement of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u138	Second line - Mr. Popov, third line - Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u139	Thank you, Madam President. I, today after the speech of my colleague Kanev, understood two very interesting things, first of all, that the Supreme Judicial Council is a judicial body. Secondly, in order to combat corruption, we should divide into prosecutorial corruption, judge corruption, and plenum corruption. This is what you have just said, colleague Kanev, and I am very interested in how we are going to fight in such a gradual way by dividing this corruption into prosecutorial, judge and plenum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u140	Third line.. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u141	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleagues Kanev, this text shows your mimicry as appropriate, if I may say so. You do-do, you keep looking to justify that only and only the division of the Supreme Judicial Council into two colleges can be the panacea for the problems in the judiciary. But do you really believe that? And on top of that, you're hiding the subject that, yes, this is the opinion of our European and other partners. It's nothing like that! People almost raised their hands from us and said: "Whatever changes you do, because really the judiciary does not function well. And you came up with a division of the Supreme Judicial Council into two colleges. It's not gonna lead to anything! Nothing at all! It will make the prosecutors and judges more dependent, not more independent, than a smaller group of people who will take care of them. And I don't see how you don't understand that, and you're telling me that this was the only prerequisite for fighting corruption. On the contrary, you're legitimizing it. You create prerequisites, risks for even greater corruption. And I'm asking you to be more honest. You can't say white on black!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u142	A hole, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u143	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! With regard to the quality of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, I do not rely on the presumption that they are acting judges and prosecutors, but on the observations that we all have on the activities of the body during the relatively long period in which it is acting and therefore its members are not acting judges and prosecutors, as well as on the permanent practice to take advantage of the right after the end of their term of office in the Supreme Judicial Council to return to their former office as judges or prosecutors, that part of them who are elected in this capacity. So this is not about arguing about what their function is while they are members of the Supreme Judicial Council, but about practices within the Supreme Judicial Council and after their departure. Nothing more. With regard to the fight against divided corruption, Mr. Popov, I very much liked the expression because you felt and even better than I did expressed the benefit of such separation. I answer to Mr. Georgiev here to a large extent. Yes, the democratic and the rule of law are built on the mutual balance and control between functionally independent bodies of power. Yes, the functional separation of judges from prosecutors, as many other forms of separation of power, actually contribute greatly to efficiency, responsibility and control and fight corruption. Is it a panacea? My God, in no way is the separation of the Supreme Judicial Council a panacea. On the contrary, there are all the prerequisites for voting in this House today in an option with a very, very controversial benefit. And here I agree with you. But in principle, changing the Constitution is neither a judicial reform nor a judicial reform, let alone a panacea. It is an opportunity to unlock both a legislative process, a genuine reform, and to carry out the control in question between functionally independent authorities, which controls effectively implemented to reduce corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u144	Any other MPs for a statement? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Very substantial arguments were given. I'd like to add one more. In the current functioning Supreme Judicial Council and the way in which it is structured and elected, one of the parties in the criminal trial. The prosecution, the prosecution, by law, has its quota. Is it acceptable for the independent court to appear to two parties, one of which has a quota in the personnel body and is able to influence the independent court's personnel decisions?! That's the key. That is why they must be separated in order to have independent personnel policy in the two constituent parts of the judiciary. There's no argument against that either! [[Noise in the block of BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u146	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. The debate is closed and we are going to vote. The proposal for editing of art. 129, para. 1 under § 1 of the importer of the ABB group has been withdrawn and the Commission's proposal should therefore only be voted in favour of § 1 by importer renumbering § 2 and in the version of the Commission report. I shall put to the vote the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer of § 1, which shall become § 2, in the version of the Commission report. We are voting § 2 on the Commission report. Vote 231 MPs: for 196, against 35, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u147	Proposal by Yavor Haytov, Rumen Yonchev and a group of MPs: The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support it by t. 2: "2." Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The meetings of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be chaired by the High Judicial Council. Proposal from the National Representative Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle, i.e. 2 is reflected in its systematic place in art. 130a, para. Three and four. Proposal by Borislav Borisov, Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support it by t. 2 and 3: "2." In para. The 5th sentence is amended as follows: The Minister of Justice participates with the meetings of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council and may express opinions on matters of Plenum's competence. 3. In para. 6 in the beginning is added: The Supreme Judicial Council consists of Plenum and two colleges. The clenum Proposal from the MPs Volen Siderov, Yavor Notev and Desislav Chukolov. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 sentence third and para. 3 of the Rules on the procedure for discussing and adopting the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal by Radan Kanev, Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 sentence third and para. 3 of the Rules on the procedure for discussing and adopting the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev in art. 130 para. Five is canceled. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. It's time. 130 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 After the words the National Assembly is added by a majority of two thirds of the Members of the National Assembly and a sentence is created second: the Members of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be elected under the terms of art. 130a, para. 3 and 4 and in order determined by law. 2. Al. 5, 6 and 7 are cancelled.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u148	Statements under Paragraph 3 of the Commission report? Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I ask you to support what the MPs from the Bulgarian Democratic Center and the People's Union have done, and to propose that 11 members of the Supreme Judicial Council be elected by the National Assembly by a majority of two thirds of the MPs. The motive is that a few months ago, we had the opportunity to elect a Chief Judicial Inspector. This is a body of the Supreme Judicial Council. Then we gathered a two-thirds majority. Practically, when choosing the upper body, as is the Supreme Judicial Council, it is normal and logical to seek again such a majority, namely two thirds of all MPs. Secondly, as an argument I am asking for your support, it is also the fact that this is also one of the requirements of the Venice Commission, as we call the European Commission for Democracy through a law that monitors constitutional compliance with all adopted regulations. Last but not least, I also ask you to take into account the fact that by choosing members of the Supreme Judicial Council with two thirds of the MPs, we are practically denying any parliamentary group a party to exercise a single choice on members of this extremely important body, and this implies a certain element of political consensus, as we showed when we elected a chief judicial inspector. In relation to para. 5 which the Commission does not support. " President Lazarov tells me about it. Once again, I ask for your support and again justify the fact that this is one of the requirements of the Venice Commission. Let us make it clear that the Minister is a political person. What does he do and why does he participate in the meetings of the Supreme Judicial Council, so to speak, the Supreme Body of the Judicial System? This is a way in which we demonstrate that we do not want politics and political views, burdens to interfere with this extremely important body, the Supreme Judicial Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u150	A line? Mr. Yankov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u151	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Haytov, arguing the proposal, we do not need to mislead the audience and mislead the MPs. The Venice Commission has no requirements and we, reading the reports of the Venice Commission, are not obliged, but we have an opinion. The argument for the election of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council with two thirds of the National Assembly is sufficient for each of us. In the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria and we have discussed it and we have a concrete opinion. In our majority, we are prepared to support such an offer. Let us not delude ourselves that someone else dictates to us, because the decision we will make in the vote must still be informed, not the fruit of our deep error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u152	Second line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Iankov, I am pleased with what you said and especially in his part in which you said that BSP left Bulgaria would support this proposal of ours. With regard to allowing myself to mislead the National Assembly, God saved me! There are prominent parliamentarians here with outstanding internship and experience, and I could hardly let these decent people down. Remember, I pointed out three reasons: the opinion of the Venice Commission is only one of these three motives, so I ask for your support again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u154	To make a statement, they wanted Mr. Slavov. Mr. Popov and Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u155	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will be very brief. The proposals I have made are in the same direction to have a two-thirds majority for the choice of the so-called 'parliamentary quota', i.e. the representatives elected by Parliament to the Supreme Judicial Council. The other proposal to explicitly sign the direct choice of the representatives of the judiciary, that is to say that there is no possibility of the proposed choice through delegates' meetings, which has acquired quite a lot lately, I would say, a negative image. I take the word basically to make an editorial proposal. The Commission has supported my proposals in principle. What is missing and what I do not see in the final text is the words by a two-thirds majority of all MPs. The Commission has proposed to be a majority of two thirds of the Members of the National Assembly. My editorial proposal is to have the floor in front of the MPs. If you refer to the Constitution, you will see that everywhere in the basic Law, where there is talk of a majority or, more precisely, a qualified majority, everywhere is said by all Members of the National Assembly. I suggest that we keep this version in the name of accuracy, and that there is no doubt in the respective votes further............................................................................................... I think that this has been sustained and in the spirit of the Constitution, you will see further.... and with regard to the election of the Inspectorate I have made the same proposal: to observe this systematicness in our basic Law, which still exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u156	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? Any other MPs for a statement? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I think that the proposal for a majority of two thirds of the MPs, called the quota, will in practice lead to dysfunction of the Supreme Judicial Council. Maybe that's what you're after. I don't know! We have a recent example of the Chief Inspector's choice. Colleague Haytov mentioned that we had chosen him, but how long? Three years. For three years, we couldn't make a choice as chief judicial inspector because of this majority. This fragmentation of the National Assembly, of the Parliament, will not lead to greater representation of these two thirds. On the contrary, it will lead to greater bargaining, as we witnessed earlier on the break. My other question is to importers and I am doing it in the form of a statement: why only the parliamentary quota? What about the rest of the quotas? The quorum is too low there. Do they have less representativeness or lower functions than those elected by parliament? Why are we squeezing them? Why does the National Assembly have a two-thirds majority and you do not have a requirement for such a majority from the other quotas?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u158	Any lines to Mr. Popov? I won't. Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u159	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are convinced that the recommendation made repeatedly to our country to change the majority when electing members of the Supreme Judicial Council from the National Assembly quota must find a place in the basic law. In this way, we will ensure that the members of the Supreme Judicial Council from the parliamentary quota, even though they are elected by the National Assembly, are equally distant from all political parties and their choice will be the result of held professional qualities. There is no reason why such a proposal is made by other parliamentary groups. In the rest we have expressed our particular opinion on the Presidency of the plenary and the Colleges in an expression of another understanding of legislative symmetry. Our idea of rotation in the chairmanship of the plenary and the colleges did not meet support. The Commission supported the import text, not proposals from us. We have proposed that the Minister of Justice take part in the plenary meetings and express his views because of our understanding that we should not go to the other extreme and let the executive be a silent witness to what is happening in the judiciary. In the Commission, the import text prevailed, and this is also an additional argument by which we withdraw the proposal under point 1. Two and three. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u160	- What's the line? Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u161	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! My fellow Members, I would urge you to support the proposal for a choice through two thirds of the MPs, as it is indeed possible that this will lead to more auctions, but at the same time will also lead to a choice of more consensus figures. But the reason I came out here in front of you is because of the offer I made, and it's in art. 130 para. 5 to be canceled. Article 130, para. 5 right now sounds like this: The meetings of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be chaired by the Minister of Justice and shall not participate in the votes. In fact, what I propose is that the same text be transferred to art. 132, adding that if the Minister of Justice is absent, he shall be replaced by the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. The Commission has adopted this proposal, for which I thank you and call on you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u162	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? People's representative Mikhail Mikov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! Honourable Members of Parliament, in fact, with this proposal approved by the Commission, the function of the Supreme Judicial Council is eliminated to hear and adopt annual reports of representatives of the various parts of the Prosecutor's Office, the Court of Cassation and the Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u164	There's more to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u165	In the same way, the Minister of Justice is increasingly going to the Minister of Prison Affairs and taking away his functions. Perhaps it should be reconsidered in the next cabinet that Bulgaria does not have a minister of justice and that there should be a minister of the prison case. Because it is the Supreme Judicial Council, the minister's function to lead the meetings, that is where executive and judicial authorities interact. The place where they point out those issues without which the judiciary can't solve them on its own by leaving the budget and getting to the property issues. Such ignoring the Minister of Justice and the transfer further back of certain powers violates the entire structure. It is obvious that this Parliament is seeking a two-thirds majority so that more groups can participate in the bargaining of the Supreme Judicial Council. It's obvious that. We, as an opposition group, would also be interested in participating in this bargaining, but this is harmful to the construction of the body. Experience with the Inspectorate, which was also in the opinions of European experts, has shown what it means to not be able to elect a new Chief Inspector. There is a serious risk with high majorities blocking trade, and obviously today this is being passed as a platform in the Constitution.. each group to have one representative and to make trade with the universal consensus majority. It is obvious that this is the purpose of such a change, it is obvious that small groups support decisions in the Constitution because of their promise to join one person in one of the quotas somewhere along the way. This is obvious not only for us, it is obvious to Bulgarian citizens, it will become more visible to European experts as well. So in no way can the support of such a two-thirds majority be justified, all the more so that Bulgaria has the bad experience of doing so. Bad experience! Obviously, behind-the-scenes trade must shift the clear responsibility of the majority in choosing members of the Supreme Judicial Council. If that's what you want, then that's how you do it. I will not support such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u166	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u167	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Here were made suggestions that, you see,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u168	You're replicating again, Mr. Lazarov. Make a statement. I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u169	Yes, I will make a statement, Madam President. ...the choice with two thirds was to make some kind of bargain. The choice with two thirds means that there will be no possibility of any political party or coalition of parties, or one or two parties imposing forceful practices such as there have been in the previous years, the election of members, in the particular case of the Supreme Judicial Council. This approach and 2007, when amending the Constitution, was voted by a constitutional majority of 180 people as regards inspectors. And so far, in the two choices of inspectors, honourable Members, the choice took place, there was no cancellation of the choice of inspectors. There was no failure to choose the ten inspectors. Let's say it! Therefore, I propose to support this text because it really means that there will be no politicisation of the imposition by one political party or another in the election of members of the Supreme Judicial Council. The idea is really to look for good professionals, people consensual, people with high professional and moral qualities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u170	First line, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u171	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, the previous one started with the question: Yeah, we can see. We see the reasons and they are happening in front of our eyes a parliamentary group before us here in the Chamber, withdraws extremely rational proposals and it does so to give you today the necessary votes to receive tomorrow not equally distant, as candidates say, but to participate in the agreement and that is obvious. We see it, and that's why we react. When the President of our parliamentary group based his opinion on you, we decided to vote on this issue on conscience. However, now that we see, Mr. Lazarov, how small parliamentary groups are trading before our eyes, we will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u172	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u173	Thank you, Madam President. From the line everyone can conclude which parliamentary group will not vote on conscience.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u174	There are no other willing ones. The debate is closed. Mr. Kazak wants the floor. You should have raised your hand earlier, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u175	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I cannot understand the positions expressed by this tribune against the possibility that the future Supreme Judicial Council may be elected by a qualified majority in respect of the parliamentary quota. Whenever broad representativeness was sought, whenever guarantees were sought against any attempts to impose a certain political will on one or a limited number of political forces in a body which is, in principle, independent of the National Assembly, the requirement for a qualified majority was the most reasonable, most rational way to achieve this. This is where Mr. Mikov used a turcism. Mr. Mikov, in Europe they use the term "consultations" so if you prefer the Turkish word, I can only be happy. In Europe, this is what they do, and that's how they come up with it, and that's what they do, and that's why the Venice Commission recommends it explicitly. We can't find the hot water. This is a guarantee that there is no possibility of any political power governing it, only it to broadcast the parliamentary quota in the Supreme Judicial Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u176	Any lines to Mr. Kazak? Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kazak, I thank you, whether it is the Turkish word or its European garments, it is something outside the Chamber. Obviously today's reform, so-called, lays new and new opportunities for things to happen outside the hall, outside the majority, outside the clear responsibility of the deal, is not a Turkish word. Obviously, that is the purpose of the proposals adopted. We're just saying we don't want any part of this. Some of us might be involved without me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u178	Second line? I won't. Will you use the hole, Mr. Kazak? No. Now the debate is closed. There is a vote to be taken, I invite the Members of the House. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Yavor Haytov, Rumen Yonchev, Georgi Kovachev, Svetlin Tanchev and Borislav Iglev in the part where the Commission does not support it. We are voting unsupported by the Commission for a proposal. Vote 224 MPs: 44, against 24, abstention 156. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of my colleagues from the ABB in the section on this point. 2 and 3 and in this part the proposals are not supported by the Commission. [[ABB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u179	They pulled him out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u180	I missed the offer. In this Chamber Mr. Slavov supports the Commission's version: "Keeps by a majority of two thirds of the MPs" is the text of the Commission to be written by all MPs. The Constitution has examples in both one direction and the other specifically for voting by.. two thirds members of the Inspectorate. The correct term is two thirds of the Members of the National Assembly, but anyway Mr. Slavov has made the proposal, I am obliged to allow it...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u181	The People's Republics are all Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u182	It is, it is, but he has a different view, and I have to vote. [[Relations from the MP Mihail Mikov.]] I put to the vote Mr. Slavov's proposal, instead of the Members of the National Assembly, to be of all Members of the National Assembly. They voted 185 MPs: for 59, against 51, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. Now, fellow Members, we are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 in the version of the Commission report. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 229 MPs: 217, against 12, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u183	In § 2 the People's Representative Petar Slavov is proposed by the importer. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1, and c. 2 is withdrawn: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 130a, para. 6, p. 6 the words "real estates" shall be replaced by the property. There is a proposal from the MP Borislav Borisov, Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 letter (s) and does not support it under point (c). 1 point (b) and point (c) of Article 2 (1) 2: (b) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: In accordance with its professional needs, each of the colleges shall resolve the following questions: 1. resolve organisational issues of the relevant system by the judicial authorities; 2. draw up and propose to the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council the draft budget for the relevant system by the judicial authorities; 3. propose to the Plenum for appointment, promotion, relocation and release... PRINCIPAL CECCA TSACHEVA: Wait a minute, Mr. Lazarov. Colleagues, I'm asking you to make a request for withdrawal in due time, because he's reading, and you're telling me he's going to withdraw. If you're going to withdraw it, there's no point in wasting time. Come on in on the mike.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u184	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! ) (a.k.a. The Commission's unsupported texts are withdrawn. However, the President of the Commission is very fast and did not see me pick up the map. Thank you. PRESENT CECCA TSACEVA: Continue with the report with the proposals of Mr. Siderov and group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u185	There is a proposal from the MPs Volen Siderov, Yavor Notev and Desislav Chukolov. The Commission has not examined the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 sentence 3 and para. 3 of the Rules on the procedure for discussing and adopting the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 2: "2." In para. 6 t. 6 is out. There is a proposal from the MPs Radan Kanev, Ivan Ivanov, Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 130b is created para. 3: Only the members of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court shall have the right of proposals to the Supreme Judicial Council for proposals to the Prosecutor General only the members of the Prosecutor's College. Proposal of the MPs Atanas Atanasov, Radan Kanev, Korman Ismailov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In § 2, art. 130a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 5. (a) c. 3 the words "administrative leaders of the judicial authorities" shall be replaced by the Presidents of the courts and the heads of prosecutors. (b) New items shall be created. 4 and 5 and so on. 6, 7 and 8: "4." decide to terminate the term of office of an elected member of the relevant College under the conditions of art. 130, para. 8; 5. organise the qualification of judges, prosecutors and investigators; 6. prepare a draft budget of the courts and the prosecution and submit it to the plenary; 7. propose to the President of the Republic the appointment and release of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Prosecutor General; 8. the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall grant permission to file criminal charges against a judge, prosecutor and investigator under the conditions of art. 132 of the Constitution. The request to the relevant College shall be made by the Prosecutor General and shall be presented with the relevant evidence. The decision shall be taken by a majority of 2/3 of the members of the college; (c) points 4 and 5 shall become points 4 and 5 respectively. 9 and 10. 2. In para. 6: (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." adopt a draft budget of the Supreme Judicial Council, approving the independent budgets of the courts and the prosecution and submitting them to the National Assembly; (b) points 2 and 3 fall; (c) points 4 and 5 shall become points 4 and 5 respectively. 2 and 3; (d) a new item shall be created. 4. "4." at the request of 1/5 of the Members of the National Assembly, the Chief Prosecutor shall suspend his office in the event of a reasoned assumption of a criminal offence of a general nature. (e) paragraphs 6 and 7 shall be deleted. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 concerning Art. 130b, para. 1 sentence third, supports it generally in the rest of art. 130b and c. 1 (s) and 1 (s). Point 1 (b) (i) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: T. 2th sentence 3rd "The unsupported proposal: In the absence of the Minister of Justice, the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be chaired by the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. Proposal by the MPs Atanasov and Kazak, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Chetin Kazak, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 4: ............................................ A new article is being created. Art. 130a. 130b: Art. 130a. (1) The Supreme Judicial Council shall exercise its powers by means of a plenary, judge's and prosecutor's college. (2) The Plenum shall be composed of all members of the Supreme Judicial Council. The Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council: 1. adopt the draft budget of the judiciary; 2. adopt a decision to terminate the term of office of an elected member of the Supreme Judicial Council under the conditions of art. 130, para. 8; 3. organise the qualification of judges, prosecutors and investigators; 4. solves organisational issues common to the judiciary; 5. hear and accept annual reports under art. 84, p. 16; 6. manage the real estate of the judiciary; 7. propose to the President of the Republic the appointment and release of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Prosecutor General; 8. implements other powers defined by law (3) The College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council shall consist of 14 members and shall include the Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation and of the Supreme Administrative Court, six members elected directly by the Judges, and six members elected by the National Assembly. (4) The Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall consist of 11 members and shall include the Prosecutor General, four members elected directly by prosecutors, one member elected directly by investigators, and five members elected by the National Assembly. (5) Colleges in accordance with their professional direction: 1. appoint, promote, relocate and dismiss judges, prosecutors and investigators; 2. make periodic attestations to the judges, prosecutors, investigators and administrative directors of the judicial authorities and resolve issues of acquisition and restoration of irrevocability; 3. impose disciplinary penalties on the reduction and dismissal of judges, prosecutors, investigators and administrative directors of the judicial authorities; 4. appoint and dismiss the administrative directors of the judicial authorities; 5. resolve issues about the organisation of the activities of the relevant system of judicial authorities; 6. implement other powers defined by law. Art. 130b. (1) The plenary meetings of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be chaired by the Minister of Justice. He is not taking part in the vote. (2) The College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be chaired by the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. The Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be chaired by the Prosecutor General. The Minister of Justice may attend the meetings without taking part in the vote. (3) The Chief Inspector may attend the plenary meetings of the Supreme Judicial Council and the meetings of the Judge and Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council and shall not participate in the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u186	Go ahead, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Minister, since § 4 in the final form proposed by the Commission is composed, firstly, of two Members and in each of these Members there is a sufficient amount of paragraphs that treat different matter first, of what parts is the Supreme Judicial Council, how these parts are constituted, what powers the plenary has, what powers the colleagues have, this is a very different matter, I suggest you put to the vote, Madam President, and I ask you to support this proposal of ours, that each text be voted separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u188	Each subparagraph, do we vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u189	-Alinea by subparagraph, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u190	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Atanasov § 4 on the Commission's proposal to vote separately by paragraphs. They voted 209 MPs: 134 against 55, abstention 20. The proposal for a split vote by paragraphs of the new Article. 130a and 130b, the two new members proposed by the Commission have been adopted. Colleagues, the debate is open, but I suggest we take a break until 1:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u191	Colleagues, the meeting is ongoing. Before the interruption, we announced the beginning of the debate on § 4 of the report... the Commission's proposal to create new Articles 130a and 130b in the Constitution. Are there any MPs for speeches? Mr. Kirilov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u192	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I shall take the floor for a procedure with a proposal to extend the time of plenary until the end of this paragraph. 1 on the agenda by voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u193	Or, to put it simply, until the Commission's proposals on amending the Constitution and holding the vote on them. Is there a reverse opinion, colleagues? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made, which is resonant in my opinion. They voted 123 MPs: 108, against 8, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Are there any Members of Parliament who wish to speak under § 4... to establish new Articles 130a and 130b? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u194	Before the break, I asked for the floor first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u195	It is true that before the break Mr. Tsochev first submitted a request. You have the floor, Mr. Tsochev, with the kind consent of Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The ABB Parliamentary Group shall make these proposals in art. 130a, paragraphs 2 and 3, and I will allow myself to read them, because there are other proposals with quotas. In short: The College of Judges shall have fourteen members and shall include the Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation and of the Supreme Administrative Court, six members elected directly by the Judges and six members elected by the National Assembly. (3) The Prosecution College shall have eleven members and shall include the Prosecutor General, four members elected directly by prosecutors, one member elected directly by investigators, and five members elected by the National Assembly. The ABB parliamentary group proposes this redistribution of quotas to colleges because it achieves the most balance between authorities. We do not accept as an approach the independence of the judge's college to be guaranteed by dependence on prosecutors. An environment must be created that enables both systems to organise their work in the predominance of the professional over the political approach. So we shouldn't have to block the D.A.'s quota. It is speculated that ABB's proposal violates the independence of the judges' college and launches the idea that it is more important than the independence of prosecutors. It is seen that the three senior magistrates are not part of the professional quota, but part of the political quota. We think this approach is wrong. If we assume that the Presidents of the two Supreme Courts are not an integral part of the judicial quota, since they are not elected by the General Assembly of Judges, which, at a ratio of 6:6:2, which is our proposal, violates the balance and the requirement to dominate the judge over the parliamentary quota in the College, then this dominant is missing to a much greater extent and at a ratio of 6:5:2, which is the ratio voted at first reading. Moreover, according to the same logic that we do not share, it should be assumed that the Prosecutor General is not part of the professional community in the prosecutor's quota, which, in the first reading vote, is a ratio between the election and parliamentary quotas in the prosecutor's college, shows that there is no even balance between them and the parliamentary dominance over the prosecutor's quota, which is a rude violation of the balance between the authorities and the independence of the prosecutor's office. That is why our proposal regulates in the same way and guarantees for both communities that they will not be blocked by the directly elected parliamentary quota. Divide the functional Supreme Judicial Council into independent colleges who are not engaged in the personnel activities of the respective communities, achieving a division into the colleges, ensuring that the professional quota will not be blocked by the political ones, we should be aware that this reorganization in the Supreme Judicial Council does not run out of judicial reform. We will continue to insist on a comprehensive approach. It must be clear what the objective is not functioning and what we want to change. It is the only way to achieve the efficiency of the judiciary, justice, speed and irreversibility of penalties. Although today the National Assembly voted on these amendments to the Constitution, the Minister of Justice and the mandate holder must be aware of the responsibility from now on. The public expects changes in legislation that will lead to increased institutional control, compliance with deadlines, a fair trial. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u197	Any lines to Mr. Tsochev? First line, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u198	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Tsochev, this is obviously the sharpest controversial moment in the constitutional changes we are voting on. I would like to stress here once again that the examination of judges and prosecutors as completely equal and equal representatives of the judiciary, magistrates, is deeply wrong. I will allow myself to quote the Constitutional Court, not my own opinion, as it may be much more extreme. Judgment No. 8 of 2005 says: "The Grand National Assembly wills that three categories of bodies are involved in the implementation of the judiciary, the courts, prosecutors and investigative bodies. They are not and cannot be equal. The constitutional framework defines for each of them a different function and each of them with different intensity and with different means ensures the realization of the judiciary. And I return to what I said when examining the first paragraph of this Draft Law, the court should be completely independent and completely impartial, including fully limited by the possibility to pursue national criminal policy, while the prosecution, vice versa, has a responsible function to conduct a national criminal policy. And another thing, the court is under the control of the prosecution in every case when a magistrate from the court commits a crime. The prosecutor's office in Bulgaria, even when accepting the balanced quota 6:6, remains uncontrollable, with the original proposal of the importer providing at least a minimum opportunity for public control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u199	Second line? Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u200	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsochev, dear Mr. Kanev! Firstly, I would like to say that there is obviously a development in the opinion of Mr. Kanev, who just said that the court is also pursuing criminal policy and referred to a constitutional decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u201	You replicate Mr. Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u202	I'm just saying. I don't replicate anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u203	If you don't replicate, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u204	As for Mr. Tsochev's statement, I will say this, Mr. Tsochev, with regret and respect for you, of course: many words for nothing! Tales of functions, of importance and so on without any particularly important, essential to the ongoing reform. Once we have divided the Supreme Judicial Council into two colleges, from now on, there is almost no matter what their composition will be. At both 12 and 11, the D.A.'s role will be extremely high. We made him an all-powerful Zeus who will command the entire prosecutor's guild. At both 14, and 13 members, the role of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation will be extremely great for the development of this system, so these are fairy tales and, I would say, just a storm in a glass of water. It doesn't matter how many quotas there are right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u205	Third line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Tsochev, when we spoke on the previous text that we could not mechanically, professionally, divide the Supreme Judicial Council into colleagues of prosecutors and judges, right here in fact, in this proposal is shining all the madness of this division at all. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The Commission's proposal: the colleges in accordance with their professional capacity. What is this professional focus? To prosecutors, on the one hand, judges, on the other. So, they have a different professional purpose, and in the captivity, where they share in common, what will their professional purpose be? Maybe level three. So far, I don't know at universities to prepare prosecutors' staff, judges' footage, prisoner's footage, maybe?! Here you see all the madness at all of the division of the Supreme Judicial Council into two colleges. And these suggestions of yours, which are: in which one, this indeed, as my colleague Chavdar Georgiev mentioned, is a storm in a glass of water, wind and fog!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u207	A hole, Mr. Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u208	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks for the lines. Mr. Kanev, Radan Kanev has a proposal of his own. He's the one who justified it. I see that there is such a rapprochement in his thinking, and I hope they will support our proposal, which will be voted on shortly. As for what Mr. Philip Popov says about the captivity, well, in art. 130a, para. 2 is written: adopt a budget, adopt a decision to terminate a term of office and so on, until further details are given as to what the functions of the colleges are. And as for Chavdar Georgiev for the glass of stormy water I will ask the left side not to burst the glass and make a storm in the cup because they are doing so today. Let them vote in conscience. And there's a lot of professionals in there. To vote as they think it is right and not to create the tension that we have seen in this House since morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u209	The word wants Minister Hristo Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u210	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I take the floor because I believe that we have really come to the subject which, apart from the most controversial, is indeed extremely important and cannot be underestimated as a matter of a glass of water and so on. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u211	The Quaestors, please warn! Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. The guests of the balcony will be removed at the next event similar to this! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u212	If you'll allow me to proceed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u213	Mr. Secretary, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u214	The issue that stands for the allocation of quotas is a matter of value. And here we must make this matter very clear to your attention, because this is the value of the independence of the court in Bulgaria. And can we submit this value to others because it is no coincidence that when it comes to the rule of law and when it comes to the foundations of democracy, it is the independence of the court that is placed as such a value? All other types of professional independence, perimeters in which such independence is guaranteed to prosecutors, lawyers, other representatives of the legal professions, exist to serve the independence of the court because it is the high value and the high guarantee that we have to provide. From this point of view and from the point of view of the fact that it is precisely because of this value that there is a clear international standard, which with your votes has become a political document the Strategy for Judicial Reform, has been fixed the purpose of this division, and this aim was to achieve a situation where career decisions for judges are to be taken by a majority of judges elected by judges. And here let me explain to the colleagues of BSP: the issue is representation. Judges must have their representatives and these representatives must be a majority. It's not a question of who practiced what profession, how long he practiced and so on. The question is, who represents who? The clarification of this representation, of this face on these parts of the bodies, is actually a huge step towards the next and really important goal: to have a much clearer responsibility in the work of the two colleges that we foresee with this change. And from this point of view, we also have an international standard, we have a request in the Judicial Reform Strategy supported by your votes. If we do not meet this international standard, it does put this reform under a rather serious shadow, which I would very much regret. Let me also argue why the two great or presidents of the two supreme courts cannot refer to the judges elected by judges. First of all, because they were never elected by judges. And second of all, because very often they're not judges. We historically, in fact, in most cases, may turn out that the people who have held these posts for the past 25 years have not come from the judging career. And this is something that can continue to happen, that is, the two presidents of the Supreme Courts are not elected by judges and often have not been and will probably not be judges in the future. In this sense, they cannot in any way be allocated to the professional quota. There's no such standard for the prosecution. There is no such standard, there is no such requirement, and on the other hand it must be quite clear that indeed, as Mr. Georgiev said, the figure of the Attorney General, regardless of who the person in this position is, is extremely empowered. Predicting a strong parliamentary component in the prosecutor's college is the only way to start the process of introducing some democratic accountability in the work of the Prosecutor's Office. Bulgaria needs this thing. Bulgarian democracy needs this thing. I therefore call on you to support such quota allocation as was provided for by the project, which was the basis of the summer compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u215	To speak, Mr. Slavov is fine, then Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u216	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, on my own proposal, which I have made, and I have partially withdrawn on this point. 2, I mean, I'm pulling it out, and by that. 1. It concerns real estate management. However, the more substantial part of my speech is aimed at the proposal of colleagues from the ABB. I want to pay attention to a few things. Why do I feel that this proposal is not right? To be honest, I was hoping that Mr. Tsochev's absconding representative would eventually withdraw him. However, this did not happen, although it was taken under the letter "b" and beyond. Look, fellow Members, what an interesting situation we have: we have a proposal that is highlighted in point. 1 in which there are two points (b) and (b) in which there are two points (c) and (d) of point (c) of point (d) of point (i) of point (b) of point (i) of point (b) of point (c) of point (c) of point (c) of point (i) of point (b) of point (i) of point (c) of point (i) of point (c) of point (i) of point (c) of point (i) of point (i) of point (b) of The two points, of course, correspond to each other and are practically part of a whole. At the same time, the part under the letter "b" is withdrawn, which concerns quite different from the whole spirit of the Law proposals, that is, they suggested then that decisions be taken by the so-called "Plenum" - that is, the Members in question should make proposals to the plenary and that they should make the decisions. This thing's being pulled out. At the same time, however, remains the part referred to in (a) that makes the allocation of those quotas to the original project by increasing the presence of a parliamentary quota in the College of Judges and reducing it in that of prosecutors, thereby obtaining a majority. For me personally, by systematically reading these proposals, the two of them naturally correspond to each other, and the withdrawal of only one in practice contradicts the design that they originally wanted to put into these proposals. In other words, if the prosecutors have a majority in their college, with this majority being able to make proposals to the plenary, which can already be delivered on these proposals, which, if you agree, is quite different from making their own decisions. That is my essential remark to their proposal. I ask them to reconsider it and, eventually, if they decide, really edit it or withdraw it. As far as the text so supported by the Commission is concerned, fellow Members, I would like to remind you of what happened to the Constitutional Commission, where I was also present, although I am not a member. What impressed me is that the text by importer, this text, which more than 180 MPs have signed, more than 180 supported it at first reading, received the support of the Constitutional Commission from my colleagues from the Reformation Block and GERB, but from the other groups, MPs colleagues, although they signed it and supported it, supported it by their signature and voted for it at first reading, practically backed themselves from what they were holding. I appeal to them to reconsider this position, because it seems to me that it is right for a person to keep his word and sign positions. I will conclude with my commission from the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block to make an editorial proposal which I am giving to the President. [[submits the document to the President]] and what editorial proposal I hope will enable those of you who want to support the original version of the submitted bill to support it. Do not worry about the fact that they have to vote against the Commission's decision in practice and - by supporting it - to be able to confirm their commitment once again. I'll read it so you can hear what the offer is. It is in respect of paragraphs 3 and 4, the most controversial paragraphs. In para. The 3 figures of the National Assembly to be replaced by the words of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and to be replaced by the words of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. In relation to para. 4, the figure of "11" to be replaced by "12" and the words "five" members elected by the National Assembly to become "sexist." The original import text shall be restored. I call on you to support the editorial proposal which restores all that we have supported more than 180 MPs! I appeal to a conscience vote! Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u217	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members, today is the day of the great withdrawal. Some proposed reformers, ABB, others, and withdrew. There is no day in modern parliamentaryism in which more proposals to be withdrawn, which actually shows a very serious attitude towards parliamentaryism. It's more like a clear indication of bargaining. The reasons for the withdrawal are always non-parliamentary, not in the Rules and Constitution. They are the subject of the Turkish word...... the European deal............................................. and so on. I'm good to speak because the Minister's statement sounded strange. You can't change the Constitution and not be familiar with art. 117 of the existing Constitution, which, thank God, you are not changing this historic compromise. In para. 2, Dear Minister, it is said that the judiciary is independent. The court is not independent, the judiciary. In carrying out their functions, judges, judges, prosecutors and investigators shall be subject only to the Law. Obviously, the philosophy and understanding of these changes is the court to remain independent and the prosecution to remain politically dependent. Obviously, that's the only purpose. I don't know why you're ashamed to say this, but you're going to have to interpret your numerous statements as a conclusion. You want a politically dependent prosecution and investigation. That's what you want! Politically dependent was the prosecution and the investigation during some periods in Bulgaria and Soviet Russia and the results of this have seen each other. Why are you pursuing this today? The second principle question. We supported the Strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary with a clearly stated condition that no amendments to the Constitution will be made before legal changes are exhausted to outline the subject of constitutional changes. You went your way back and ran to support you. Well, how can we support you? In one year you have not made any changes to the legislation relating to the judiciary. None! None! And all this time, you swore that by changing the Constitution, miracles would happen. Miracles may occur in 15 days for children, but for Bulgarian citizens and for people who understand what is out of this work, they realize that the greatest miracle you have invented to serve them pre-Christmas will not happen. In the end, honourable Members of the majority, the damage and the introduction of the understanding that the management body may have professional quotas is absurd. I'm not gonna stop saying that. I think that at last people will understand that it is not possible in a body that does not perform justice, prosecution, investigation to seek professionality of quotas. You can't, on the other condition in the Constitution, that lawyers can participate, and scientific workers can participate, because the public should also be present there, and not shut down a judge's eye does not pull out, prosecutor's eye does not pull out. That's what you do. You want to isolate, close, encapsulate, and society to be less and less present in system management. As long as he's in charge of the budget. Who's gonna believe this is reform? And stop, dear Minister, talking about international standards. At the beginning of the discussion we clarified the issue of the third pillar, we clarified the issue of the exceptional diversity of the judiciary in all European countries. In one Germany, when the Minister proposes judges, are they dependent, Mr. Minister? Huh? Why don't you say that in Germany, the court is dependent and the minister offers them to the executive representative? But apparently other ministers choose there. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo" by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u219	Any lines to Mr. Mikov? First line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u220	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Mikov, God willing, let's get to the Germans about what you said. But I want to give you a line on the ground. You're quoting al well. 2 of art. 117, but why don't you go a little further in the texts and see what the interest is. The Attorney General has methodical guidance on all prosecutors. The Presidents of the Courts do not have such powers in relation to the courts down to this, first. Secondly, the Law on the Judiciary states that the prosecution is unified and centralized. The courts are not unified and centralized. The various bodies of the judiciary have a different device and mechanism of operation, so they cannot be placed under one denominator. That is why we propose this ratio of quotas in different colleges. And I have something serious to tell you, because today you are speaking here several times. You are very well trying to play extreme opposition, but it is in this vote that we will see how much part of your parliamentary group obeys the party leadership and what part obeys Gotse Parvanov. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u221	Second line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u222	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Atanasov, I am afraid that with such a reading of the Constitution we are moving exactly in the opposite direction of the rule of law and of the Germans. Right in the back, you run, you run fast! All that you have read as texts from the Constitution, I am still glad that your political power, which has been denying it for many years, even when it was admitted here, was lying before the Assembly, increasingly beginning to understand both the philosophy and the content of the individual texts, but the arguments you have told me are not relevant to the absolute requirement of equal independence of all. Just because the prosecution is hierarchical doesn't mean that the prosecutor, when performing the indictment, shouldn't comply with the law alone, and that's what the Constitution says. Because, as he takes into account the chief, he can give an unlawful act, and ultimately the same can happen in court, because they also comply in court. There are some years in which I can point them out and name who then played what role in the Supreme Judicial Council with who appointed them, the period of decommunization, when thousands of honest prosecutors and judges were fired by fax and brought the political cohort of the UDF, and then the roar that there was corruption. And don't worry about the opposition. The opposition has carefully discussed each text and will vote as the parliamentary group has decided. These simple intrigues you can do in the ruling majority, do not push them to the opposition. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u223	Are there other MPs to speak? I won't. The debate is closed, the vote is pending. I'm inviting the MPs to the House.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u224	We have a proposal on the texts. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u225	You have a proposal? We'll continue the debate. [[Noise and lines.]] There's a proposal. Mr. Atanasov has it now. [[(Sighs: "Eeeee!") by BSP LB. Noise and lines by GERB.)]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u226	Thank you, Madam President. I think it's extremely important. Please be quiet, let's leave the petty bickering alone! [[Noise and lines.]] This is what we're talking about. Dear Madam President, I suggest that you drop out of the text under art. 130a para. 2, p. 6, and I will argue this proposal. This text governs the management of the real estate of the judiciary. The proposed text proposes the management of the real estate of the judiciary to become the power of the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council. But, honourable Members, this is absolutely contrary to art. 106 of the Constitution, where it is governed that the management of state property is a power, i.e. an obligation, of the Council of Ministers. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] The adoption of such a text to transfer the management of real estate to the plenary means that we take away the power of the executive, which is regulated in another text of the Constitution. For this reason, I am making this proposal and I ask you to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u227	- What's the line? I won't. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u228	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. You are breaking the Rules of the National Assembly for the nth time today. You stopped the speeches, you called on the MPs to enter the Chamber, you decided that we would vote, and suddenly, somehow, a hand rose to give him the floor. Interesting, if that hand had gone up to the left, would you have noticed it, would you have given us the floor?! That's the first question. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] The second question, fellow Members, is: aren't you ashamed of the way the debates flow, the way the Rules are broken for the nth time? [[noise and lines]] in the adoption of changes to the basic law of the State?! Aren't you ashamed that this will come out in the transcripts and people will read it?! If I were you, I'd be very ashamed. Thank God I'm not one of you! Thank God we're not from you either. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Thank God, we're the only ones trying to keep some order. [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] Unlike you! [[Applause from GERB and BSP LB. Proclaims: "BCP!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u229	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, you are right at one point that after there were no more requests for speech, a call was made to the MPs to enter the Chamber, and I had also released the sound signal, the MPs who entered, asked for the floor to speak. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] And a little earlier today, on a deliberate procedural proposal for an opportunity to suspend the sittings, the plenary rejected this proposal, which means to me that it supported the view to enable any MP who wishes to be involved in the texts being discussed. In this sense, I think it was also the second part of your proposal. Yes, the transcripts remain, and that is why every MP should be given the opportunity to expose his thesis. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB. A line from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.]] I agree with you here that they should be in plenary all the time, not after being invited, then enter and declare a wish to speak. Mr. Mikov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u230	Thank you, Madam President. I take this procedure only to say that there is full reason in what Mr. Atanasov said. The National Assembly should not treat such serious things lightly. This in perspective can cause very big problems. Please cancel...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u231	This is not a procedure, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u232	Lazarov, you're just trying to suffocate me... [[Laughter]] Are you the one, brother? Is that you? What the hell are you? [[Laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u233	Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u234	Lazarov, sit here. Sit down. You're the one who's gonna suffocate me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u235	I'm asking for more serious treatment!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u236	Madam President, I am very serious about this: cancel, if you like, closing the discussion because...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u237	But it's been canceled because Mr. Atanasov... That is exactly what Mr. Ermenkov objected to, and I justified why I cancelled the closing of the discussion, and why we respect the procedural proposal made.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u238	Okay, are we gonna have a discussion on this or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u239	Yes, there will be, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u240	Oh, okay. Thank you. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u241	Are there any coworkers willing to discuss § 4? Mr. Mikov, you've taken the floor essentially on this paragraph. Mr. Kanev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u242	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! The position of the Reformation Block Group on this paragraph is clear and is expressed by colleague Slavov in the proposed procedural proposal. From now on, I will say a few words in a personal capacity, taking advantage of the right to speak as a Member of the National Assembly, not as chairman of a not so large party or co-chair of a not so large group. This paragraph raises a particular question.. the question of trust in Bulgarian politics. [[Reply.]] No, it's morality. It's trust. These are different things. In July, an extremely difficult compromise was reached, which, thanks to my rather far-fetched speech, has become the name of the "Historical." It is not in the category of historical compromises in politics. Others are historical compromises. He included numerous MPs from the power and opposition, as well as a product of direct negotiations between his sharpest opposing parliamentary groups in the current Parliament........................ those of the Reform bloc and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms............................................................ From now on, whether this compromise will be respected will prejudge both the possibility of building trust between power and opposition in this Parliament, which means the possibility of reaching agreement on national important issues which are extremely important in parliamentary democracy, so will determine the level of confidence within the ruling majority. This debate on trust is inevitably related to the debate on fear and dependence, because the change in many positions regarding the ratio of quotas reached within the framework of the July compromise was a direct consequence of a never-compressed media campaign in Bulgarian society. It expresses fears, and not give, God, also expresses dependencies that the MPs should not allow, because if they allow them, the next level of trust is destroyed, and that is the trust between the people's electors and their voters, which is still so fragile in Bulgarian politics that it is debatable whether it exists at all. I would like to emphasise that the tone of good education, cultural dialogue and personal humility that we are trying with relative success to impose in this House since the beginning of the term of office of this Parliament will not be violated, but trust will be severely violated if it is confirmed that the compromise achieved has been the victim of illegal political influences and political agreements between majority parties and opposition parties without direct negotiations. To conclude, I would like to say that the procedural proposal made has a very great political significance, because we have repeatedly heard the position of Movement for Rights and Freedoms, that if the three parties of the majority, which are part of the July compromise, have a consolidated position, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support it. For this reason, when voting on the procedural proposal, I would very much like to know in advance, before the vote, the position of the Parliamentary Group of GERB and the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, because, as a result of the public statements of colleagues from the DPS, which are the most important part of the July compromise, in fact, the positions of these three main groups of the majority will prejudge whether the initial norm of the compromise has a constitutional majority of 160 votes or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u243	Replices to Mr. Kanev? First line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u244	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kanev, I am sincerely amused by your confession about your relations with the ruling majority and the majority of this constitutional project 2 When you talk about addictions, about fear and things like that, you at the DPS also voted on credit, you and the DPS voted on retirement age, and you vote together, and you're fine, but for the audience you explain how hard it is on your soul. Come on, vote together and stop with the monkey business. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u245	Second line? I can't see, guys. A hole, Mr. Kanev. You're not gonna use the back. To speak, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u246	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Frankly, we are a little surprised because to this day we knew that we were the universal evil, guilty if we voted with the Reformation Bloc, even more guilty if we voted with GERB, even more guilty if we voted with BSP and ABB, and in fact we are invariably voting according to our party political and ideological identity. However, it is now clear that we are the universal solution. I have a request before you stare at the vote of the DPS, which must be removed from the Bulgarian policy by the local authorities, but it is useful to look at ourselves first. That's really helpful. In addition, we have heard a thesis that seems absolutely indisputable and true about the historical compromise that has been reached. This is a classic example of the seemingly properly built ones which, as a result, are wrong because they do not take into account the fundamental fact that the signatures placed under the constitutional project in the quota allocation part were linked to a very important condition. Those who were of the opinion that some of these proposals would prove unconstitutional, that these doubts of these parliamentary groups, if they were overcome by a deliberate interpretation of the Constitutional Court, today the debates would have gone differently. The spirit of the discussions in this Chamber would have been completely different. The Constitutional Court's interpretation does not have which preserves the autonomous right of each parliamentary group to express positions according to the reading of the Constitution. This is the fact that it was silent, silent consciously in order to unfold the thesis that the world is black and white, and those who stand for certain positions, whether unconstitutional or not, because we are bearers of the right cause, of the good, this must be respected, all others must follow the good, because the end justifies the means. If the goal is the celebration of the rule of law, in the name of this objective, if necessary, we will violate the principle of law, we will adopt, if necessary, unconstitutional texts. Excuse me, it's called Bolshevism! Bolshevism is not just left, and we have evidence of that. I'm asking for more responsibility. Today, debates other than trust are also about political responsibility and political dignity. It is worthy to vote in accordance with the restrictions imposed by a Constitution which you have not accepted and have not supported. And just from the position of a party that has not supported the Constitution, precisely because we are more reformers than those who are calling for the Reformers, we have proposed the most revolutionary decision to cancel the shackles of the Grand National Assembly so that we can speak here only with the language of our own political will. This is the proposal I made with my first speech. I am also doing so at the end of the last speech in connection with the debates today. We do not bind the outcome of this vote either to the fate of government or to whether or not the cabinet will be renovated. It's none of our business. We, as a party, have no ambition towards the central government within the framework of the Forty-third National Assembly. Therefore, the only argument with which we will support constitutional changes is the concern for the public interest and the image of Bulgaria in Europe, because this reform is also expected from our Euro-Atlantic partners. We will support everything possible within the framework of the Bulgarian Constitution. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Last sentence, Madam President. I call on you all to think very carefully about the risk that the entire constitutional project will be tainted if neither of the two alternative proposals brings together a majority of 180 votes. If anyone wants to bless the constitutional project, if they want to eliminate efforts and energy for a year, they will split the votes for quota distribution so that none of the proposals does not bring together the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u247	Thank you, Mr. Mestan, the speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u248	We will make our contribution to the constitutional proposal to bring together a majority of 180 votes. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u249	Are there any lines for Mr. Mestan? Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u250	Mr. Mestan, I'll start backwards. There is no reason to accept that if neither alternative proposal receives a constitutional majority, something is blocked. And so far, the number of representatives of judges, prosecutors and investigators in the Supreme Judicial Council has been regulated legislatively, not constitutionally, and so it has been throughout all the years since the adoption of the Constitution so far. That is, the distribution in the already divided Supreme Judicial Council can safely be the product of a legislative act, which naturally means that the votes of the DPS will not be decisive at this time. But it's not what we want. We want you to stay where your signatures are. Second, with regard to the Constitutional Court. We all signed that together we would ask the Constitutional Court for a preliminary ruling, despite the legitimate votes that it would not be allowed. Unfortunately, it wasn't allowed. From now on, whether this distribution, under which we have all signed, is constitutionally appropriate or not, there are only 12 people in the Bulgarian Republic who have the right to judge. And under the Constitution, none of them have the right to vote today. And they are entitled, on the basis of a complaint by MPs and other managed persons, to pronounce a post-factum. Thirdly, we're not trying to draw some kind of black-and-white world. We're a long way from this thing, but it doesn't cancel a simple fact. It is that both in politics and in everyday life people are divided into two types of people who keep their word and those who do not keep their word. The signatures are needed where there's not enough trust. But in this case, of course, not keeping your signature is a lot more than not keeping your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u251	Second line, Mr. Slavov. Today, once again, Mr. Slavov is generous and has taken his turn. Come in for a second line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u252	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Mestan, you're right that a man should look at himself. I'm gonna try to be existential today. [[Laughter]] And I'm going to quote an iconic word. I hope everyone here understands what I'm saying. The word sounds like this: "Lord, MPs have no power, no power. Understand that! I am the one who holds the power and distributes the funding quotas in this country. " - Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u253	Mr. Bayraktarov, I personally didn't understand what that line was about. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u254	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mestan, my line will be brief. Yes, there is no interpretation of the Constitutional Court, but there is a definition. In it very precisely the constitutional judges pointed out that it is good for the MPs to assume their responsibility and to do what the Bulgarian citizens in this Parliament chose them to do. I personally and my colleagues from the Reformation Block are prepared to take this responsibility and to hold on to the initial proposals that we have written and which you have signed. I'd like to offer you something very specific. I hope you understand me correctly. You have quite a high legal culture, and you have lawyers in the group who have long legal experience. I would suggest to you: if this is what you are worried about, that there is no ruling of the Constitutional Court, let us write in the Transitional and Final Provisions a text and postpone, for example, by three or four or six months, if you wish, the entry into force of this provision in particular. Meanwhile, on the promulgated changes to refer to the Constitutional Court. Then you will have a ruling and you will have absolutely no reservations as to whether or not you have supported something which is unconstitutional or not, because before it produces its legal consequences, there will be an act of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u255	It's a hole, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u256	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kanev, yes, because the majority is consolidated, extremely stable in all texts adopted by the Forty-third National Assembly, in all likelihood the amendments to the Law on the Judiciary will not depend on the DPS. If I have to resort to paraphrasing your text, ah, this dream of Mr. Kanev is not to depend on the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.............................................................................. Be so united, love each other, get along within this paradoxical quadruple coalition. I want you no more than you do not need the votes of the DPS either for the flat tax or for the debt or for anything. However, given the heterogeneous nature to the degree of incompatibility in the views of the partners in the ruling coalition, this will, unfortunately, be necessary and the DPS will continue to give its support for national important topics despite your aggressive attitude towards us. This is our political responsibility. As for the one who said he would be existential, trying to iron out the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I learned from his statement that he was willing to look exhilarated, but he resorted to another word. These are words close by sound, but different in importance, Mr. Bayraktarov. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u257	Colleagues, are there any other MPs who wish to participate in the debate on § 4 of the report? Are there any Members of the National Assembly who are outside the Chamber and would like to take an attitude upon entry? The debate is a closed vote. Colleagues, during the debates Mr. Peter Slavov withdrew the unsupported part of his proposal under § 2 by importer. The same was done on behalf of the ABC Parliamentary Group Mr. Tsochev, who withdrew the unsupported part. Colleagues, there's a proposal from Mr. Volen Siderov. It's in one part out of range, but on point. 2 is within the scope of the bill, but the Commission does not support it. In fact, this is a proposal which was made in the Chamber and by Mr. Atanasov identically with his proposal, already in the version of the text of the Commission: in art. 130a, para. 2 to drop t uc 6, namely the competence of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council to manage the real estate of the judiciary. We vote on the proposal of Mr. Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission, but this proposal was made in the Chamber, supported by Mr. Atanasov and Mr. Mikov. We are voting on the motion to drop the item. 6 in para. 6. They voted 198 MPs: 69, 33, abstention 96. The offer is not accepted. Revoting procedure Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u258	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, let us not be influenced by who has signed a proposal or who has done it. Let's get to the point of the proposal. This text, adopted in this way, is in... [[GERB's line.]] I propose a re-vote because the newly rejected proposal in practice creates a contradiction between two norms in the Constitution. The adoption of this text is in absolute contradiction with art. 106 of the same Constitution, where it is stated that the real estate in this country is managed by the Council of Ministers. Do you understand what you're getting?! Please understand what you're voting for.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u259	It's a re-vote. 195 MPs voted: 70, against 21, abstention 104. The offer is not accepted. We are following the report on page 1. 12 is the proposal of Mr. Radan Kanev and a group of MPs for the creation of para. 3 in art. 130b, which the Commission does not support. We are voting on the Commission's unsupported proposal. Vote 197 MPs: 26, against 61, abstention 110. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs for amendment and addition in art. 130a, § 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 216 MPs: 26, against 68, abstention 122. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote that part of the proposal of the MP Georgi Kadiev, which is not supported by the Commission. His offer was partly supported, in one part he withdrew it. We are voting on the unsupported part of the Commission. They voted 196 MPs: 16 against 70, 110 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We move on to § 4 in the Commission's report, in its version. Before the interruption, we adopted a procedural decision on a split vote by paragraphs. I shall directly put to the vote the paragraphs on which no proposals have been made. I shall put to the vote § 4, which shall create new Articles 130a and 130b, and the version of art. 130a, para. The Supreme Judicial Council shall exercise its powers through Plenum, Judgeial and Prosecutor's College. We shall vote on this paragraph in art. 130a (new), on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 235 MPs: for 199, against 34, abstention 2. Alinea 1 in art. 130a accepted. In para. 2 The Plenum shall be composed of all members of the Supreme Judicial Council and, in a sentence second, shall be governed at points by the jurisdiction of the Supreme Judicial Council. Mr. Atanasov's proposal to drop the item. 6 was already voted because it was identical with the proposal of Mr. Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. I'm putting it to the vote. 2 in art. 130a in the version of the Commission report. Vote 233 MPs: 201, against 31, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. It's al. 2 of art. 130a. We're moving on to al. 3. Mr. Slavov proposed that the Parliamentary Tribune instead of the Commission's proposal that the College of Judges be composed of 14 members and that at the end of the sentence, instead of a sixist elected by the National Assembly, be elected by the National Assembly. I put to the vote Mr. Slavov's editorial proposal in para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u260	It's an editorial proposal, yes!?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u261	There is a reason what you are commenting on from the point of view, but since it is similarly reversed in the Commission, I cannot say that this is an editorial proposal. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 220 MPs: 25, against 82, abstention 113. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the editing of para. 3 in art. 130a of § 4 in the Commission report. Vote 227 MPs: 204 against 12, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Mr. Slavov, your proposal in para. 4 depends on the already adopted text of para. 3, which is why you withdraw it, because they can't both be true at the same time. [[National Representative Petar Slavov nodded affirmatively.]] I'm putting it to the vote. 4 in art. 130a in the version of the Commission report. Vote 213 MPs: 204 against 7, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 130a, para. 5, as per the Commission report. Vote 217 MPs: 190 against 27, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I am voting on the whole text 130b, as it does not require a separate vote Vote art. 130b in the version of the Commission. 220 MPs voted: 193, 27, abstentions. The motion is accepted. Minister Hristo Ivanov wants the floor. We're listening, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u262	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, before the vote on this text, I turned to you and said that I think it is a really valuable issue. The vote has clearly shown on this subject what the majority is. In fact, unfortunately - both symbolic and political - we have issued a message that the independence of the court is not sufficiently appreciated. And although today is a day in which quite important steps will be taken in the direction of the rule of law, now this vote has become an important, big step and symbolic, to the doubt that in Bulgaria more and more can be talked about the sovereignty of the Prosecutor General. Therefore, I am very relieved to announce that I will no longer exercise the powers of the Minister of Justice, and today I will take all the necessary steps for my withdrawal. [[Noise and lines. To the left: Bravo! Partial applause.]] Thank you very much for the work we've had together, and I wish you luck! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u263	Mr. Lazarov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u264	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the Members of the National Assembly. Borislav Borisov, Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Volen Siderov, Yavor Notev and Desislav Chukolov: Paragraph 3 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. The current article. Art. 130a becomes art. 130c and the following amendments shall be made to it: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 words for discussion shall be deleted. 2. Point 2 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u265	Hey, guys, any speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Volen Siderov, Yavor Notev and Desislav Chukolov to drop § 3. The Commission does not support this proposal. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. They voted 203 MPs: 14 against 111, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u266	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u267	Procedure only if it relates to how to vote. We're in voting mode. [[Relation from the National Representative Svetlin Tanchev.]] After the vote. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of § 3, which shall become § 5, in the version of the Commission. We are voting § 5 in the version of the Commission. They voted 201 MPs: for 194, against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mr. Tanchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u268	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask for a break on behalf of the BDZ Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u269	How much?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u270	For 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u271	I'm calling an adjournment at 3:20 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u272	Mr. Lazarov, can we continue? Guys, break time's up. I invite all MPs to the House! We're listening, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u273	Mrs. Chairman! Proposal from the MPs Dimitar Delchev, Nastimir Ananiev, Korman Ismailov and a group of MPs: screated § 3a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u274	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u275	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The proposal is to introduce a clear vote. In fact, there are two proposals, one of which is more radical and it says that the Constitution should be recorded instead of the secret vote of the Supreme Judicial Council. The second says that simply the word "secretly" should be dropped so that the legislator can assess whether the vote in the Supreme Judicial Council is open or secret. In fact, this is a progressive proposal. This is a proposal that aims to reveal the dependencies of the Supreme Judicial Council, this is a proposal that aims to give a little more transparency to the work of this so important body that appoints, releases and increases magistrates in the judiciary. With the obvious vote, that is what will actually be achieved. What is worse for us than Austria, Portugal, Norway, the United States of America? I think we're no worse. Therefore, colleagues, I call on you not to fear that there will be civil control, as there is one over the work of the National Assembly, where important decisions are also made, so there is civil control over the work of the judiciary and the highest authority in the judiciary. In fact, this is an addition to this base, this historical compromise, as has become known, and for me this will make a real difference in the work of the Supreme Judicial Council. And with regard to the historical compromise, fellow Members, yes, a discount has been made today from the historical compromise, a discount for which we of the Reformation bloc must look at ourselves and for which we must take an account of how negotiations were conducted to win this historic compromise. I hope that from now on, the text, which will pass by 180 votes, which will become the first step of judicial reform almost a year after the adoption of the judicial strategy, will be at least some small scarce base, because it is indeed one on which to build further judicial reform both through the laws of the judiciary and procedural laws and all other laws that concern the structuring and functioning of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u276	Mr. Delchev, just one explanation. You participate together with other MPs in two proposals that contradict each other. First, you propose that we vote on our Rules of Procedure, that texts be voted on in full for dropping out. First you offer art. 131 to be canceled. This is your first offer. Then, if this text, as it is on the report, collects votes, the entire article will be dropped. 131 and we cannot vote on your second proposal. In another group of MPs you are... the word "secret" to be replaced by "successfully." I understand from your speech, which you have made, that you insist that your proposal be put to the vote first, is replaced by "successfully."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u277	That's right. Just to clarify, not the whole text to be dropped, but just the word secret. In other words, let us first vote on the proposal to replace it with the other proposal if the first proposal does not bring together the necessary majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u278	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u279	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Delchev, it is obvious that your historical compromise has come to an historic failure, as I said just now, and you will continue to deepen this historic failure with your proposals. Why do you want to control the vote in the SJC, and also in the College of the SJC, in the Plenum? Is there anything more democratic and something that guarantees to the most stable degree the free vote of conscience according to the views of the members, besides the secret vote? That's all that's been invented so far. From ancient times until now, the secret vote is what is freest, according to the will of the one exercising the voice. So please: do not suggest to the House that there must be some civil control over the votes of the Supreme Judicial Council. That doesn't make sense!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u280	Second line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Lazarov, please report the other group of proposals under art. 131, since from Mr. Delchev's statement he practically took an opinion on the replacement of the word "secretly" with "successfully" and there is another proposal by Mr. Kanev and a group, which is identical.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u281	Thank you, Madam President. Proposal from the MPs Dimitar Delchev, Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs: screated § 3a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 131 the word "secret" is replaced by "successfully." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Radan Kanev, Ivan Ivanov, Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs: A new paragraph is being created: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 131 the word "secret" is replaced by "successfully." The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u282	The debate continues on how decisions will be taken in the Supreme Judicial Council. So far we have heard Mr. Delchev's proposal to support the secret vote at the moment to be replaced by a clear vote. Mr. Martin Dimitrov wants the floor. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u283	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! A clear vote must be strongly supported because it is an instrument of personal responsibility in the vote. Thus voted the Bulgarian Parliament and any media, every citizen can check how a MP voted. This information is publicly available. The same goes for the Council of Ministers. This principle must also be introduced for the Supreme Judicial Council. There's nothing to hide! In the Supreme Judicial Council there are individuals and each person must stand behind the relevant decision and the respective vote. As for BSP's statement just now, I've been listening to them all day today. They said they were against splitting the plenary into two colleges and then voting for the quotas. They spent all day explaining how they were against this division and finally went and voted for the quotas. This is a brief example of severe political demagogy! You have to be a great demagogue and completely forget yourself, explain all day how there should be no separation of the captivity and finally go to vote for quotas! But I, colleagues, because I have seen everything from you, does not even surprise me! Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote for the obvious vote so that it does not turn out that today will be remembered only by the fact that another honest minister after Veselin Vuchkov [[noise and lines from BSP LB and from the bottom of the hall]] Now two people, two honest people are gone. Don't let it turn out that's the only thing that's gonna be remembered for today. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, support the obvious vote! [[Noise and lines from the bottom of the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u284	Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Mestan wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u285	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! The argument whether to vote clearly or secretly has been for centuries. We of the DPS Parliamentary Group will support the proposal that the constitutional limitation of the Supreme Judicial Council to take its decisions by secret ballot be dismissed. However, we would like to warn that we should not award the over-expected to reform the system by changing the way we vote. There are very few situations where a clear vote creates greater prerequisites for a controlled vote. We have to face it honestly! I understand the circumstances which give rise to the need for such a proposal because, more or less, certain symbolic votes discredited the secret vote. The audience is well aware of these cases. However, if someone puts God in place what hopes that the secret vote will be more responsible, we still have to imagine that certain members of the SJC will raise their hand under the watchful eye and their direct supervisor. It may therefore be more appropriate, although we are also open to supporting a radical option, but it seems more responsible to us that the approach is to abolish the constitutional restriction. Let us foresee in the Law the Supreme Judicial Council to vote clearly and if the practice, negative practice, requires that this be corrected, that there be such an opportunity that we do not resort every time to the need to amend the Constitution itself. We express this thesis perfectly responsible, with the awareness of the inevitable pros and cons of both the secret and the obvious vote. Thirty-six votes from the DPS will support the revision of the constitutional limitation for the Supreme Judicial Council to take its decisions solely in secret. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u286	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Philip Popov was the first to speak. After him, Mr. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u287	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, here we seem to be turning around in the enchanted circle which one is first the egg or the hen? Analogically, this question is whether it is obvious or a secret vote! If we push a line through all the changes that we have voted on to this point and are to be voted on, if you pay attention to the statement, how to say, to the former Minister of Justice, you can see the clear line and a single goal of the Supreme Judicial Council or its two colleges. Firstly, we voted to divide the two colleges in order to make it easier for them to be controlled in a smaller group. We are now introducing a clear vote. It is clear to you all that the reasons for the vote can always be found. But with the obvious vote, and here I agree with Mr. Mestan that it will be carried out under the watchful gaze of their direct supervisor, there will be other dependencies in the judiciary. In fact, passing the open vote on the Supreme Judicial Council, in the colleagues, will in practice lead to much heavier dependencies, accountability, but not public, not accountability to the authorities, but accountability to these dependencies. I think that is why we cannot support such a proposal and will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u288	Any lines to Mr. Popov? Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u289	Mr. Popov, I've been listening carefully. In fact, the main thesis around you is that if the vote is obvious, there will be serious control by direct superiors, unlike the secret vote. That's what I came here to argue. And at the moment there is evidence that the direct superiors know again how to vote, as the House is small, everyone is sitting around a round table and as we can see how our colleagues and the people of the Supreme Judicial Council can be controlled. In practice, this is what we are trying to cure the vote is only for the people outside the Chamber and not for the people in the Chamber. Let's make it clear to the people in the hall and to the people outside the hall! Let civil society control this process.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u290	Mr. Chavdar Georgiev has the floor for speech. Before that, Mr. Popov's hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u291	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going out to say a very short back. I thank my colleague for having essentially supported my thesis in terms of the obvious vote and the dependencies it will provoke.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u292	Now Mr. Georgiev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u293	Madam President, honourable Members! In fact, by arguing about the obvious and the secret, we are arguing whether there is an independent Supreme Judicial Council or not! If you are for the Supreme Judicial Council to be dependent, vote for the obvious! If you are about to have an independent, independent judiciary and its management body independent, vote for the secret vote! There's nothing else I can tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u294	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Anastasov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u295	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Usually the road to hell is always paved with rose flowers and with good wishes. What is being proposed today, it looks very beautiful on the outside, you see, everyone will vote clearly and the whole of Bulgaria will have control over them. This is not because this is the beginning of the end of democracy. Because democracy is with the secret vote that everyone should keep their vote the way he feels inside, in his heart, and not as they control it from the outside and as they will put pressure on him whether 10, whether 100 or 2,000 people, or 5,000 people who have made some kind of petition and imported it. This is dangerous for Bulgaria because it will be the beginning of the end of the secret vote. Tomorrow you will also propose for Parliament to vote openly so that the whole society can see how to vote for the Bulgarian Parliament, how to vote for President. At all, the elections will be obvious. This has been offered real so far. And that would be the beginning. Think seriously. I believe that this House will show understanding to preserve democracy, because many truths have been told here, I will not repeat them, but there is no greater dependence on voting clearly in this council, which should control both judges and prosecutors and the entire judiciary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u296	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Ananiev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u297	Madam President, honourable Members! I strongly support the clear vote, because for me this is one of the good reforms in the Constitution itself, but also related to the statement of the previous colleague, let us not forget that we are a parliamentary republic and Parliament has clearly voted all its decisions. Of course, I exclude the election of an ombudsman, but you know what happened there, so this example is not very appropriate for a secret vote. Let's stick and allow everyone to be able to stand behind their vote and when they vote, to be able to argue why they voted in this way. So the obvious vote is good. Of course, I know what the other side is saying about the obvious vote itself. Maybe some of the arguments have their power, but we have to show that we want everything to be transparent to society. I therefore call on you to support the clear vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u298	Replies to Mr. Ananiev's statement? I won't. You have the floor, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u299	Madam President, honourable Members! After the resignation of Mr. Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov I see no reason to make speeches from the Reformation Block. [[RB lines.]] They let the majority down. They put him on a sled and let him down the hill without a helmet. And they crashed in the most outrageous way in today's debate. The constitutional change that was proposed was ill-considered, even worse organized, and ended in a complete fiasco.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u300	It's not over yet, Mr. Zablyanov, there are texts to be reported and voted out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u301	It's over because the obvious vote is a symbol of the dictatorship on the street. The obvious vote is the anti-pod of democracy. The idea of a clear vote is the symbol of the total collapse of a party's vision, which declared itself democratic in the eyes of the Bulgarian public. Dear colleagues of the Reformation bloc, I have never assumed that you could offer a clear vote in a collective body as an expression of democracy. That's absurd, that's impossible. Mr. Dimitrov, I'm sorry, although you'll probably explain yourself. I would like to stress that the secret vote is a guarantee of the freedom of conscience and of the person. And the fact that the elections in Bulgaria have become an extension of sheets before the public in public gives no reason to introduce it into the Constitution, especially in the administration of the judiciary. Today, on the initiative of a parliamentary group, the Rules of the National Assembly were violated, most likely with good intentions. Someone's already talking about intentions here. But when the National Assembly is not an example in law and order, what can we expect from the other authorities? Of course, political tactics allow one action or another, but they must always be taken into account for the consequences of this, and they will not be late. My fellow Members, I call on you to support the secret vote as a way of taking decisions in the Supreme Judicial Council and as an expression of the democratic functioning of the institutions. Democracy, democratic decisions and democracy of the Bulgarian institutions is not the first time in question. And always from the right hand, which was declared democratic in the beginning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u302	- What's the line? There are no lines. Mr. Dimitrov has a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u303	Madam President, honourable Members, I have been personally invited to respond, so I cannot help but take advantage. This is what we're talking about. I wonder if there is a vote in the Supreme Judicial Council, which is a problem for a member to stand up with his name and explain why he voted in a certain way? There shouldn't be such a vote at all. For every vote in the Supreme Judicial Council, everyone should be able to stand up and say how and why they voted. As in the Bulgarian Parliament, there is no vote for which people cannot ask you: "Why did you take a position?" This is a matter of responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. The Supreme Judicial Council should not be able to take a decision for which a person has voted in a certain way and should not be able to explain it publicly afterwards. Otherwise, by this logic and in Parliament, we have our superiors and we vote before them, but each vote on his conscience, or he should vote on his conscience, and ultimately bear personal responsibility. At the moment, as one colleague told you, the situation is as follows: everyone knows in the Supreme Judicial Council who voted how, only the public does not know. And in the end, it becomes so that there is no public responsibility for the way the individual members vote. It is for this reason that, ladies and gentlemen, a personal vote is the responsibility of every member, and one who does not want to be personally responsible will not go to the Supreme Judicial Council, should not become a member. It should not become a minister, because these posts are held personally responsible and it is clear with each vote what position you have taken. I was wondering: in BSP, do you colleagues secretly make decisions of your captives? Because if it's secret, that's why the job's been going there lately. Thank you for your attention. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u304	Any other MPs wishing to take the floor? I won't. The debate is closed. After the clarification with Mr. Delchev, I put to the vote the proposal made by him, Nastimir Ananiev, Antony Trenchev, Assoc. Dimitar Shishkov and Dimitar Tanev, which is identical with the proposal of Mr. Radan Kanev, Ivan Kirilov Ivanov, Atanas Atanasov, Grozdan Karadzhov and Valentin Pavlov in art. 131 the word "secret" to be replaced by "successfully." [[(Replys from BSP LB:.......................................................................................................]] 200 MPs voted: 46, against 49, abstention 105. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Delchev, Nastimir Ananiev, Korman Ismailov, Borislav Milanov, Radan Kanev, Nayden Zelenogorski, Grozdan Karadzhov, Atanas Atanasov, Antony Trenchev, Boris Stanimirov and Rumen Hristov. 131 is canceled. We are voting on the proposal to drop all art. 131 of the Constitution. Vote 218 MPs: 190 against 27, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u305	Madam President, as a result of the vote, § 6 on the report on changes in art. 131 to acquire other content, namely a new § 6: ........................................................... This Decision
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u306	We just voted that out, Mr. Lazarov. Due to the plenary decision supported by a constitutional, high majority, there is no way to report and vote on the Commission's proposal to amend a member which has just been annulled. It is a question of the Financial Texts that is to carry out the renumbering in the paragraphs of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u307	According to § 4, there is a proposal from the MP Petar Slavov. The Commission does not support the proposal: In § 4 concerning...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u308	Wait a minute, Mr. Slavov is giving a sign. Please come to the stands and state what you're doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u309	Colleagues, we had this conversation earlier about such an editorial proposal and it was not supported. I'm retiring it to save time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u310	Thank you, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u311	Proposal from the MPs Volen Siderov, Yavor Notev and Desislav Chukolov: In § 4 of art. 132a, para. 6 a new sentence second is amended as follows: The Inspector shall carry out checks for the establishment of events undermining the prestige of the judiciary and those relating to the violation of the independence of judges, prosecutors and investigators. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev. The Commission has not examined the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 sentence third and para. 3 of the Rules on the procedure for discussing and adopting the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 3 which is reflected in its systematic place in art. 132a, para. 6, and does not support it under points 2 and 4: "2." Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The inspectorate shall check: 1. the activities of judges, prosecutors and investigators on the application of the law, without prejudice to their independence; 2. the examination and resolution of cases and case files within a reasonable period of time on complaints of delayed justice; 3. compliance with the integrity requirements in the performance of the duties of judges, prosecutors and investigators; 4. the existence of a conflict of interest in the performance of the duties of judges, prosecutors and investigators; 5. the regularity of the property declarations and their compliance with the property held; 6. the manifestations of judges, prosecutors and investigators who undermine the prestige of the judiciary; 7. existence of events related to violation of the independence of judges, prosecutors and investigators. 4. In para. 8 the words of the Supreme Judicial Council are replaced by The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 132a, para. 6 A new sentence is created second: The Inspector shall carry out checks on integrity and conflict of interests of judges, prosecutors and investigators, on their property declarations, and on the establishment of actions affecting the prestige of the judiciary and those relating to violation of the independence of judges, prosecutors and investigators.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u312	The debate is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u313	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! You're basically in art. 132, para. 6, in the same subparagraph in practice, you propose two conflicting and mutually exclusive texts. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 of the Constitution, now the Acting Article. 6, it is clearly and categorically stated that the Inspectorate is checking the activities of the judicial authorities, without prejudice to the independence of judges, prosecutors and so on. Well, by sending the Inspectorate to check judges and prosecutors with regard to their property declarations, with regard to the conflict of interest, how independent will these magistrates, honourable MPs be? Moreover, the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council has two main functions: the first main function is to monitor the timing of cases, the second is on uniform law enforcement. We have already established such administrations... the Court of Auditors, the Committee on Conflict of Interest, the so-called, famous Commission Kushlev or the Committee on the seizure of illegally acquired property. Why do we take away from their competences and assign to one Inspectorate, to a whole other body that does not exist for it? This is done, I repeat, for the sole purpose, and it shows in all the proposals to be mastered, to create a repressive body and to control the judiciary through the Supreme Judicial Council and already individually every single prosecutor, each judge to be under the grave that every moment the inspectors can come to the Supreme Judicial Council and take responsibility for what he was doing, whether he was in conflict of interest, whether his property declaration corresponds to his actual property condition, although there are such already established bodies. We're overflowing some jurisdictions, we're making a mess of things for this purpose, and we're taking over the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u314	Any lines to Mr. Popov? I won't. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Georgiev for speaking? [[Noise and lines.]] You want a line to Mr. Popov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u315	Dear Mr. Popov, honourable Members, Mrs. Chairman! There's nothing to ask questions. It is clear: a judicial inquisition is being established. I've said it before. It's just that colleagues on the right create an organ so that those who don't listen can hit him on the head and never deal with him again. That's it, there's nothing to ask questions!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u316	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u317	Dear Mr. Georgiev! That's what I've been wondering all morning. I've been having some doubts since the minister resigned, but now you've made everything perfectly clear to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u318	Well, clear these things up, you guys! [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any other MPs who would like to take a stand? Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u319	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposals were made by me. I'm not on the right side of the room, Mr. Popov. At the very least, I want to take over the Supreme Judicial Council. It's way out of my league. The only thing I wanted was to strengthen the powers of the Inspectorate. I have always been a supporter of strengthening the powers of the Inspectorate in every institution simply because the institutions in Bulgaria, unfortunately, only work under pressure and the Inspectorate is indeed a tool for pressure on these institutions to work. The proposals I've made are no big deal. The first thing that was rejected since it was not within the scope of the changes was to increase the composition of the Inspectorate and instead of 10 inspectors to be 14. Okay, I agree with the argument that this cannot be voted on at the moment, but in principle these powers, the Inspectorate in this Chamber of 10 cannot perform them, plus the Chief Judicial Inspector. Now we're going to the authorities themselves. Of the seven powers I have proposed, four have actually been adopted by the Commission. There's three left that aren't accepted. Of these three, one thing is important to me: what is not so important is the Inspectorate to check the existence of conflict of interest. I agree, there is a Committee on Conflict of Interest. Maybe she can do this job. So far, nothing has been done in this regard, but maybe.... may be. The other is respect for integrity requirements. Let's say it's some kind of moral standard. There's gotta be another way to check it out. What I really want the Inspectorate to examine is the examination and resolution of cases and case files within a reasonable period of time on a case for delayed justice. If right now... [[BSP LB.]] No, it's not like that now, Mr. Mikov! Now the Inspectorate has only the right to examine the activities of judges, prosecutors and investigators.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u320	Don't engage in direct dialogue with each other!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u321	If you can vote on this second point, that's enough for me. With regard to the fourth point.......................................................................................................... 8 the words of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be replaced by the words of the National Assembly. The current al. 8 sounds like this: The Inspector presents an annual report on his activities to the Supreme Judicial Council. What I want is for him to submit this report to the National Assembly because we are! I want the Inspectorate to have direct contact, direct contact with the National Assembly. If you support this, thank you, otherwise we will rely on him to present it to the Supreme Judicial Council and the Supreme Judicial Council, perhaps he will give it to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u322	- What's the line? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u323	Dear Mr. Kadyev, the reports are here, but no one has proposed to watch them since 2012! And they're sitting and they're growing old! With regard to this idea, I may not know if in the form of a reply, but I would build on it to make some inspectors both to the Council of Ministers and to the National Assembly. And this is the fetus of the idea of the so-called "Corruption Act on the high floors" by Mrs. Kuneva. From here goes this idea and we have an inspector, an MP, an inspector, a minister, everyone to respond personally, to keep an eye on his declarations, to keep an eye on his conflict of interest, to publicly announce them, and so it will be best, most democratic, most transparent.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u324	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Kadyev. You won't use it. Mr. Bayraktarov's procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, I know you have a statement, but they asked for a procedure, possibly in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u325	Madam President, you can see it's being abused. There's some kind of debate going on that's not really what it is. You see colleagues standing next to each other using the stands to tell each other things that they can say from a place that is already disrespectful to the National Assembly, which is why I want to end this debate. Thank you for your attention. [[Noise and lines.]] Don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u326	Please, Mr. Bayraktarov! [[Radio.]] A reverse opinion? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u327	Thank you, Madam President. I'm not gonna make an existential statement. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u328	You don't have a say in this, you don't have a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u329	I'm making a reverse offer. [[Laughs]] There have been recorded MPs for speech these are important issues that we are solving. The inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council is a main body, constitutionally attached and if the colleague, Mr. Bajraktarov, is not existential, to endure a little more.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u330	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 175 MPs: for 82, against 34, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u331	Madam President, colleague Boris Yachev failed to vote, which is why I want a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u332	It's a re-vote. Have they all been able to vote this time? [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 175 MPs: 90, against 38, abstention 47. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines. Partial applause.]] The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. Mr. Petar Slavov's proposal has been withdrawn. I would like to recall the proposal of the gentlemen Volen Siderov, Yavor Notev and Desislav Chukolov. The report states that the Commission does not support the proposal but, in my opinion, it is generally supported, as the Commission has almost identical editorials. I'm just gonna read it to make sure it's a generally supported proposal. The proposal is: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 132, para. 6 to add a new sentence second, which is amended as follows: The Inspector shall carry out checks to establish events undermining the prestige of the judiciary and those relating to the violation of the independence of judges, prosecutors and investigators. This is the proposal that the report says is not supported. The Commission's editing is: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 132a, para. 6 a new sentence is created second: The Inspector shall carry out checks on integrity and conflict of interests of judges, prosecutors and investigators, on their property declarations, and on the establishment of actions affecting the prestige of the judiciary and those relating to violation of the independence of judges, prosecutors and investigators.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u333	In a sense, it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u334	In the sense, it is the same and I therefore say that the Commission's proposal should be that it is generally supported, which is why I will not put it to an independent vote. I put to the vote that part of Mr. Kadiev's proposal, which the Commission does not support. These are the proposals on t. 2 et c. 4. Point 2 et seq. 4 is the unsupported part of Mr. Kadyev's proposal. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. They voted 183 MPs: 17 against 79, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Mikov and Mr. Kirilov, why did you vote against Mr. Kadiev's proposal? [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u335	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am using the case for my first negative vote, and I will also do so on the text of the Commission, for a report by Bajraktarov because he is very smart. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Dear Members of the National Assembly, the essence of the Inspectorate is changing. This is what I was going to say in my unspoken speech, limited by you. When the Inspectorate was established together with the European Commission and the experts of the European Commission, it was intended in no way to violate the independence of judges, prosecutors and investigators. That is why, in the current text, he is checking the activities of the authorities, this is the court, this is the prosecutor, this is the investigator, the court as a collegiate body, which is pronounced by their acts. He cannot delve into the underwear of the acting magistrates, as is now foreseen by this text, to check the conflict of interest, so there are other authorities. Why don't you make an Inspectorate for the conflict of interest of MPs? Why don't you make one for the Council of Ministers? This is ridiculous! It's the most direct way to directly influence it. I am doing this negative vote on Kadiev's proposal because that is how he understands the Inspectorate, an authority which has operational, verifiable functions regarding personnel judges, prosecutors and investigators. The case is pending, the other party sends a signal to the Inspectorate, and the Inspectorate starts checking all these issues of conflict of interest, property declarations, and the magistrate will have to deal with the case independently. This is a gross error at a constitutional level which will have severe consequences and essentially make the Inspector not a body following the temporary examination of cases and the uniform application of the law but a pressure on individual magistrates. Thank you. I'll continue with the next negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u336	Mr. Kirilov, second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u337	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I will be very brief. I voted negatively by my colleague Kadiev's proposals only because they were late and could not be discussed at first reading, no actual debate could take place on them. In the proposals of colleague Kadiev there are two very important issues which are relevant to the Inspectorate and which we should resolve, if not now, in our next legislative activity. The use of the title of the Minister, which has been transferred from the third constitutional change when the Inspectorate was to the Minister, should be cleared and, given that we are increasing the tasks of the Inspectorate, the appropriateness of changing the number of inspectors should also be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u338	Third negative vote? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for § 7 for a change in art. 132a, para. 6 for the creation of a new sentence, which in principle includes the proposal of colleagues Volen Siderov, Yavor Notev and Desislav Chukolov. We are voting on the Commission proposal for § 7. Vote 219 MPs: 189, against 29, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u339	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, it is clear that this constitutional amendment must be examined in the verification and partnership mechanism because the adopted text creates conditions for pressure and direct control over individual magistrates, including on the occasion of dealing with cases, as Mr. Kirilov, was the case with the conflict of interest from another committee, in the same way that this one should be released, that one should be dealt with in pending cases in pending criminal proceedings. That's what you just accepted. It is obvious that here the arguments, when you stop discussions and speeches, will have to be held with the European Commission. Thank you. That is why I voted against!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u340	Mr. Mestan's procedure. [[People from BSP LB want the floor for a negative vote.]] The procedure is given in due course, then I will give opportunities for a second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u341	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, just because there are two other very important votes, given the very difficult agreement reached on the amendments to the Constitution, I ask you to make a call to the Members of the National Assembly and especially those who have declared themselves the edge of constitutional reform, at least to be in the Chamber and to contribute with their votes to the successful conclusion of these debates. Because I see that those who have declared themselves the flagship, the edge of constitutional change, have only melted to 14 people voting on the latest texts. This thinning of the reformist ranks confirms the darkest doubts that they did not aim at a comprehensive reform of the judiciary, but rather very, very close party interests related to a single provision. However, at least from the best man's shame to enter the Chamber, so that we can, with a proper majority, and so far, with more than 190 votes, adopt the remaining texts of the draft amending the Constitution. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u342	Dear Members of Parliament, I invite all of us to be responsible for the burden of our duties relating to the second reading of the Constitution, where a high quorum is needed and in view of the positions of all parliamentary groups so far. Second negative vote, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u343	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I voted against because I do not believe that the judiciary needs an internal repressive body. Why are we creating this inquisition?! According to the current Constitution, the control exercised by the Inspectorate is related to the acts of the respective magistrates. It's a follow-up control. It has to do with whether the procedures have been followed. Now we have done a penkeller that will check everything and everything, which means that in fact ten inspectors will not be able to do the work we are assigning them, they will only perform selection tasks against magistrates who have not listened to their mentor what and how they should solve a separate case and who have strayed from the straight line. I don't want that kind of judiciary! That is why I voted against!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u344	Third negative vote, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u345	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I voted against because the proposal, which has been made, is to be able to directly control members, judges in the judiciary, contrary to the spirit and meaning of the Constitution. With this proposal is essentially the same line that we are listening to from the beginning. Under the beautiful talk of separation of authorities, all sorts of ways are sought to control the independent judiciary. This is about something worse. In addition to the election of the Chief Inspector by the National Assembly, the members of the Inspectorate, the inspectors shall also be designated by the legislative authority. With the powers that we are giving to the Inspectorate today, there is an extremely effective control over the justice process and the judges themselves. It seems to me that somewhere in today's debate, the purpose of this draft for amendments to the Constitution has been lost because what you are doing right now is to build a political control, totalitarian control over the judiciary on the proposal of the first democratic party in the Bulgarian state of DSD reformers and Brothers Sisters, and close the door. And today they created this. I regret the colleagues from GERB, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, who agreed to this game, agreed to spoil the achievements of the 1991 Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u346	Thank you. Mr. Lazarov, on the following texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u347	Dear Madam President, under § 5 of the importer, the Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 5 be rejected: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 133 words are replaced by the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u348	Statements? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 5 by importer. Please vote on the Commission proposal. Vote 208 MPs: 204 against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u349	Paragraph 6 of the importing proposal of the MPs Delchev, Ananiev, Ismailov, Milanov and a group of MPs: In § 6 concerning Art. 150 para. 2 is amended as follows: The Court of Justice, acting as the second or last instance of the case, shall, where it is convinced that the law applicable in the case is contrary to the Constitution, be liable to suspend the case pending before it and submit the matter to the Constitutional Court. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u350	On behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group, we withdraw our proposal......................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u351	Thank you. What does the Commission propose?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u352	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u353	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u354	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! Our proposal is clearly written and I will not dwell too much on it. Each of the courts of the second and last instance may refer to the Constitutional Court so as to increase with another subject who may refer to the court as an extension of the possibility of unconstitutional texts being caught early, easily and declared as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u355	- What's the line? I won't. Any other Members of the National Assembly wishing to take part? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dimitar Delchev and a group of Members of the National Assembly - the Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 211 MPs: 29, against 73, abstention 109. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 6, which becomes § 8. We are voting § 8 on the report. Vote 214 MPs: 212, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u356	Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the substations. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up a division called the "Transitional and Final Provisions' by paragraphs 9, 10 and 11: ..................................................... The National Assembly shall, within three months of the entry into force of this Law, adopt the laws relating to the application of art. 130a and 130b. § 10. The elected members of the Supreme Judicial Council at the date of the entry into force of this law shall complete their term of office. § 11. (1) Within one month of the entry into force of the laws relating to the application of art. 130a and 130b, the Supreme Judicial Council shall distribute the members of the Council elected by the National Assembly to the College of Judges and Prosecutors of the Supreme Judicial Council. (2) In case within the term under para. 1 The Supreme Judicial Council did not distribute the members elected by the National Assembly in the judge's and prosecutor's college, the National Assembly distributed them with a decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-09.u357	Statements? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to establish a division with the name of "Transitional and Final Provisions', together with the nine paragraphs contained in it with numbers 9, 10 and 11 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 212 MPs: 200 against 3, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. [[Applause on the right side of the room.]] All texts are supported by over 180 MPs, which is why the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution was adopted at second reading. Due to the exhaustion of the programme for today's plenary session, I am closing the plenary session. Tomorrow, a regular meeting with a starting time of 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
