ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, according to our Programme for the National Assembly's work for this week: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE TRADE CORRECTION CODE. This is a joint project on two draft laws: the first is the Council of Ministers, the second in time of the MPs Manushev, Valkov and Hristov. With the second reading report, I expect Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Please, on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to be admitted to the Chamber Mr. Valeri Borisov "Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications," and Mr. Zhivko Petrov "Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u3	I put to the vote the proposed admission of guests to the Chamber. They voted 134 MPs: 134, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u4	Name of the act "................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u5	There are no speeches. We vote on the name of the Import Act supported by the Commission. They voted 137 MPs: for 137, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u6	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MPs Plamen Manushev and Pavel Hristov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 1 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u7	Are there any MPs who would like to comment on the texts? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 1 by importer. They voted 132 MPs: for 131, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u8	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Plamen Manushev and Pavel Hristov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 2, which shall become § 1, and shall propose the following version: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 1 shall be added at the end, with the exception of those anchored in the aquatory of the ports of floating docks and floating workshops intended for shipbuilding and/or ship repair.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u9	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 1 in numbering and editing of the Commission on the report. They voted 123 MPs: 122, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u10	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u11	Colleagues, we're voting. 120 MPs voted: 120, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u12	Proposal by the National Representative Petar Petrov under § 4, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 3, and shall propose the following version: .................................................. Article 221a is amended as follows: "Acceptance for passengers under art. 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1177/2010 Art. 221a. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to passengers: Article 1 2 paragraph 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1177/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 on the rights of passengers travelling by sea or inland waterways and amending Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 (OJ L 334/1 of 17 December 2010).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 117'. Art. 2. 2 paragraph 1 of Regulation (EU) No 1177/2010 on the rights and obligations not covered by it and arising from the transport contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u13	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 3 with numbering and in the version of the Commission. 130 MPs voted: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u14	The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of the importer under § 5, which shall become § 4, and shall propose the following wording: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 329 after the word "waters', a comma is placed and the exclusive economic zone is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u15	There are no speeches. We vote § 4. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u16	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u17	We vote. They voted 126 MPs: 126, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u18	The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 360, para. 10 words "Regulation (EU) No 1177/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 on the rights of passengers travelling by sea or inland waterways and amending Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 (OJ L 334/1 of 2010.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 117
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u19	Statements? I won't. We vote § 6. 120 MPs voted: 120, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u20	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u21	We are voting on the two paragraphs - 7 and 8 - by importer supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u22	The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... Paragraph 1b shall be inserted in the Additional Provisions: .................................................................................. The provisions of art. 6b-6i shall apply under the conditions of art. 3 of Council Regulation (EC) No 718/1999 of 29 March 1999 on the capacity policy of Community fleets with a view to promoting inland waterway transport for ships flying a Bulgarian flag carrying cargo on the inland waterways of Member States of the European Union, outside the Danube River and its tributaries to Kelheim.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u23	Statements? I won't. We vote § 9. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u24	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer on the name of the division and proposes the following version: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u25	Anblok, we vote on the name of the division that becomes a Final provision and § 9 with a new numbering............................................................................................... We vote, fellow Members. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u26	The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 10 and proposes to reject it, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u27	Did we vote the new §9? Okay. There is nothing to be put to the vote at the moment, since we have adopted the new § 9 which, by importer, was § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u28	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u29	Moving on, we have nothing to vote on. We've already accepted it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u30	According to § 11 "A proposal from the National Representative Petar Petrov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 11 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u31	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 11. Vote 131 MPs: 128 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, § 10 by importer in practice with reproduced content, we have just accepted it as a closing provision, but since by importer it stands as a paragraph and it is already reflected in our decision in the Additional provision... [[Reference between the rapporteur and the President.]] We don't have an Additional provision in the report, we only have a Final one. [[Reference between the rapporteur and the President.]] The systematic place of § 10 by importer must go to the Additional provisions of the Law, which are not the subject of this report, but are systematically correctly reflected. For the sake of clarity, I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 10 by importer, which is reflected in its systematic place as § 9. Let's vote on that too. They voted 122 MPs: 119, none, abstention 3. The proposal is accepted, and with this, the bill at second reading. Procedure.. Irena Kotseva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u32	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am making a procedural proposal to extend the time limit for written proposals under the General Law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration by five days to 5 July, Wednesday included.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u33	A counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to increase the deadline for proposals between first and second readings under the General Law of the Law on Civil Registration. 125 MPs voted: 124 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Next item in our program: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF DIVERSITY. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The reports from the committees to which this bill has been assigned have been submitted. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u34	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making a procedural proposal based on our Rules of Procedure. Please allow Mr. Kiril Ananiev to enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u35	We are voting on the proposal for admission of Mr. Ananiev to the Chamber. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u36	♪ I can't believe on the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Law on the Protection of Disasters, No 502-01-30, submitted By the Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015 At its meeting held on 13 May 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Disasters, No 502 01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Finance: Faisy Bekir The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Fezi Bekir, who drew the attention of the Commission and highlighted the proposed amendments to the Law on Disaster Protection to assist the state of certain categories of citizens in overcoming property damage caused by disasters by introducing a new type of mechanism to assist those persons who, by their own means, cannot take care of the insurance of their property for the consequences of disasters. The bill provides a mechanism after an adverse disaster event occurs, the state through its authorities...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It will enable the assessment of which persons should be assisted as to whether they could not insure their own assets against the relevant risk because of their social status. The proposed changes will establish a fair working mechanism for allocating funds from the central budget through the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, respectively from the Agency for Social Assistance, to reach people who need disaster assistance. In the subsequent debate took the popular representative Svetoslav Belemezov, who expressed support for the bill. As a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 9 votes for the Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015 supported the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Disasters, No 502 01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015, and proposed that the National Assembly adopt it in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u37	Thank you, General. Atanasov. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Amendment Bill and supplement to the Law on the Protection of Disasters, No 502-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers On 24 April 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting held on 27 May 2015 examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Disasters, No 502-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Galab Donev, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Director of the Department of Finance of the Municipalities. The bill was presented by Mr. Galab Donev "Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy." The proposed changes aim at balancing the commitments and clarifying the powers of all stakeholders to take action on competence after a disaster-related adverse event occurs. The bill provides for the State, through the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers, to carry out an assessment of the extent to which damage or damage to the property of the person who cannot, by his own means, insure his property. The Agency for Social Assistance, through its structures, will assess which persons should be assisted by an individual assessment as to whether the person could not, because of his social and economic status, insure his own property against the relevant risk. The proposed changes refine the powers of all participants in this process and will be further developed in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers. Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Director of the Directorate of Municipal Finance at the Ministry of Finance stressed that the proposed changes introduce a new support mechanism for individuals who, with their own funds, cannot take care of the insurance of their property for the consequences of disasters. The funds will be allocated from the central budget, through the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, respectively the Agency for Social Assistance, and will be allocated to those who need assistance in the event of property damage resulting from disasters. For the granting of the relevant aid, all requirements of the Law on Construction on the territory in respect of the property concerned must be complied with. The aid granted by the State is intended to be up to the amount of the tax assessment of the property concerned. The funds not used for this purpose for the relevant year will be counted for the next year without changing their purpose. It does not change the principle that the insurance of personal property should be voluntary but a positive indirect effect of the proposed changes is to stimulate the conclusion of insurance and the improvement of citizens' insurance culture. The proposed disaster support model will contribute to increasing the role of preventive action related to reducing the risk of property damage to disasters. Mr. Galab Donev presented a proposal to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy......................................................................................... 10 A concept of social polls is to be replaced by a "anckets" to avoid ambiguity in interpretation and not to mix the notion with the surveys carried out by the Social Assistance Agency with regard to determining the other types of aid that it pays to the eligible persons. In the course of the discussion, some of the Members of the National Assembly expressed the thesis that the proposed changes were more precise and included the territorial structures of the Agency for Social Assistance than to propose a qualitatively new mechanism. In this regard, the issue of additional tasks and capacity of the "Social assistance' was raised. Proposals were also made to discuss the possibility of the state insuring the properties of socially weak citizens rather than paying them benefits after the damage of natural disasters already occurred. As a counterthesis, it was argued that State-owned insurance would be unlawful State aid. At the end of the discussion and the vote with results: the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly not to support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Disasters, No 502-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. The report by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government will be presented by Mrs. Kotseva. Here you go, Mrs. Kotseva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u40	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Disasters, No 502-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Director of the Directorate of Municipal Finance at the Ministry of Finance. The proposed changes introduce a new type of support mechanism for persons who, by their own funds, cannot take care of the insurance of their property for the consequences of disasters. The bill provides that after an adverse disaster event occurs, the State, through the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers, will assess the extent of damage or damage to the property of the person who cannot, by his own means, insure his property. The Agency for Social Assistance through its structures will assess which persons should be assisted by an individual assessment of whether the person could not, because of his social and economic status, insure his own property against the relevant risk. The funds from the central budget through the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, respectively the Agency, will reach people who need assistance in disasters. In order to obtain aid, all requirements of the Law on Construction in the Area must be met with regard to the property concerned, since structural changes in certain buildings could lead to much more vulnerability to natural disasters for such properties which do not comply with the requirements of the Law and other applicable to the construction of buildings regulations. The aid provided by the State will be up to the amount of the tax assessment of the property concerned. The funds not used for this purpose for the relevant year will be counted for the next year without changing their purpose. It does not change the principle that the insurance of personal property should be voluntary, but a positive indirect effect of the proposed changes is to stimulate the conclusion of insurance and the improvement of citizens' insurance culture. The proposed disaster support model will contribute to increasing the role of the presentational activity related to the reduction of disaster risk. The proposed changes refine the powers of all participants in this process and will be further developed in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers. During the discussion, some of the MPs who spoke supported in principle the need for changes proposed in the bill. Moreover, it was noted that a large part of the old residential buildings do not meet the requirements of the Law on Construction in the territory, which in turn creates difficulties for their owners in insurance, respectively in the payment of benefits, and with the proposals made they may also be deprived of State support. Proposals were also made to discuss the possibility of the state insuring the property of socially weak citizens rather than paying them benefits. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 8 votes, 3 votes against the Council of Ministers, and 4 votes abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Construction in the Area, No 502-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Kotseva. [[The reporter Irena Kotseva explained to President Kiril Tsochev a mistake in the report.]] Your note is correct, Mrs. Kotseva. Finally, the report contains a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Construction in the Area, No 502-01-32. It should be reflected in the shorthand protocol! The importer's motives are covered by all reports, but Mr. Ananiev, who represents the government, can take part. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! After these three like three drops of water-like opinions of the committees, one asks himself a question: "Is this supposed to be the real attitude towards the proposed amendment of this important law? " I ask myself: how would they welcome and how would they react to the long-awaited amendment of the Law my constituents from Miziya, Krushovica, Nivani, Malorad, Mezdra and a number of other severely damaged settlements? This amendment is met with disapproval and outrage. It does not meet the expectations of people and the promises of politicians, statesmen, commissioners and MPs. However, could it be another Law introduced by the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry, which adopted the whole structure of the Ministry of Interior, which gave it to the Fire Department today, after the complete destruction of the system and functions of the Ministry of Defence in Bulgaria, it is logical to look for it after the rights and privileges were given to someone, who should perform the functions and who should expect help from people? Contrary to the European and global trends for fire brigades to be fully committed to municipal subordination, the exact opposite of centralizing the management of the Fire Department and giving it the responsibility to protect the population in all other types causing disasters took place in Bulgaria. This creates problems that the current government does not want to see and does not want to correct. What does this almost pathetic text say about amending the Law? [[Shows it.]] The first sentence is that people have to take precautions for their property. How exactly can that happen when a four-foot wave comes and takes away your house, housework, cattle and everything you've done over the years? How, exactly? The second moment in this Law delegates functions which until recently have been successfully implemented by the Interdepartmental Commission, whose working and coordinating body has been............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Now, because they are liquidated and minimalized, this is transferred to the Agency for Social Assistance, and correct, because that office that had these functions is no longer available. In the fire department remained an employee of the former Criminal Protection Service and he is some kind of deputy. cav. International Relations Department! What is offered does not satisfy people because we will judge who is poor and how poor he is. Why he has not insured himself! And when his property is gone, he will receive no more than the alleged tax assessment of this property! Here, in this Bill, there is talk of renovating homes and do not think of those hundreds of people who do not have homes at all, fellow MPs! In Mysia, hundreds of people don't have homes, they don't have houses! With the alleged tax assessment and what they'll get if they're judged poor because they haven't insured themselves, they can't even do a henhouse! You know what a book is? For the chickens. These people lived in the kindergarten in Mysia for months! More than 100 people in the same room! Men and women were separated by one curtain because they had nowhere to be accommodated, and there is no prospect of having a home! And this amendment to the Law that they expected and candidates for MPs promised them what they wouldn't promise about how you would go to these people today to campaign for mayor?! Who will go from you? This amendment of the Law is offensive to the injured people! And since we are looking at a law on disaster and disaster protection, I would like to warn another dangerous, destructive trend that has been developing in recent days to bring this system to an end! Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the construction of the civil protection system began with eight rapid response teams. With European funds 32 were built according to their optimal location, according to the fact that disasters can have chemical, biological, radiation and other causes and sources. Therefore, response time is extremely important. That is why 32 were located in the country's territory, I repeat, built with European funds. Especially at the border with Romania and at the border crossings Vidin, Lesovo, Captain Andreevo, Kulata and Gyueshevo from the point of view of national security were distributed such rapid response teams. This is now being liquidated and these people are retrained as firefighters, and in my electoral area, Vratsa, where is the Atomic Power Plant, and where such a rapid response corps is absolutely necessary, the whole area remains without such a rapid response team! Which of the importers of this Law Amendment Bill has thought in a complex way about protecting the population from disasters and accidents? And which one of those who is willing to agree that we are a front country has an idea and responsibility for what are the functions of this unit of national security in, God forbid, the realization of Bulgaria under a foreign interest for a front country?! Which of the importers of this Amendment and Supplement Bill is ready to answer these questions? Ladies and gentlemen, he's so clumsy, he's not cut out for second reading proposals! However, we will make a number of proposals to amend and supplement the Law of Amendment and Supplement itself. For example, we believe that at least one or two accommodation centres should be built in each area for those who are left without any living conditions! This may have lost their destination schools, barracks or other state assets, but the state cannot be prepared for at least 20 30 families to be ready to meet them immediately on the territory of one district. Dozens of families in Mysia continue to live in metal wagons, which are heated up to 50 degrees Celsius! Which of the importers of this bill thinks of these people? Which of the candidates for their votes can explain to them what will add to this bill? Ladies and gentlemen, in order to express our attitude, our parliamentary group will vote strongly against it, and if you accept it, at second reading we commit to making a number of amendments that I doubt will be able to, to the most necessary extent, meet the expectations of people and the challenges that nature and complex technology systems in the country can cause.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u43	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. First line? General Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking a line because I'm surprised at this position. Mr. Bojinov, you mean that you are strongly opposed to the state supporting citizens who for social reasons do not have their own means to eradicate the damage from the disasters. Is that what you mean? Are you absolutely against this because this bill regulates this problem?! The liquidation of disaster damage and enabling the state to assist citizens who, for social reasons, do not have their own resources to liquidate the damage, is recorded in this Bill. With regard to the management of the disaster and accident protection system, next week we will see a new Law on the management of the entire security system in the country. There's a chapter on that. I don't want to worry about who was in power when it was this disaster and what your government did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u45	Thank you, General. Atanasov. Second line? I won't. Mr. Bozhinov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u46	Dear Mr. Atanasov, in the new Law you speak of, there will probably be a chapter, but I'm talking that besides a head, there must be a brain. Secondly, you're saying that it's in this bill, well, it's right now. The new thing is that social services will appreciate it. Otherwise, there's nothing new. This current state does not satisfy the people that the tax assessment of the property in the northwest of Bulgaria is such as I said that it is not a home and the missing house, but a room for animals can not be made. In this Law there is talk of renovation of a house, and I am telling you that life serves cases in which there is no home at all it has disappeared. Therefore, I say that this Law is superficial, this Law does not correspond to what nature creates for people and does not deserve to be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u47	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. The word has the People's Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov, after him "Kornelia Ninova."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Bozhinov, in my speech, I will allow myself to disagree, because the so-called Koppi-Pest, which you have attributed to the three committees, is not true. Firstly, I would like to inform you immediately that the only Commission in which this bill is being examined in substance was the Committee on Labour and Social Policy. That is precisely why the Labour and Social Policy Commission rejected the adoption of this bill. There's a report that's not a copier. The so-called "good intentions" are the Kopi-Pest. However, if you, colleagues, read this Bill carefully and look into its essence, you will understand that it is indeed a bad bill. He doesn't meet people's expectations in any way. No way! What is the aim of the amendment to this Bill? Firstly, new obligations of the Social Assistance Agency are introduced, only pay attention, the Social Assistance Agency does not have the capacity to make these new commitments. She still doesn't have the capacity she's got under the Law. Moreover, the Agency for Social Assistance is being replaced and almost engineering and evaluation functions, which it cannot do at all. You are right, colleague Bozhinov, that in fact in many cases there is virtually nothing to appreciate. Another question is then, if there is something to evaluate, how will you assess which part of the tax assessment you will have to compensate and support? Which part?! The law says to the amount of the tax assessment. Yeah, but what part of the tax assessment? Not to mention the cynicism that through this agency you will have to determine something that she is doing now. It also now determines who is socially weak and who is not socially weak, and by what criteria a person is defined as socially weak and is included in the relevant social aid and social assistance channels. The scarier part is another one through this bill, by changing it, a minister is trying to have political influence through the form of assistance and, notice the cynical moment: when people have become victims of disasters and accidents. We can't accept that anymore. There is no way to accept the possibility of giving a minister the opportunity to pursue this politically subversive goal without having the capacity, without any philosophy, this Bill. That is precisely why, when the relevant institutions were subject to questions in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, of course, they were unable to respond. They couldn't answer in any way! I have nothing to explain to you that under Law, any public, municipal and state property is subject to insurance. The law is clear about both municipal property and state property! I don't see what else to comment on there. We cannot support this bill, as we did in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u49	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. First line? I won't. The word has the people's representative Cornelia Ninova. Here's your speech, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! For me, this Law represents three things: firstly, it is a retreat and a refusal of the government to implement its programme; secondly, it is a mockery of the people who have suffered a disaster or, God forbid, in the future suffer and, thirdly, this Law is a source of corruption. I will now develop these three with the following arguments before you. Refusal and retreat from implementation of the Programme. Colleagues, all the parties involved in this government, in the majority you have signed a General Governance Programme. In it, in Chapter Sixteen, Preventions and Control of the Risks of Disasters and Incidents, under task number one you have recorded: "Creating a national pool for financing preventive activities and removing the consequences of disasters. On 4 February, the Minister of Finance said: "We are ready with the Law on the creation of a disaster pool, which will pay compensation to victims of disasters. It's only been 18 weeks since. There's no such law and you probably won't. That is why I say that you do not fulfill your promises on this topic and your own program, which you have signed all those involved in this governance. Second of all, why do I feel that this is an insult to people who have suffered from disasters? Dear Mr. Atanasov, under the current Law all people who have suffered from disasters can receive compensation up to the price of the property tax assessment. It is now. With what you propose, you reduce the number of people who can now receive compensation by saying: not all who have suffered, but only those who have been able to insure their properties, but have not done so. That is, you reduce the people who will receive benefits from all of you, so don't talk to me about it: The State takes care of those who suffer. On the contrary, you cut off most of the victims because, you see, they probably should have insured their property, but they didn't. And three: why do I think it's a source of corruption? Because you give one body a subjective, individual assessment of who to give compensation to. At least if you had done it more convoluted, and in your motives you wrote it very foolishly, excuse me, colleagues, I will read you the sentence:...................... By what criteria will the Agency judge him? There aren't any! By individual assessment, the guy from the Agency will say: you could have insured yourself, you didn't! What are the criteria for minimum wage, social assistance, socially weak? There are no criteria! Look at your motives! At least you could have wrapped it there with something more meaningful, but you said it there, too. That is why I say: some will benefit from benefits, because someone will be arranged at the Agency to obtain such judgment, others will lose. Another way to reduce the number of people you help. And one last thing. At least in the motives of writing down a noble goal, as you promise in many speeches, I will not read: The goal is to help people. In the motives of the Law, fellow Members, you have written the following insanity: But it says here the presentation work. You introduce a law that doesn't implement your programme, you reduce the number of people who can still get help to save money, of course, you dress it up in the insane form of individual judgment of one person on the ground and with all this, the goals of increasing the role of... the presentational activity, whatever that means. If any of the importers can come out and explain this to us. But in general, for a general assessment of the bill... Of course, after what I'm telling you, we won't support it, but what we're doing is insanity, running away from the government's responsibility, running away from taking care of the injured people, messing with them and telling them: the state will no longer take care of you, take the risk, insure yourself! Those who can't survive as well as they can! We will not support this madness, and between first and second readings we will submit meaningful proposals on this subject. Thank you. I'm asking for an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u51	Yes, extend the time of BSP left Bulgaria. Are there lines? The word is the Deputy Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u52	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Several groups of questions have been raised by the MPs, which I would like to answer. First of all, it was said that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Disasters took away the functions of the Interdepartmental Commission on Disasters and Accidents. I would like to assure you that the Interdepartmental Commission on Disasters and Accidents will continue to perform its functions at both central and municipal level. The municipal committees will do what they have done so far. They will then present the information to the Interdepartmental Committee on Disasters and Accidents. That is, we are not changing any functions of the Commission and we are not providing any engineering functions to the Social Assistance Agency. The second issue that has been raised is the capacity of the Agency for Social Assistance. In order for the government to adopt such a bill, you must be convinced that we have carried out this review of the Agency's capacity, it has its legal and regulatory framework to assess the social status of every Bulgarian citizen and, depending on this social status, it receives certain rules under the current Social Assistance Act. Based on these principles, which the Agency for Social Assistance is currently working on, in assessing the social status of Bulgarian citizens, it will make such a social survey. Therefore, Mrs. Ninova, there is no subjective approach. All these principle rules are laid down in the current regulation. They just need to determine whether these Bulgarian citizens meet these requirements or not. They will not engage in damage assessment and on the basis of what subjective view of the employee or public servant X or U to give consent to who is to be assisted and who is not to be assisted. What part of the tax assessment? Of course, this part of the tax assessment, which corresponds to the amount of damage determined by the local committee and confirmed by the Interdepartmental Commission for Disasters and Accidents. If the amount of the damage is less than the tax assessment, the person concerned will receive the part of the tax assessment corresponding to the damage. If the damage is greater than the amount of the tax assessment, the maximum amount it can obtain is, of course, the tax assessment. With regard to the disaster console, Mrs. Ninova, as far as I know, Minister Goranov has spoken to you, even I think he has officially responded from the stands. We have no claim for completeness of the Bill. Of course, there will be debates today, there will be time between first and second votes. As I understand it, he has invited you to such a conversation and to make such suggestions. I hope that this parliamentary procedure will lead to a better solution. Our idea, however, is to actually protect the socially weak, who do not have the capacity to insure their property and still have to take some conditions so that they can continue to exist in relatively normal living conditions. We hold very much, and through this bill it is confirmed to increase the responsibilities of all the countries involved in this process... first of all citizens, municipalities and, of course, the state. The responsibility of citizens in respect of their property, property is inviolable, it is personal and bears, apart from rights, natural and responsibilities. We cannot oblige all citizens and we do not believe that this is the right position of compulsory insurance of our property. So with this Bill, the state takes the first step in protecting people who do not have the opportunity to recover their damage from disasters and accidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. The word is the People's Representative Dora Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u54	I want a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u55	There is no personal explanation, there is no such procedure of the Deputy Minister. Maybe later on in the manner of keeping or replicating. There's no way!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u56	Parliament rules also apply to all speakers, not only MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u57	I can't give you the floor. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I regret my esteemed Mr. Ananiev for having to lawyer up this bill. I will say a few things that the government would like with a bill to regulate how to do social assistance. But it is a fact, and I join what Mrs. Nino and Mr. Bozhino shared that we are shortening and reducing people as much as possible and limiting them in their social assistance. By the very motives, fellow Members, those who supported the government, as it belongs to the government. What new concept? First it says: a proposal for a new concept of state support. A new concept of citizens of Bulgaria, know that you are receiving less support. Two. A new type of mechanism, what new type of mechanism? And so far, this mechanism has acted as possibilities and as regulations. Three. Something I highly disagree with. The aid granted will be at the rate of the tax assessment. The tax assessment shall be determined in the settlements according to the classificationr, which shall be determined by the Ministry of Finance. And now, let's say, from Smolyan Municipality, most of the 86 settlements fall into category 7 and 8. The tax valuation is from 5 to 8,000. lv. I'm sure you know how they look forward to the insurance companies doing insurance and taking damage. When you get knocked down in front of your house, or you destroy property, and you're valued at a tax valuation of 5, 6, 7,000. BGN, colleagues, what are we going to do to help these people? Moreover, definitely false, there will be an incentive for local authorities to make sure that tax assessments are not low. Local authorities have no right to do anything outside the classification. Only in the area of the big city can the zones be defined when the municipal council has competence. So those who have written the Bill have misled the MPs, the people's representation at the moment. Therefore, colleagues, I would like to address you, let us reject this bill today and adopt a next decision. Indeed, the Council of Ministers, if it is responsible for the social problems of people who are in distress, to give a real and new concept, and a new mechanism and instrument, otherwise everything is palatial. So far, this has happened. So what do we say now? Even I'm worried about what's written in the motives. Does this mean we're making an announcement that we're going to increase local taxes and fees? Because when we increase the tax assessment, does that mean a sign that somewhere a new classificationist is being prepared, on the basis of which in the settlements we increase the tax assessments and that means that these people in the populated, small remote villages where we work on one or two people, we have nothing to give them other than high taxes and fees? Read the motives carefully! I know it's nice of you to have the government, and I know you want to support the bill, but here, with a clear and responsible conscience, reject this bill. He gives some order, but he gives only one order for the officials to justify how to account for funds. It does not support the people and is currently harmful to the image of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u59	Any lines to Mrs. Yankova? I won't. In the manner of conduct, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u60	Madam President, it was not you, but I think the Rules have been violated by not being given the word for personal explanation, twice mentioning my name, arguing that it was done by the Deputy Minister. I think the Rules do not distinguish between MPs or deputy ministers, but when you hear your name from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u61	You have the opportunity to make a personal explanation right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u62	Please allow me, through this procedure, to state my position.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u63	The procedure will be a personal explanation, that's how it's written on the computer. We're listening to your personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u64	Thank you for understanding. My answer is to Mr. Ananiev because of him this interpretation was also made. Mr. Ananiev, you say that I am wrong to claim that it is given to a subjective, individual assessment of the Agency to say who should receive compensation. That's not my subjective statement. I read the motives. I quote to you the reasons that are probably written by the Ministry, and it says here: by individual assessment which persons should be supported because because of their social and economic status they could not insure their property. You yourself have said that this is done by individual assessment of the representative of the Agency. Secondly, you say that the topic of creating a crash pool is open, that Minister Goranov answered me and even invited me to talk. So this tone I'm sorry, I have a personal respect for you, but I call hypocrisy. Because Mr. Goranov here said, "We're not going to do a crash check, we're going to give it up because we thought it wasn't working." This is what I define as a refusal to implement the Programme, as I also read you a quote from the Programme of the Government, writes: The number one disaster tasker is the creation of a crash pool. You're giving this up. What should I call it, besides refusing to implement your own program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u65	Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. I invite the Members of the House to vote. I put to the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Disasters. 125 MPs voted: 90, against 25, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Negative vote? [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] Did you make your point, Mr. Popov? No. Here's a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u66	Thank you, Madam President. In a nutshell, literally in one sentence, but it is actually the sence of this Bill. I voted against it because it is seen in this way how the state abandons people who are in such distress situations, how the state does not take the necessary care, which is also its obligation under the Constitution to care for such people, to assist them and where there are disasters, to develop infrastructure, to develop social care for such people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u67	Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u68	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose moving to the agenda: after this point, let's discuss this. 10 of the Weekly Program. I argue that this proposal by the fact that, in particular, 10 in the State Property Act, which is at second reading, the amendment is only in one provision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u69	You suggested t. 10 "The Law of the Commercial Register. Say the name of the law you suggest we watch.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u70	I specify, Madam President, no matter what point it is: it is about the Bill for Supplement to the State Property Act, with the importer of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u71	Got it. A counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal now to start with the second vote of the Bill supplementing the State Property Act. They voted 118 MPs: 112, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW ON STATE OWNITY. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u72	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll spare even the admission procedure. I approach the Report on the Draft Law for Supplement to the State Property Act, No 502-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2015. The Law on State Property is amended as follows: "The Law on State Property, the Law on State Property, the Law on State Property, the Law on State Property, the Law on The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u73	We vote on the name of the Import Act supported by the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 118, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u74	It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for paragraph only: I'm the only one. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57a is created. 4 and 5. The rules laid down in para. 1 and 2 for the selection of a private partner shall not apply where state-owned enterprises and commercial companies with more than 50 per cent of State participation in capital participate in commercial companies, conclude joint operations contracts or participate in civil companies in cases: - where this is for the purpose of participating in a procurement procedure, another procedure for selecting a contractor for service, works or supply or for the performance of a contract or other service, supply or works; - participation in companies receiving funding from the European Union where the conclusion of an agreement is a condition of the financing institution. (5) Contracts for joint activities under para. 4 companies under para. are also concluded. 4 shall be established with a period of time until the objective is met or until the termination of the contract for the award of the service, works or supply concerned is terminated and the public partner shall not be entitled to participate in a non-cash contribution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u75	There's probably an extra one here because the text doesn't sound good. ............................................... 4 companies are also active, but companies cannot be involved. The final texts will have a job here. Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote a single paragraph in the version of the Commission's report. Voted 118 MPs: 108, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: FIRST VOICE OF LAWPROECT FOR CLOSING THE NATIONAL SETTLEMENT OF THE ANIMAL. Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Mr. Rumen Hristov. I expect a summary of the report, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u76	♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a bill for the closure of the National Grain Office, No 502-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers to the 4 June 2015 The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 10 June 2015, discussing a Bill on the closure of the National Grain Service, No 502-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2015. In the work of the committee took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva Minister, Georgi Stoyanov Secretary General, Magdalena Dakova Director of the Directorate of Administrative and Legal Service and Desislava Stoyanova Director of the Directorate of Financial Management. Representatives of branch organizations were also present. The bill was presented by Minister Taneva, who pointed out that the bill is part of the concept of administrative reform of the ministry, which envisions the regional units implementing at regional level the policies carried out by the ministry. The bill makes the following more important changes: The National Grain Service is shut down as a specialized administrative structure to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The Transitional and Final Provisions regulate its liquidation and repeal the law on conservation and trade in grain. The Central Laboratory for the classification of grain, cereals and feed with all its property and archive is planned to switch to the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, and the agency will have to control the quality of the grain. The respective amendments to the Law on the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency are being made. Other assets, liabilities, archives, rights and obligations as well as data from the registers of the closed office shall be transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The employment and service relations with the employees are arranged. The suspension of the licences issued in public grain warehouses, certificates for registration of grain stores and grain traders is envisaged. Those licensed as public grain warehouses will be returned to the unaltered bank guarantees provided by them. For the storage records for the grain deposit issued by the public grain warehouses, the Commercial Law will apply. The other documents will remain valid until the expiry of the period for which they have been issued. The procedures for licensing, registration and issue of documents initiated shall be terminated and the fees paid and documents submitted shall be returned to the persons concerned. Unfinished administrative criminal proceedings shall also be terminated. The liquidation of the guarantee fund shall also be proposed in accordance with a decree of the Council of Ministers. The Law on the Implementation of the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union establishes a new section Owners and users of grain storage sites should submit declarations on the location and capacity of sites, as well as on the amount of grain available, in the respective area-by-regions............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of these data, the Regional Directorates will conduct and store databases for grain storage sites in the area and for those who manage them, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for the whole country. Public warehouses for grain, grain stores and other grain storage sites that are already licensed or registered will be registered in a professional capacity. Farmers will also have to submit a declaration on the quantity of grain produced and available, including the quantities of rice harp and rice stocks. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food will annually conduct a representative classification of the harvested crop of wheat, barley, sunflower, maize and rice. The powers of the staff of the Regional........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The relevant sanctions for offenders shall be introduced. The Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks repealed the provision replacing the obligation of the National Grain Service to exercise control over the quality and stored grain. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria spoke strongly against the closure of the office and the annulment of the law, as this will lead to unpredictable consequences and will put the country's cereal balance at risk. According to them, with the cancellation of the licensing regime of public grain warehouses and the registration of grain stores, farmers giving storage the grain produced will be faced with a serious problem due to the lack of a mechanism to control the way of storage, the quantity available and the movement of the grain. They also opposed the closure of the guarantee fund. They noted that the order proposed to collect and report the information does not guarantee its reliability and regularity. They also voiced concern that speculation and fraud would be possible. In response to the objections expressed, Minister Taneva stressed that the National Grain Service does not perform the functions of a regulator but only collects and provides the necessary information. Regarding the fear expressed that tax fraud will resume, Minister Taneva recalled that the only effective mechanism to combat them is the application of VAT in the cereals trade and that the Ministry has already requested the continuation of the derogation by another year. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms stated that they would refrain from voting on the Law, given the lack of sufficient capacity in the Regional............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Members of the Parliamentary Groups of the Political Party GERB, the Reformation Bloc and the ABB have assessed the proposed optimization of administrative structures as good and timely. They indicated that the proposed changes would ease the administrative burden and help create a more favourable business environment and would therefore support the bill. Representatives of industry organisations dealing with grain trade, storage and processing supported the bill. After the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 11 votes...................... 3 votes against................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u77	Thank you, Mr. Christov, for the resume. [[Radio.]] On behalf of the applicant, there is no representative. The debate is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to submit an application. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, the bill was tabled by the Council of Ministers. It defines the structure of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is why I consider it reasonable to invite the Minister of Agriculture Mrs. Taneva to the Chamber. Respectfully, if she is unable to come for the review of the Bill, at least some of the Deputy Ministers of Agriculture will be invited, Mr. Kostov, Mr. Grudev or Mr. Dimitrov. That's my procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u79	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Please invite Minister Taneva, she has been to the Commission, she has taken attitude in the debate, but there is no obstacle, let her command now. Mrs. Bachvarova wants to speak. You have the floor, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u80	Madam President, honourable Members! We are discussing an extremely important bill tabled by the Council of Ministers, which highlights several times that something is being liquidated, and the National Grain Service is being liquidated, and the law on conservation and trade in grain is also completely abolished. I must tell you that the motives of the importers are extremely untenable, contradictory. Including in the report proposed by the Commission and read earlier, there are many errors related to the debate itself, which was also held in the Commission. What importers believe is that the time for regulating the storage and trade in grain does not correspond to the liberal regime compared to the other agricultural products found on the Bulgarian market. Most likely this is about a complete misunderstanding of the importance for each country for the trade and storage of grain and its control. It is important to know that this regulation and this control is necessary because, firstly, grain prices determine the prices of all food products. I didn't find this, it's written in all the textbooks related to the trade and regulation of the food market. [[GERB's line.]] If you need to speak, it's good to do it after me. Secondly, it is important, because even with the slightest deficit of grain in time, including under artificially created conditions that have occurred over the past 25 years, the prices of all food commodities have jumped in a very short time and provide a spiral of inflation that we have also seen in these 25 years. It is important because production is once a year, and 12 months this grain must be stored and available to the country, respectively, in order to ensure the food balance. It is important because a large part of farmers do not have a warehouse base, which means that they provide this grain to a deposit and someone has to ensure to these farmers that what they have provided as quantity and quality will be stored and they will have it at a time when they are most comfortable to sell it according to the market situation. Storage contracts must ensure that manufacturers are protected. The fact that our country is a member of the European Union, as is noted several times in the motives, does not protect us from crises. Most often, notice, all crises during these 25 years occur during a time when in Europe, when there is a crisis in the Black Sea basin, a crisis caused by adverse climatic conditions. Bulgaria then faces a risk because an extremely large resource of 1.5 million tonnes of grain can be exported in 20 days. During this time, the state will observe, but every three months. Indeed, if you have been following the cereals market since 1990, all three crises that have happened have occurred at a time when there was a deficit in Europe and in the Black Sea basin, which determines the price levels for Bulgarian food products as well. In all countries of the European Union, such a regulation exists not for production, but for storage and trade in grain. In Germany, there is a Food Insurance Act, which is applied to the tax office. In Austria there is a Law for registration and control of the participants in the market with grain from the field to the market. Such a law has existed in France since 1960. A little information on how the warehouse is organized in Bulgaria. According to the current law, there is a three-step system of storage capacity which is controlled by the public warehouses, which are respectively the most controlled because they provide records against which banks can obtain loans as collateral for grain storage and other grain storage sites. The warehouses in the country are 2,600, but note that half of them are not for grain producers, but for owners who rent them out to those who need them. Potential farmers without warehouses are 52 thousand in number. In the absence of any control regarding the preservation of grain, the risk of loss, disappearance, deterioration of quality and preservation jumps immensely much. The rules of the law that have been in force so far have protected the landlords. In the absence of legal order and control conditions are created for fraud, contradictions, realization of the grain. Perhaps this is the whole of the grain and is immediately bought at the lowest possible prices. This is usually the market logic that prices are the lowest when harvesting. Thanks to the fact that since 1998 there has been a law and structures to control the process, the buyers in Bulgaria have almost disappeared. I'm not saying they disappeared completely, but they weren't leading the grain market anyway. The appearance of a gray sector must also be reported. A change in the Law on Common Market Organisation is proposed to take over by signing some of the functions that have been performed so far by the Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the laboratory activity, which includes five sites or five laboratories, to move on to the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. Certificates will be issued, but what they will contain absolutely no one knows. They're wishful thinking. Traders have to submit every three months, a month's information on what grain they have, and employees of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food may at some point decide to go to control. That is, this wishing regime will not give absolutely any information to the Ministry. In fact, the Ministry of Agriculture will only monitor what will happen without any opportunity to correct these actions of traders and keepers who do not protect the interests of the grain owners. The reasons of the importer are noted that business is extremely difficult and is faced with unnecessary administrative obstacles and state regulation. This finding is extremely false. National grain service or any service to the Ministry of Agriculture is not involved in the market. It does and performs only control functions. I don't know if control functions are prohibited by any law. The grain service neither tells to whom to sell, nor at what prices, nor in what way. However, it controls what is respectively the subject of storage; what is the subject of trade and provides information about the movement of stocks on a regular basis It was just said that branch organizations admired the law. Excuse me, there was a branch organisation in the Commission that has 25 mills, even it is not updated as an entity at the moment. [[GERB lines.]] Is this the business?! I think that such manipulation creates the feeling that business is about the control that the state must carry out in this extremely important sector to remain at the back. Perhaps when branch organizations are invited, they should be really representative. Out of 300 mills in this organization there are only 26. Perhaps you should also know the composition of the Grain Advisory Board, in which there are business representatives, traders and keepers. The exporters were invited to the Advisory Board on Grains. I also believe that it is not true to find that business is difficult and that the administrative burden must be reduced. Without arguing who will perform the functions of the grain office, whether anyone else, but these functions must be performed. Our problem is that we remove or completely reject the law on conservation and trade in grain. This is the problem for the country, a problem that we think will create chaos in the cereals market and the inability to deal with crises. If we go back to the National grain service, I would like to present some facts relating to European regulations adopted in 2007, with the aim of reducing the administrative burden for the business by 25 percent. This should have happened by the end of 2012. The European Commission invited all Member States to make an appropriate revision of their laws that make business difficult. During the review of the legislation, the Law on conservation and trade in grain was included in the monitoring of the European Commission. An audit was carried out. He concluded with a proposal for nine measures aimed at correcting the law on the conservation and trade of grain and respectively the functions of the National grain service. The monitoring showed that the legislation was fully in line with European requirements, but the requirement was to submit information electronically. The collection of data from other countries, instead of being carried out by business, is carried out precisely on this line. The legislation is therefore fully in line with the European legislation and there are no particular obstacles to implementing it if we rely precisely on the harmonisation of this legislation. Another question is the fund of guarantee disappears. It was created to support or to assist the depositors of grain, because they have no guarantee that what they invest will receive it. The guarantee fund was created for this. Another question is how these 4 million will be distributed, which is 4 million, and since 1998 they have not moved, as part of the investors or those who participated in the Guarantee Fund no longer exist. Another motive is the reverse charge of VAT. Excuse me, how are you going to do this back VAT charge, which is until the end of the year, provided that until now, and always need control of the grain. The gray sector in the cereals sector is the largest. In our view, this Law creates preconditions for chaos and problems for the state. There is no system through which the state reacts. Believe me, I've been a participant for 25 years and an observer in the cereal market. The annulment of the Law created prerequisites, as in 2008 and 2011. In 2011 you had a mini-sensory crisis because of the adverse conditions, in 2008. In view of the adverse weather conditions, this was a high-cost crisis at the time. The grain prices were 2.5 to three times higher than what they were in the coming years. This hit at the expense of Bulgarian consumers and also producers. We will strongly vote against this bill. I don't see any interest from my colleagues here. [[GERB lines]] You can see the desire to snap the law in haste. We will propose texts by which we will want to create an opportunity to make the market as it corresponds to the interests of farmers and the Bulgarian consumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I'm putting to the first vote a bill to close the National Grains Service. Vote 94 MPs: 68 against 15, abstentioned 11. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, rest until 11:00, then we will continue with Parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u82	Honourable Members, the sitting continues with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 19 June to 25 June 2015: There has been a question by the MPs Willi Lilkov, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, concerning the policy of the Ministry of Finance regarding the determination of the legal interest, the removal of its current sentimental nature and the possibility of differentiation of the amount of legal interest for the delay of individuals and traders. Answers should be made in the plenary sitting on 3 July 2015. A question was received from the MP Yavor Haytov to Hristo Ivanov, Minister of Justice, on the policy of development and reform of military justice in the Republic of Bulgaria. Answers should be made in the plenary sitting on 3 July 2015. A question was received from the MP Slavi Binev to Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, concerning the policy of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications for dealing with corruption practices. Answers should be made in the plenary sitting on 3 July 2015. Written answers to service: - from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov; - from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Milen Mihov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the MPs Boris Yachev, Dimitar Bajraktarov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Boris Stanimirov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Radan Kanev and a group of MPs; - from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the National Representative Stefani Mihailova; - from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - from the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev to a question from the National Representative Borislav Iglev; - from the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev to a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev; - by the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - from the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov; - from the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. Those were the written answers. First in today's parliamentary control will respond to Krasen Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sports, who will answer a question raised by the National Representative Yavor Notev, about the capital colodum. Here you go, Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the House, Dear Minister! I have asked a question concerning the fate and state of the city's Colorado. We are talking about a facility that is unique to the millionth capital city, whose condition raises concern with the prospect that it will follow the fate of neighbouring sports facilities known to the inhabitants of the capital. I'm referring to the playground of Yunak, later the stadium of Druzhba, the famous discotheque of Disco, and I'm referring to the playground of children's cycling, which is now a base of the car dealership of Capitolia and serves as a centre of quite another activity that has nothing to do with its original purpose. In any case, it is not desirable that the fate of this near the hearts and the thought of the Sofian facility should follow the mentioned objects. My question is this. Sofia's colodmus - Serdika -- located in Borisova Garden -- is intended to serve Bulgarian cycling in the years as the main basis for the development of this sport. Currently, the sports facility is operated by the National Sports Base (National Sports Base), with the principal of the Ministry, which you manage, i.e. the sports facility is exclusive state property. His condition at the moment shows that he is not being cared for in good condition. However, the racetrack is used for sports and training activities. For about a year the Bulgarian Cycling Union has been deprived of access to the facility. A month ago, sports clubs were also deprived of access and members of BCCs, engaged in children's-youth cycling. For these actions, the National Sports Base (EAD) has given no explanation to anyone. By the way, I am known by my constituents who referred me to this question. [[the President signals that time has run out]] that they have received advice the activities of children's teams to be held in the parking lot in front of the Arena Armeec. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what is the opinion of the Ministry of Youth and Sports on the use for the purpose of this facility?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u84	To answer, Mr. Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Notev, the collodmus of Serdika is located in the town of Sofia, the park of Borisova, next to the football stadium of the Bulgarian Army. The complex contains an open runway, open stands, sports fields with artificial coverage and six massive buildings on one floor, which are used for offices, locker rooms, which sets out a functional sports complex. The subject has the status of sports activity. In the period 2007 - 2014 part of the site was rented to "Sports equipment and systems" Ltd., namely tennis court, outdoor sports playground and coffee room. The rest of the site is dedicated to the Bulgarian cyclist union. The main contract of 23 September 2008 with the Bulgarian Cycling Union was terminated in May 2014, due to financial obligations of 73 thousand. £800. After a meeting with the management of the Bulgarian Bicycling Union, a request was lodged at the National Sports Base in February 2015 for an agreement to cancel liabilities. The contract with the Sports Facilities and Systems (Sports and Systems) was terminated in May 2015, due to financial commitments of 32 thousand. BGN 187. Date of UN designation: 1 January 2015. The National Sports Base took action to force the release of the property from the illegally using tenants. In order to meet the requirements of the regulations in force in the operation of buildings and facilities and to meet the conditions for fire safety, hygiene, health and life protection of people and environmental protection, the Sofia Colorado needs a major repair and reconstruction. In this regard, the National Sports Base (National Sports Base) has developed a long-term investment programme for reconstruction and modernisation of all sports facilities and facilities. Sofia's colodum is part of this programme in 2016. Currently, the National Sports Base (National Sports Base) has prepared an idea project that will give approximate values of the necessary investments. The ultimate goal is the renewal and reconstruction of the track and the entire sports infrastructure to turn the site into an attractive center for professional athletes, children and all citizens who love cycling. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u86	Mr. Notev's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u87	Mr. Minister, the guidelines that your response to future intentions contains are unconditionally correct. However, it is the issue of today's condition of this facility, only in the millionth of Sofia. Do we still have time to wait for your initiative and the opportunities for this facility to benefit from the appropriate purpose? It is about a sport that is no longer just a sport, a means of education, not only a means of transport, ecology, but also a culture, of course, nowadays, increasingly imposing and expanding its base and supporters. It does not seem a good idea to wait for the development of administrative procedures in the coming years and also to collect or provide money to bring the facility into a position to be used for its intended purpose. We have the relevant ideas on how cycling can be used for the needs of patriotic education, in physical culture. I am talking about the Tour of Bulgaria, which has been terminated and cancelled only in military time and in 2014. We demand your initiative on the use of this sport's opportunities for introducing all these values into the young generation, and not only to the young generation, but also to all cyclist fans as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u88	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u89	Dear Mr. Notev, I am ready to discuss with you all the ideas that the Party has for the development of cycling. The cycling tour of Bulgaria is financed by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and for Kolothum to be infinitely clear, it is currently dangerous to practice sports. We are doing an ideal project that will be financed in 2016. There are only six months until then, so we are doing as quickly as possible a project to be implemented so that this sports facility can be restored, which is unique and the only place where this sport can be practiced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u90	Thank you, Minister Kralev, for your participation in this parliamentary control. We are now moving on to the questions addressed to the Minister of Defense Mr. Nikolai Nenchev. The first will be the people's representative Atanas Zafirov on established illegal practices at the Military Medical Academy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u91	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, welcome from Brussels! I hope you bring us good news. A lot of questions have come to you, so I hope you'll be more specific this time. However, I would like to ask you a question relating to established illegal practice at the Military Medical Academy of Sofia, namely: the MMA is a medical institution at the Ministry of Defence for outpatient and hospital care and military science, military education and military expertise. Beyond these main specific functions, the MMA also concluded contracts with the National Health Insurance Fund for providing hospital and specialized outpatient care to Bulgarian citizens from all over the country, directed under the Health Insurance Act and the relevant regulations. The Academy is a legal entity of budget support to the Ministry of Defence. The data from the budget implementation reports of the Ministry of Defence and the Military Medical Academy, as well as the audit reports of the Court of Auditors, show that the revenue received at the MMA is significant. However, by both the subsidiary authorising officer, the Military Medical Academy and the Ministry of Defence have not initiated a request for permission from the Minister of Finance of the Military Medical Academy to move on to its own budget. Military Medical Academy provides patients with the necessary medical devices to treat them after conducting procedures under the Public Procurement Act. In case the items are not included in the prices of the clinical pathways, the National Health Insurance Fund shall recover a statutory value such as, note here the subtlety of the question, the difference to the price of which the items are purchased by the MMA is paid by the patient, normally prior to the clinical procedure. Article 82b, para. 3 of the Health Act prohibits medical institutions from making an overestimate and profit from this activity, i.e. the MMA appears and is only in the role of an intermediate unit, a mediator between the NHIF and the patient for payment of the medical devices of the supplier. However, in recent years the volume of late payments in this segment of suppliers has increased. In accordance with art. 14 of Ordinance No 10 of 2009, NHIF pays monthly, up to the 30th of the month, the medical devices put in. Currently, the Military Medical Academy has received its full account by the end of 2014, I suppose for a large part of 2015. And in the context of the above, I ask for your answer to the following: firstly, why is the funds transferred by NZKOK and patients to pay due amounts to medical devices providers directly into the budget of the Ministry of Defence? Why is there no procedure for them to be restored to the supplier within reasonable time limits? Before their economic nature, do you not consider it correct and appropriate that these funds should be taken into account separately, outside the approved budget of the Military Medical Academy? And most importantly, in some cases, with the suppliers of these medical devices, the CMA has been re-negotiating payment and concluding agreements in which agreements are negotiated concessions from the price of supplies already made in exchange for payment of the due. In view of the provision of the Health Act, shouldn't this concession be reimbursed to patients? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u92	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Here you are, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u93	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zafirov, on the first question I inform you that according to art. 49, para. 3 of the Rules on the Construction and Activity of the Military Academy, the Academy is gaining revenue on contracts concluded with the Health Insurance Fund. In accordance with art. 82b, health care facilities for hospital care are required to provide patients with the necessary medical devices to treat them through hospital pharmacies. The health care fund pays the MMA monthly medical devices to the relevant value that is reimbursed. The difference to the price of medical devices provided by the MMA for treatment is restored by the patient in the CMA register. The income received from the Health Insurance Fund shall be reported as transfers between budget accounts under the Budget Act of the Health Insurance Fund and shall be centralised in the single budget account system of the Ministry of Defence. An adjustment to the budget of the Ministry of Defence, including in the budget of the Ministry of Defence, is therefore not justified in taking this revenue into account separately from the budget of the Ministry of Defence. On the second issue, according to the annual Health Budget Act, the own revenues realised are not targeted and serve to cover expenditure. In this regard, the own revenues generated by the MMA are part of the Ministry of Defence's own revenue and are used as an element of the expenditure of the Ministry of Defence's budget in the part, pay attention to the MMA. On the third question concerning the conclusion of an agreement and the negotiation of concessions for suppliers, you should know that these concessions are on the total value of the obligation to the supplier for past periods and not on an amount for a particular patient. The medical device or consumer and the regulatory requirement or reason to be restored to the patient is a fact. I inform you that according to art. 11, para. 12 of the Act on Public Financial Secondary and Lower Degree Officers with Budget shall apply a delegated budget where it is determined by law and where, on the basis of that law, it is determined by the chief authorising officer with a budget to propose a delegated budget. In this sense, the Military Medical Academy has no legal basis to have a delegated budget and the funds in question to be reported separately outside the MMA budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u94	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Zafirov, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u95	Mr. Minister, I accept the first two answers, but on the third or you didn't understand me, or I didn't explain it well enough, so now I'm going to explain it a little simpler. When a patient has to do an operation that involves the use of some consumer, for example, to take one joint, and this consumer is charged BGN, the remaining 3,000. lv. be taken by the patient. For a long time, the Military Medical Academy does not pay off this consumer to suppliers. This is a fact and you can check it, then press the same suppliers with the argument that if they want to receive any money at all, as you said, and in other activities, they should reduce the price of this product. When this thing happens, I ask: where does the difference that goes between the price of this generated discount? Why doesn't that amount go back to the patient? If you would allow me, since yesterday the prime minister of the government said that there was not enough money to rearm the Bulgarian army, did the Ministry of Defense decide with these improperly collected funds to rearm the Bulgarian army? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u96	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Hole, Mr. Nenchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u97	Mr. Zafirov, thank you. Sarcasm is unnecessary. Along with Gen. Petrov we try to do our best to put order at the Military Medical Academy and enjoy positive results in this regard. I allow myself once again to make a commitment to you and to the Members of the National Assembly to check this case specifically and to make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u98	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a question from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov regarding the state of the material base in the Faculty of Artillery, Artillery and the National Military University of Vasil Levski. Mr. Ivanov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u99	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! You know that as early as 1948, by order of the Minister of Defense, the National Military Artillery School was formed, which is located in the city. Sofia. Since 1951, the school has been distributed in the city. Shumen and permanently connects its development with this city. In September 2002, the school was transformed into the Faculty of Artillery, Military Academy and the National Military University, preserving its location in the city. Noisy to this day. The main district of the faculty is in the ideal center of the city and has always been a cause for pride and patriotic feelings for both Sumerians and the guests of the city. Unfortunately, to date, the central building, namely the headquarters of the faculty, which is also used by the distributed unit of the Ministry of Defence, is in a miserable state and even poses a danger to the citizens and employees of the Ministry of Defence. My question is: what do you foresee, do you ever foresee any action to restore the normal architectural state of the building, namely repair and restraint, to be the worthy face of the institution that it represents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u100	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Minister Nenchev, please come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Dubov! I don't see him in the gym, anyway. First of all, thank you for asking. You have your reasons. The question you have raised concerns a four-storey building located in public government property in the city. Noisy. The National Military University manages the basement and the second floor of the building in which is located the headquarters of the Faculty of Artillery, LCV and LCV. The other three floors are in the management of Due to the lack of funds, these structures are not able to organise the renovation of the building. A meeting was held for solving the problem between the Deputy Minister of Defence, the Head of the National Military University and the Mayor of Shumen Municipality. It was decided that the municipality would help carry out the current renovation of the building and bring it into a state that would correspond to the infrastructure in the center of the district city. Additional sources of funding, including European projects, will be sought to launch the construction and repair works. Under the Law on State Property and the Law on Construction of the Territory, the National Military University and the.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Therefore, actions have been taken to provide funding for the renovation of the building. In order not to have accidents with passing persons, the building is secured with warning bands that are periodically updated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u102	Thank you, Minister Nenchev. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, from your answer I never understood exactly what you were planning to do with this building. Are you going to transfer it to Shumen County so she can do the repairs?! Just to remind you of a flashback in 2014 by the then Minister of Defence Mr. Angel Naydenov were given these funds, which, unfortunately, the minister of the service was unclear for what reasons he stopped. They were just relaxed. I see no reason now for you to do the same thing and directly give them there, because these meetings and conversations with the Deputy Minister and the mayor of the municipality of me do not make it clear to me exactly how they will fix the building. You know this is public government property of the Ministry of Defense, and the municipality can't invest there. In what way?! You talked about some funds you'll find. Me and no one in the room, probably didn't know where that money was coming from. I tell you the only way is to see the report note that Minister Angel Naydenov signed when he was a minister, to update it and to return these funds. [[Reply from Minister Nikolai Nenchev.]] Maybe so, but the funds were provided.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u104	No dialogue in the back, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u105	We want to know what's going on out there. To explain to us the municipality of Shumen with the Deputy Minister what they are doing and what the municipality has a commitment to make the building because it didn't become clear to me?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Hole, Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u107	Dear Mr. Ivanov, let me inform you that I was already in Shumen and visited the National Military University. I have visited this building, it is indeed an extremely beautiful building in the center of the city, and I want to tell you quite responsibly that we have the will to deal with it. You're asking what kind of conversations they were having. There are several possibilities. Here I made it very clear in the answer that we will look for opportunities, including in European programmes. Since there are several buildings in Shumen that the municipality is interested in, we could agree on. The Ministry of Defence is something that I very much welcome and do in recent months to transfer one or two properties to Shumen Municipality, against which it will undertake to repair this building. I've also met the necessary means. They're not that many, we can afford that. I hope this answer pleases you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u108	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to a common answer to two questions. First in the order is a question from the National Representative Ilian Sashov Todorov concerning the transfer of heavy American weapons to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Todorov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u109	The two questions are united, aren't they?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u110	After asking the second question, you will answer both questions orally.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u111	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, I would like to ask you a question about the future transfer of heavy American weapons to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thanks to the Bulgarian media these days we understand that the US intends to transfer 250 units of heavy weapons to Bulgaria and to five other countries in the region. This US intention was also stated in Estonian capital Tallinn by US Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter. In this regard, Minister, please answer me: what US military facilities will be located on Bulgarian territory? How many tanks, artillery stations, BTRs and others should we expect in our country and in which settlements will the same be located? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u112	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Second in the order is a question by the MP Atanas Todorov Merdjanov about the deployment of US equipment and military weapons in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question is similar to that of my colleague, but I would like to point out the following. During the last week, Mr. Minister, the press and the public were thrilled at the emergence of mutually exclusive allegations and information by the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. What's this about? I am obliged to point out these concerns of ours, as I suspect that you will start to justify yourself with the 2006 agreement, but in fact it is a planned operation after the summit in Wales, which was attended by the President, then Minister of Defence Shalamanov, and the current Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov, who decided in the form of continuous exercises to ensure the presence of heavy military equipment by the US state. There have been repeated publications in the US press, according to which it is clear that during these months a perfectly conscious, targeted process has been conducted with the consent and participation of the six countries, including Bulgaria, to deploy such a technique. My question is: what is the position of the Bulgarian government on the adoption of this heavily armed fighting technique?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u114	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. Minister Nenchev, you have six minutes to answer both questions together.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u115	Dear Mr. Todorov, dear Mr. Merdjanov! In implementation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States, you were right to refer to this agreement for cooperation in the field of defence, so far numerous Bulgarian-American military exercises have been held. Under this Agreement and for the purpose of conducting joint military exercises, military equipment and servicemen of the United States have been temporarily deployed on the territory of Bulgaria. The stated intention by US Secretary of Defence Ashton Carter is linked to the initiative to assist allies from Europe in overcoming and guaranteeing the countries of Central and Eastern Europe for their security, independence and territorial integrity. The aim is to increase NATO's readiness, capabilities and opportunities to respond to all possible destabilising actions. Now there is heavy weapons coming to Bulgaria as part of the planned exercises with NATO allies. These exercises are particularly necessary to maintain the preparation and fighting ability of the Bulgarian Army. Any future deployment of U.S. equipment and servicemen will be carried out as well as so far in full compliance with the provisions of the Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United States of America since 2006. By the way, Mr. Merdjanov, I assume that you have been in this Chamber and you have also supported and voted for this joint agreement, which gives us the opportunity today to carry out these actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u116	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Todorov, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u117	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Nenchev, you didn't answer the question I asked you. And the question was clear, precise and specific: how many tanks, artillery and BTRs will be located on Bulgarian territory? Yes, you are right that the BSP signed the humiliating Agreement for Bulgaria in 2006. We from the "Attack" proposed that these American bases be thrown out of our country and only a month ago everyone in this House....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I, Minister, see your statements in the media. You are trying to hide that these heavy U.S. tanks and weapons that will come to Bulgarian territory to occupy us would be used as a drill. However, Mr. Minister, I would like to tell you what a Brigadier General has said about Norman Cooling, Deputy Commander of the United States Marine Corps in Europe. Firstly, it is not true that they would remain until the end of the year. According to the same general, they will remain for a period of 18 months and the division of the US Marine Corps with tanks, armor carriers and artillery will be sent to Bulgaria in September, as a demonstration of the US commitment to NATO allies who are worried about Russia's participation in Ukrainian events. Mr. Minister, I ask you very much not to deceive the entire Bulgarian population that these heavy American weapons will come just because of some teachings in Bulgaria. They come here as an aggression towards the Russian Federation, thus all of you, the government, are making our country a target of the Russian nuclear forces, which was stated only a few days ago by Moscow. Minister, please answer me precisely, clearly and specifically: how many tanks, artillery, armor carriers will come to occupy our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u118	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Here you go, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, these little tricks with the 2006 Agreement won't do you any good. You cabinet officials, you've lied insolently, you've been tangled up in lies. We are talking about a targeted negotiation process that has nothing to do with the 2006 Agreement. You know very well that General Ben Hotges was visiting Bulgaria in February, as well as the other five Eastern European countries. The U.S. military minister's statement says they've been given consent by the six countries. Has the Bulgarian side consented to the deployment of this fighting technique? That's what I'm talking about! Both you and the President and the Prime Minister actually fooled the Bulgarian public opinion. Tell us the truth: who has participated in these negotiation processes, who has consented, and on what does this consent rest?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u120	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. A hole in the two lines, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u121	Dear Mr. Todorov, dear Mr. Merdjanov, yes, Bulgaria has indeed agreed. But this agreement, Mr. Merdjanov, ladies and gentlemen of BSP left Bulgaria gave it to you by the 2006 Agreement, with which you regulate this type of relationship and general training to take place within the territory of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u122	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u123	One's a drill, another's a drill!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u124	There's nothing more to it! Mr. Merdjanov, you have a tendency to abuse. I have the agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u125	Please, no dialogue with the House, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u126	Very clearly and categorically there it is regulated for what period. There's no difference. Indeed, this technique, last 250, has been specified the figure that will be distributed in six countries, which means that no more, no less, if it is distributed evenly, there will be about 40 tanks in Bulgaria. [[Reply from BSP LB.]] I'm saying eventually, which shouldn't be seen as any threat. I want to show you a table under which the maximum permission for Bulgaria is to have 1475 tanks, pay attention to this. There are 310 war machines available, armored machines. The maximum permissible figure is 2000 against the 900 available; artillery This comes to show that we are far from the figure that is regulated and allows Bulgaria to have this technique. There is nothing worrying about all this and it is done in order to facilitate relationships, common training activities. The technique will definitely not remain in the territory of Bulgaria. It will move where necessary. Thank you. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov.]] Mr. Merdjanov, we are part of NATO. Mr. Todorov very nicely said it here some time ago he tried to change, to propose to the National Assembly to change this agreement that you have proposed and accepted, but it has not been accepted. The Bulgarian Parliament is about 230 MPs against 10 maintain this agreement and it seems to me that this is extremely important and encouraging for the Bulgarian nation. Thank you. [[Replications from the MPs Atanas Merdjanov and Georgi Bozhinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u127	Thank you, Minister Nenchev, for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going to answer questions to Mr. Daniel Mitov, Minister of Foreign Affairs. The first question is from the MP Miglena Alexandrova on a meeting of the foreign ministers in Budapest to discuss the development of the project "Turkish Stream." Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, on 7 April 2015, the foreign ministers of Hungary, Serbia, Macedonia, Greece and Turkey discussed their prospects for participation in the new Russian gas project in Budapest. After the Bulgarian government's guilt so far, the South Stream project was stopped, the hope for our country remained that a part of the Turkish Stream will still reach Bulgaria, so the favourite of Mr. Borisov, the club. In this regard, I ask you to answer: have you received an invitation to this meeting in Budapest? Has the Ministry done everything necessary for our country to be represented at the energy meeting?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria is working on the country's foreign policy priorities set out in the Programme of the Government for the Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2018. This is a document expressing the consensus of the Council of Ministers on a number of sectoral policies, including foreign policy policies. The institution that I conduct consistently supports all initiatives aimed at strengthening the European Union's energy security and, in particular, Southeast Europe. Dealing with the common challenges of an energy nature in the region is only possible through the combined efforts of all the countries of it, a major factor of which is Bulgaria. Firstly, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria has not received an official invitation to me for the meeting of the foreign ministers of Hungary, Greece, the Republic of Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey, which took place on 7 April 2015 in Budapest. There has been no formal invitation to participate either with me or with representatives of the department in the meeting in question at a lower level as observers. For our country, as a Member State of the European Union, the implementation of priority projects for the Union, including in the region of South East Europe, should comply with the following conditions: First, the economic appropriateness, including the selection of the shortest possible gas route and the maximum use of existing infrastructure. Secondly, do not negatively affect the implementation of the Southern Gas Corridor and related projects, including TAP and TANAP, and actually contribute to diversification of sources other than gas routes. Thirdly, to minimize the political risks that are valid for projects passing through the territory of Member States of the European Union, such as Bulgaria. Fourth, there should be a financial resource for their implementation, which is valid for the list of projects of common interest of the European Union. Fifthly, all energy projects, including with the participation of candidate countries and negotiators for EU membership, shall be implemented in accordance with the requirements of European energy legislation. All this shows that tackling the energy challenges both facing our country and throughout the region of Southeast Europe require a responsible and strict legal basis from economic to legal nature. Its neglect, not only will not solve these problems, but will deepen them, because the great challenges ahead suggest a serious and clear answer. In our view, the idea of implementing a vertical gas corridor contains the most serious potential for energy security in the entire region of Southeast Europe. At the initiative of the Prime Minister of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov on 9 February 2015 in Sofia was established a high-level group for the construction of gas connections in Central and South East Europe. I am talking about the Energy Union, the Commissioner for Energy and Climate Change, representatives of the countries of Central and South East Europe. An agreement was reached at the meeting to launch a sub-group to build the vertical gas corridor. The first meeting of the energy ministers of Bulgaria, Romania and Greece on the vertical gas corridor took place on 21 April 2015 in Sofia. The latter is indicative in the direction that Bulgaria's initiatives in relation to the energy problems of our country, Southeast Europe and the European Union have European legitimacy and approval, which are difficult to recognise in alternative projects. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll continue my answer when it's time for the douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u131	Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, from your answer to the moment, the fact that you have not been invited to this meeting speaks very badly about Bulgaria and the foreign policy that you are leading first. Secondly, you are talking about European rules. Why are they one for Greece and another for Bulgaria? So through Greece you can, and through Bulgaria you can't. Not only will we not have a South Stream that Bulgaria will benefit from, but we will import Russian gas with a Turkish mark-up that we understand from your response.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you are, Minister Mitov, for the backdrop and continue your thought in the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u134	I don't know whether to keep thinking about it at all, but to say this. Firstly, the Turkish Stream is in no way a project that has so far been practically implemented. Several memorandums of understanding are signed and nothing more. There are billions of them around the world without any consequences. Secondly, Greece is subject to the same rules as Bulgaria. I did not in vain list, if you are listening carefully, what future energy projects should respond to: first, economic appropriateness; second, not to negatively affect the implementation of the Southern Gas Corridor, which Turkey's stream will do; to minimize the political risks; to have a financial resource for their realization; all energy projects, including the participation of candidate countries and negotiators, will be implemented in accordance with the requirements of European energy legislation. These five things practically put enormous question mark on the realization of the so-called Turkish Stream project. It is important to us that you know very well that the Turkish Minister of Energy did not go to sign any documents at the last meeting in St Petersburg. This is indicative of what is happening with the Turkish Stream. Signing memorandums of understanding means nothing. That's clear. It is important for us that the Energy Union of the European Union is planned and conceptually implemented by the European Union. The European Union is a customer who buys Russian gas and it is up to us what the future energy map of Europe will look like. So at the moment to draw conclusions is very, very early on the one hand, on the other hand, it is important for us the vertical gas corridor, which will allow gas to pass through Bulgaria from the southern gas corridor and from the El and G s, which are being built in Greece, which puts us as a transiting gas state as we are at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u135	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A question from the MP Stanislav Todorov Stanilov regarding the absence of a reaction to the non-explosion of the murder of two ethnic Bulgarians during the pogrom and the fire in the Union House in Odessa on 2 May 2014. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u136	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Minister! A few days ago, another report on Ukraine by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights was published. He pointed out that 6417 people were killed in the conflict zone in Eastern Ukraine in mid-April 2014 until 30 May 2015 and 15 962 were injured. There are also dozens of ethnic Bulgarians among those who died. As a major problem, the UN report points to the lack of justice and prosecution. I quote literally: In particular, the investigations into the murder of demonstrators and representatives of the police forces in the square of Nezavisitvo. In Kiev, 117 killed and violence in Odessa on 2 May 2014. "Twenty-eight dead." Last year the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry announced that there are no Bulgarian citizens among the victims and victims in Odessa, but failed to care if there are ethnic Bulgarians who are Ukrainian citizens. In February 2015, Vasil Vasilev, Chairman of the General Bulgarian Committee Vasil Levski, gave information that two ethnic Bulgarians were burned alive in Odessa. Months after this announcement by the Bulgarian authorities showed an outrageous lack of reaction. The need for such a reaction becomes particularly necessary in view of the recent findings of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. In this regard, please answer me what measures will you take before the Ukrainian authorities in order to conduct an objective investigation into the murder of the two ethnic Bulgarians during the Pogrom and the fire in the Union House in Odessa on 2 May 2014? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u137	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Stanilov! I would like to start by pointing out that the tragic events in Odessa from 2 May 2014 were closely followed by the Consulate General of the Republic of Bulgaria in Odessa and by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In relation to them, a case has been brought by the Malinovo District Court in Odessa, and until now there is no decision of this court on any of the charges raised by the General Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine. In the most advanced phase is the procedure for establishing those responsible for the events of the Greek Square in Odessa. Only after this part of the case is concluded will the prosecution proceed with the prosecution of the suspects for the death of the deceased in the Union House. According to non-official data, I stress that among the victims of the period of protests against mobilization are ethnic Bulgarians Milev and Nikolov from the village of Kolevcha, Saratski district of Odessa district. In an attempt by the Consulate General of the Republic of Bulgaria in Odessa to obtain additional information, the mayor of the village informed him that he did not know these names were of persons from the village of Kolevcha. According to the Ukrainian investigative authorities and judicial authorities, the slow course of the case was due to a number of procedural violations and shortcomings of the indictments, to the actual destruction of evidence in the first few days after the events and the unsuccessful until now, the search for suspects. Due to the exceptional public interest and the attempts at political pressure, the initially appointed panel of the Odessa Premier District Court is refusing to bring the case further delaying its course. It should be borne in mind that the accusations brought against the guilty persons, directly or indirectly, on human victims, are dealt with in the same case and there is no objective possibility of a reaction leading to a separate charge concerning only the circumstances resulting from which individual specific persons died. International institutions monitoring the case have also not attempted such a reaction. The Consulate General of the Republic of Bulgaria in Odessa and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall continue to monitor the development of the case and, if possible, under the international law and internal law of Ukraine and taking into account the Ukrainian citizenship of the abovementioned persons, will consider taking concrete action on the case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Line, Mr. Stanilov? Did you get your card?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u140	Dear Minister, the actions of the court in Odessa are not subject to control by the Ukrainian Government. As far as I know, on the Constitution of Ukraine, the court is independent, and in almost all countries of the world, especially in Europe. The point is that the investigative authorities are subject to such control, and if the Ukrainian Government really wants things to go better, it could take vigorous measures in this regard. In this respect, more energetic measures could also be taken by the Bulgarian government. I think that a diplomatic demarche in the form of a note to the Ukrainian government could be done because indeed Mr. Vasil Vasilev, Chairman of the General Bulgarian Committee, Vasil Levski, will not accidentally give such information that these two Bulgarians were really killed in this conflict. And one more thing I'd like to add to this question of mine. The Committee on Bulgarians Abroad at the National Assembly at yesterday's meeting was told by representatives of Bulgarian schools abroad that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not perform its duties sufficiently and does not use its capabilities to help. Furthermore, Mr. President of this Commission had sent an invitation to the Deputy Minister to come to the meeting. This Deputy Minister did not wish to come here to the National Assembly. As a Member of the National Assembly, as a representative of the legislature, I make you an explicit note that when your deputy or yourself are invited to such committee, you are obliged to appear and your Deputy Minister commits a violation of the law. Please pay serious attention to him! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u141	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Stanilov! I accept your concern regarding the Odessa case. As it became clear from my answer, we are following the case, but this is about something much bigger. It is about the fact that there must be very severe rapid reforms in Ukraine which are related to the obligations that Ukraine has undertaken under the association agreement with the European Union. Some of these reforms are also related to reforms in the judiciary. Bulgaria clearly and categorically defends the position that as soon as possible these reforms should be carried out. We hope that this will lead to a more rapid and effective investigation of the case, as well as to the search for the guilty and to clarification of the circumstances themselves and of the identity of the victims. You have heard from my reply that in our attempts to determine whether the two people you are talking about are from the village in question, it is clear that the mayor himself has no record of this. There's a lot of work to be done, that's true. Of course, I will draw attention to the presence of both deputy ministers and my own in committees when we are invited, but I have to tell you that everything by law is being carried out and when I have to attend, I attend committees, you know very well. There are procedures and rules that we follow and we have not allowed ourselves to deviate from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u143	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs by the National Representative Rumen Yonchev on the organisation and provision of humanitarian aid to Ukraine. Here you are, Mr. Yonchev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question is particularly relevant, Minister, given that in a few days, as far as I know, you will be visiting Ukraine, you will also have meetings with the Bulgarian communities there. Pretty soon after that, Mr. President's visit is coming. So the topic is constantly up-to-date and continues to be up-to-date. Since February we have been talking about providing humanitarian aid to the Bulgarians in Ukraine. It has been almost six months and it becomes a very confusing explanation why, how, when, how this assistance will be provided to the Bulgarian communities there, because, after all, when we are talking about humanitarian aid, it needs to be provided quickly and effectively. My question also relates to the fact that, after a long time of thought, a public contract was put forward by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to purchase humanitarian aid to be granted to the Bulgarian Red Cross, which through the Red Cross of Ukraine to carry out the delivery of the aid. There are two things that disturb this public procurement. One is this, the condition is that the aid will be distributed through the Ukrainian Red Cross, which does not operate in the conflict zones, that is, it is practically difficult to do so. Secondly, it is pointed out that the aid is for the Bulgarians in Ukraine. Something that also largely contradicts at least the common humanitarian rules, that is, we cannot point out that the aid will only go to the Bulgarian population in these areas. This disturbs quite those who carefully read the announced order. As far as I know, the deadline has expired, I do not know if it is contested, but the question remains: what steps does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs take to ensure the guaranteed delivery of the humanitarian aid shipment to Donbass? How will its allocation be organised in order to actually reach the representatives of our community living in crisis areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u145	Thank you, Mr. Yonchev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u146	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yonchev, I will not describe the situation in Ukraine, it is severe and it is clear. I'm getting to the point. Since the start of the conflict, EU member states have been actively involved in helping the population and seeking solutions to address the serious humanitarian situation in Ukraine. In the framework of these efforts in December 2014, the Republic of Bulgaria provided a single humanitarian aid of EUR 50,000 through the International Committee of the Red Cross. After the new escalation of the conflict at the beginning of 2015 and in response to the incoming information about the increasing number of needy civilians in the territory of Donetsk, including representatives of the Bulgarian community, I approved the provision of new humanitarian aid to Ukraine of 196 thousand. BGN, which comes from the funds for development aid and humanitarian aid, which are part of the budget of the office for 2015. In view of the complicated situation in the country various options and tools for providing the aid were discussed, including the award of the organization for the purchase of the goods and their transport to Ukraine to the Bulgarian Red Cross, whose leadership responded positively to the possibility to take over the task. In February, meetings were held in due time with the management of BCC and Mr. Anton Kisse, Chairman of the Association of Bulgarians in Ukraine, to determine the content and form of the aid, according to the needs of the poor population. It has been clarified that humanitarian packages will contain food of primary need, sanitary and dressing materials, blankets and so on. With the intention of the Bulgarian government to send humanitarian aid the Ukrainian government and Ukrainian Red Cross were acquainted with which assistance was requested for the smooth passage of the humanitarian convoy into the territory of Ukraine and its entry into areas controlled by separatists. Through the Ambassador of the Republic of Bulgaria to Kiev, assurances were received from the Ukrainian Red Cross that it will create an overall organization for the reception of assistance in Odessa, its shaping and tax exemption, as well as the accompanying of part of the consignment to Donetsk and its distribution among the needy Ukrainian citizens, including those of Bulgarian origin. As is known, the tensions in Eastern Ukraine have subsequently led to the suspension of humanitarian operations in the conflict zone, where even the humanitarian convoys of the International Committee of the Red Cross have not been allowed. I would like to emphasise that Bulgarian humanitarian aid is provided in full respect of the principles of international humanitarian cooperation, including the principles of neutrality, impartiality and non-discrimination in relation to ethnic and national communities. In this case, we consider the interaction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with authoritative and recognised partners in this area, such as BCK and the Ukrainian Red Cross, as a guarantee of compliance with these fundamental principles. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also carried out a significant activity in clarifying the legal procedure applicable to the lawful provision of budgetary resources for the purchase of goods in Bulgaria which are intended for humanitarian aid in Ukraine. Interinstitutional coordination was also necessary, which led to some delay in the overall organisation of preparation and sending of the aid. As part of this coordination, the opinion of the Court of Auditors was requested and a meeting was organised at the Public Procurement Agency of the Ministry of Economy. [[The President said that time had run out.]] Under the current legislation, the provision of official development aid and humanitarian aid for amounts exceeding the thresholds under art. 14, para. 5, t. 2 of the Public Procurement Act is carried out in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down in the Public Procurement Act. In view of the exceptional circumstances within the meaning of Paragraph 1, paragraph 1, 8 of the Public Procurement Act, a humanitarian crisis, food shortages of primary necessity and endangering the health and life of the civil population, is applicable to the provision of art. 90, para. 1, t. 4 of the Public Procurement Act, which regulates the award of public contracts through a negotiated procedure without notice. Since I'm running out of time, I'm going to continue with the details of the answer to the doppelganger, because it's very important to speak the rest of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u147	Mr. Yonchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u148	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, I will no longer comment on the way in which the public procurement is formulated, because obviously there are some mistakes there. I understand that you can point out all possible arguments as to why humanitarian aid has not been a fact for five months now, but what is indicative in this case is that the Bulgarian state is incapable of reacting, fails to respond promptly in a crisis situation. When we talk about humanitarian aid, it really must be timely, it must be targeted and it must reach the addressee as quickly as possible. Five months is an awfully long time. I do not want to be in your place next week when you are among our communities in Ukraine, because it will be very difficult for you to answer the question: why, what did these four, five, six months have to pass before there is a public procurement for this thing at all? Not to mention that from the moment the contract period expires to the moment the goods are purchased until they are delivered, more months will pass. I very much hoped that during your visit you would actually be able to bring the help, so to speak, but this is obviously impossible and it will be quite unpleasant for you and for your delegation to explain to our compatriots why, how so the Bulgarian state has failed for so many months to do its job. At the same time, there was a lot of help there. I am setting an example right now. The Turkish state has put huge resources into helping gagauses and others. In general, as humanitarian aid in the region, many other countries managed to implement such programmes, only we fail to do our job. Thank you, and I hope you speed up the process, because otherwise it really doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u149	Thank you, Mr. Yonchev. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u150	Dear Mr. Yonchev, I know it will be difficult for me, I do not run from difficulties. Believe me, with all our options, we'll try to speed up the process. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we will need support from the Members of the National Assembly for certain changes in the regulation and especially the specific case of the provision of humanitarian aid in excess of the thresholds for the supply of goods, because we have taken the necessary action to award a contract, through a negotiated procedure without notice, and currently the time limits for carrying out ex ante controls by the Public Procurement Agency are running. That is to say, our regulation is such that it is slowing us down at the moment, and practically we need to come up with a way and introduce legislative changes to ensure that when the Bulgarian State intends to send such assistance, in any case, it can do so quickly and effectively, because we work by law and by rules. Unfortunately, we're in a situation where the law slows us down. The above case, which is not alone in the practice of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is indicative of some gaps in the regulations governing the provision of Bulgarian official development aid and humanitarian aid. This circumstance prevents the Minister of Foreign Affairs from exercising his delegated powers in a timely manner pursuant to PMS No 234 of 2011, supplemented by PMS No 371 of November 2014 on the policy of the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of international development cooperation. It should be noted that development policy, which is a relatively new activity for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Partner Offices, needs further institutional and procedural provision and further development of the legal framework. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is making every effort to activate this activity as an instrument for implementing our foreign policy priorities and for extending relations with our strategic partners in the field of development. A new structure is to be established in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will meet the institutional technical and expert standards adopted in other Member States. I am using the case of humanitarian aid for Ukraine to inform the MPs that as part of the process of institutional changes in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there is also a proposal for initiating a review and amendments of the regulations, including the preparation and submission of a specialized law to regulate the comprehensive issues of Bulgarian development aid and humanitarian aid. Here we will ask for your cooperation, ladies and gentlemen of the House, because we have a problem with regulation. If the humanitarian aid in question has not yet reached the right place, with all our good wishes this is due to the procedure it must go through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u151	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This was the last question about this Friday control of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov. Before we continue with answers from the Minister of Regional Development, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u152	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues! I, from "Attack" want to address the future occupation of Bulgaria by heavy US military equipment. Let's do a flashback in the past to find out who is really responsible for Bulgaria being occupied and for its national security to be put on the line. Let us recall that, as early as 2006, the three coalitions with Prime Minister Sergey Stanishev and the Foreign Minister of the ruling coalition, Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, signed a Defence Cooperation Agreement with the United States. This was done by Stanishev's office. Under this Agreement, foreign military tanks, artillery, BTR-ri and any weapons as well as, of course, marines can be brought to Bulgaria. Under this Agreement today, Bulgaria, most likely, as we hear from high-ranking representatives of the Pentagon, the US Secretary of Defense, will be occupied with foreign equipment. In 2006, the only political power in the Bulgarian parliament that voted against signing this agreement with the United States was the party "Attack." Let me remind you that at the time, "Attack" organized a thousandth rally against which forces of the Bulgarian gendarmerie and police were sent. Party activists "Attack" were beaten. This must not be forgotten! Today we hear that the technique with which our country will be occupied was NATO. Here is the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who says: "The more NATO troops in Bulgaria, the better. But it's a huge delusion, because this is about American tanks and soldiers. Ask yourself: why, if this is about NATO, do not come Spanish, French, German, Italian or other members of the Alliance, but come only American?! Once again, in 2015 the Council adopted Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). To show our proposal to the attack that we have done [[shows document]] So that in the future Bulgaria will not be occupied by US military compounds and parts. This proposal was rejected by BSP, DPS, GERB, the Reformation Block, the Patriotic Front, ABB, BDS and everyone in this Chamber, who today, part of them, are against the occupation of Bulgaria by the US military. They voted precisely for this and rejected the Ataka's proposal to end this humiliating treaty for our country. And BSP left Bulgaria, which today, unfortunately, are purely hypocritical, pretending to be great opponents of the American state. Moreover, BSP is a strong supporter of Bulgaria's participation in NATO. We have proposed that a referendum be made by the people to say whether we want to be part of NATO, because this is the most democratic way? The BSP refused to give us signatures on this and the attack did not succeed in creating such a referendum. We hear the thesis that the weapons to come to Bulgaria were fully defensive. I apologize very much, I can't understand if an M1 Abrams tank could be defensive, could it also be used as an entirely attacking military technique? Of course he can! Can a BTR be used to attack? Of course he can! Artillery, Gabis, this is a technique that, apart from defense, is also used to attack. Let's not fool the Bulgarian citizens that this technique comes to Bulgaria just like that, there was no fear. If the tank would come, a hundred, it was nothing disturbing! This technique, ladies and gentlemen, is directed against the Russian Federation in connection with the crisis in Crimea. Thus, with the technique coming to Bulgaria, our country becomes the target of Russian nuclear forces. It becomes a target thanks to the Bulgarian short-sighted policy that will put us in this dangerous situation for us. As evidence of these words, Russia Security Council representative Evgeny Lukyanov stated on June 24th: "Moscow warns anyone who wants to deploy American weapons systems on his territory that this is his choice, but Russian nuclear forces will be directed against these countries. [[Shows a copy of an article.]] This is a statement by a senior representative of the Russian Federation. Dear colleagues, we at Ataka say once again: Don't drag Bulgaria into this madness! Don't drag us into this! We have warned you many times about our waters of another national catastrophe. You are jeopardizing the life and national security of the entire country. One day you will be responsible for these actions of yours. We say from Ataka: immediately to end all relations with the United States of America with regard to the supply of military weapons, military equipment, marines or foreign troops in Bulgarian territory, which in themselves do not provide protection to our state, but the opposite.. involve us in a madness from which we will all suffer. Thank you. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u153	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! The Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria has a clear position since February of the Executive Bureau on the deployment of military equipment, military contingents in Bulgaria in connection with the crisis in Ukraine. Then we made it clear that neither Bulgarian citizens accept nor Bulgarian interests require the deployment of military equipment. Moreover, when we are witnessing today that the government, entering into secret agreements aimed at removing responsibility from it for this decision, going back to the past on our common agreements for membership in the Atlantic Union, did not inform the Bulgarian society of what is happening in terms of the deployment of equipment in the context of the plans relating to the situation in Ukraine. And if the government is running and hiding to state a clear position, there are such opposition forces, such as those who practice the subject on the back of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, something that is unacceptable. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] The Bulgarian Socialist Party is not against relations with the United States of America, but relations on an equal footing, on a clear basis, taking into account mutual interests, taking into account that Bulgaria in this situation will suffer new losses from turning it into a prefrontal state, given that in individual countries the moods on this issue are different, that the moods in the Bulgarian citizens are different from those of the Polish citizens, the citizens of the Baltic countries. All this should be taken into account in a responsible and frank dialogue with our Atlantic partners. The government didn't do that. It is trying today to shift responsibility back in time when Bulgaria became a member of the North Atlantic Union and when it has certain commitments. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to be consistent and clear in our position, a position that meets the interests of Bulgarian citizens; a position that meets the long-term interests of Bulgaria; a position that ultimately meets the interests of the Bulgarian economy. Because this situation of the poorest country of the Union, when the elements of a prefrontal state engaged in positioning military forces and equipment are already put in it, this will have additional losses for our country, where the government should seek in frank conversation and dialogue compensation with our partners. Finally, this will further complicate our relationship with the Russian Federation, for which this government has done enough to break down. And when it comes to hubs around Varna, it should be clear that today, 8 months since the second government of Borisov and GERB with their coalition partners is in power, these relations have been in the worst condition since hundreds of years ago. For hundreds of years, not dozens! This implies a responsible dialogue in which the political forces will exclude their elementary interests within the framework of political positioning before the upcoming local elections. This requires responsible dialogue in which both government and opposition and all non-parliamentary political forces must look, first of all, one: the interests of Bulgaria in the complex situation that exists today at the borders of the European Union and in the Middle East. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u155	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. I don't see any other parliamentary speaking groups. We move on to questions and questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova. The first parliamentary inquiry is from the MP Manol Genov on the policy of the government to overcome the economic backwardness of individual regions in the country and to prepare a targeted investment programme in support of the development of Northwestern Bulgaria, Strandzha, Rhodopes and other border mountain and semi-mountain low-developed areas. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mrs. Pavlova! My question is this: When will the government start fulfilling its commitments under priority 13.1 of the Government's Programme by analyzing and assessing the current state of the specific problems of the socio-economic development of the lag areas in their economic development? When will the strategic objectives and priorities for their development be defined with the participation of all stakeholders - sectoral ministries, local authorities, regional managers, business, civil organisations and others? When will the strategy for economic recovery and development of Northwestern Bulgaria, Strandzha, Rhodopes and other border, mountain and semi-mountain underdeveloped areas be developed in this priority of the Programme, and when will the Investment Programme for targeted integrated development of the lag regions in Bulgaria be located, as well as the criteria for evaluating the projects under the operational programmes that will give additional points to municipalities in the underdeveloped regions when they apply for the respective programmes? Is financial security envisaged under this priority and to what extent?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u157	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Minister Pavlova, you have five minutes under the asking procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Genov! You also had the opportunity yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Regional Policy to receive my very comprehensive and detailed answer on what is the progress of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works regarding the implementation of one of the very important priorities not only in the management programme, but also in the work of the Ministry, namely the development of such a targeted investment programme to support the development not only of Northwestern Bulgaria, but also of the Rhodopes, Strandzha and less developed border regions. What I want to assure you is that we are working from the first day, at the moment when this programme, as such, has been formulated and adopted. The policy of the Ministry has been developed and, accordingly, I would say, the framework on which we can develop such a programme. You know that the Minister of Regional Development has also been created an Interdepartmental Council on Regional Policy, which includes not only representatives of state institutions, but including the Association of Municipalities, so that both the framework and the scope of this programme can be discussed, and subsequently, as you said, to have the broad debate when discussing the first drafts such as analyses, strategies that show the strengths and weaknesses, the prospects of these regions, including the specific projects to include them. We also conducted a procedure. We have chosen the National Centre for Territorial Development as a co-operation consultant. Experts in the team are not only representatives of the National Centre, but also specialists who have been dealing with the problems and development of major urban centers not only in the country for more than three years. As part of the analysis, we will also draw from the experience of the countries of the European Union what measures they have taken, as well as from the experience of several other countries. Meanwhile, we signed a Cooperation Agreement with the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences with the National Institute of Geophysics, Geodesy and Geography of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which will also provide us with detailed analysis and information so that we have precisely formulated the geographical situation in terms of the territorial scope of these geographical areas, which are semi-mountain, mountain, in order to be as precise as possible by formulating this programme. The first stage, as recorded in our contract with the National Centre for Territorial Development, by the end of July, must form the first package of documents as part of this document, and I hope in August, although it is a month of leave, at the latest in September, it will be widely discussed and debated not only on regional development councils, but also within the Regional Development Council. We have already conducted regional development advice, so some information has been collected and discussed with them as well. The final version of this document must be prepared according to our graphic plan at the end of November. Since at the end of November, parallel to this is the time when the 2016 budget, as well as the three-year budgetary framework should be ready, we have made a commitment as a ministry at the beginning of this budgetary procedure and with the budget to be reviewed by the government, then also here by parliament, to set indicative values for state budget funds to support this programme in addition to European funds. What we aim for as a result, by analysing first and by doing an in-depth analysis, to specify what are the important projects that would help better develop these regions. The aim is to make a detailed analysis of which of these projects can be financed under the operational programmes, which can be financed under the Rural Development Programme and where projects are important for the development of the region concerned, but for one reason or another cannot fall within the scope of the European funds programmes, namely for them to provide funds from the state budget as co-financing of these identified priority measures and activities. So this is the approach to funding and co-financing that we can support so that the programme does not remain just one good intention or another good strategically good document that does not have its financial security. In parallel, because you have also asked a question about competitiveness, I confirm that the new Programme "Competitiveness 2014-2020" already includes such criteria in the selection and financing of small and medium-sized enterprises to receive support for it, giving a greater number of points precisely to those of them who will develop their activities on the territory of Northwestern Bulgaria. I also consider this to be a step in the direction we are talking about about looking for more investment in underdeveloped areas, where it is really very difficult to intensify measures to bring people back from larger to smaller settlements. This type of migration is very difficult to reverse, so certainly the efforts should be directed in this direction, together with business, not only as measures related to the strategic planning of regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u159	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Genov, you have the floor for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u160	Mrs. Pavlova, I heard your answer yesterday to that brief question. You were more specific today. It's extremely noble of you to say so far. However, I also want to tell you some things. From the start of the program you started, blunders began to happen. The district governor of Plovdiv region wrote a letter to six municipalities with a date, with an outgoing number from 1 April 2015. I happen to announce this information that on April 20th, five more municipalities were invited to take the lead with the municipality of Plovdiv. On April 20, the same day when I announce it, four more municipalities were invited, except for three, one was added. The city of Plovdiv, as a municipality, stands. Plovdiv is a wonderful city, needs money, but I don't know when it was a border area. Maybe during the Middle Ages?! Maybe we should put him in a border tower? Perhaps we view them as a mountain and it should develop as a semi-mountain or mountain area?! Everyone has to develop, but then we have to move the Kalofer Balkan to be the mountain species of Plovdiv. At the same time he received nominations for a well-developed city. It's a well-known truth. My question is this: aren't we still corrupting with the start of the program by dividing the municipalities into ours and yours? After all, the Regional Development Council, which changed the dates of whether it will be 28 or 30, has approved 23 projects of seven municipalities. Didn't we start collecting projects a little loose? You yourself said that you attracted the Academy of Sciences, a specialized institute. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Somehow we're starting to get the geography wrong. I think the Ministry should have done this before it started collecting projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u161	The weather, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u162	My idea is to clarify geography first, do the analysis and then start collecting projects. You said the program would be summarized and made in November. Let it be so! Let it be clear, however, what will be the added value and for how many people, as you yourself said, that it is extremely difficult to reverse the trend of migration, to set the goals that we will achieve with this?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u163	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Here you go, Mrs. Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Genov, first of all, I want to assure you that we do not discriminate in any way against municipalities and divide them by party belonging to their mayors. I would like to clarify as a whole, within the framework of the approach that we are implementing, outside the targeted work and support that we and the National Centre for Territorial Development are making, in addition to the programme that concerns Northwestern Bulgaria, the Rhodopes and Strandzha, as well as mountain and semi-mountain border regions as targeted support, that as part of the analysis, we have commissioned to go beyond these areas to try to make a database of projects at development level to ensure that we have a unified approach. You know that, in principle, the Regional Development Act implies and says that there should be separate targeted funding at the planning area level, at the level of the six planning areas. It's just a combination of the two approaches. This is why we request information from Plovdiv, as requested by all major district cities as well. That shouldn't bother you. This does not mean that we will downplay the importance or that there will be no projects in all settlements that will be part of the territorial scope of the targeted programme for poorly developed areas. However, this does not mean that we should ignore large settlements and large cities. Yes, they are currently receiving a significant resource under the European funds and the R &amp; D programme, but there will certainly also be measures and activities that cannot be financed from the European funds, and the balance needs to be sought. When the state budget is being allocated, we need to make sure that they are for an integrated policy and will make sense that there is added value to the investment, not to give it in a piece. That's the reason. I want to assure you that we are working with all local authorities, representatives of all municipalities. As I said yesterday, I can repeat it today: we have received a list of proposals from absolutely all areas. Like I said, he's a waish list of wishes, intentions and dreams. To a large extent these are certainly wonderful projects, but there is also certainly no guarantee that they will lead to better economic development and whether these are the most important and priority needs of these settlements. The aim is to see the wishes and intentions of local authorities as the approach is bottom-up. And above and below we will do a comprehensive analysis of the policy with which to stimulate in these depopulated areas, with some good specialists, investors, if they invest there, to provide them with sufficient skilled labour. I would say that this is one of the biggest problems in Northwestern Bulgaria because there are now investors who are willing, but they set a condition that was from a meeting in the last days for 400 highly qualified specialists in the Vidin region. However, there is no way to get them out there, and it is difficult to stimulate them to go to work there. These are the problems we're trying to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u165	Thank you, dear Minister. I now give the floor to the honourable MP Manol Genov for his response to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u166	I hope there won't really be ours and your municipalities, Mrs. Pavlova, as you said. I'll go back to the previous example. In Plovdiv district of 18 municipalities were requested projects of 7 and their number is 23 of those 1000, which you said were collected in the Ministry. I trust your assurances that there will really be no discrimination, there will be no discrimination between us and yours, there will be no party principle, even though there is a confusion at the start of the program. Warn your people on the spot to be on another principle on the principle of defined and defined, as you said, areas that will be subject to development, which will be analyzed for what they need. I believe in the noble intentions you expressed earlier, and that all this will happen, however difficult it may be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u167	Thank you, Mr. Genov. We continue with the next question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Pavlova. The question is from the MP Mihail Raykov Mikov about the repair of the international road Vidin Kula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Since yesterday, there has been a great sorrow in the Northwest, declared by the Prime Minister. This grief has been going on for many years, only the question I'm asking is also related to this. In 2010 and 2011, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I took In your time, he was determined. It is about an international road that connects four or five municipalities to the district town, but mostly connects Bulgaria, through the border crossing. It was so decided, dear Minister, that now everything has fallen apart! You were lucky the last time you were a minister to finish this renovation, and now we're starting over again, minus the money that was spent. Who's the bigger problem? That this is about emergency construction, it is about once and for all solving this problem, it is about closing a border. What are you going to do about it specifically? Just don't tell me. I am looking here at Mr. Plevneliev, as he was a minister: some watersheds, some waterfalls, some wonders, some stories twice in the National Assembly and now nothing there has collapsed, a gap! Please tell me: when are you going to make this road that clogs both the border with Serbia and the connection of four or five municipalities to the district city? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u169	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Madam Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mikov, yes, the road you are asking your question about is the second-class road Vidin. In the direction of this road traffic, unfortunately, is not as intense as we would like, but certainly if we improve its state, as well as in the direction of Vidin and the Danube Bridge, this traffic would increase in this I think we are all convinced. In order to be correct in speaking, not because I want to justify myself with my predecessors, let me get this straight. Yes, you are right, you asked Mr. Rosen Plevneliev this question as Minister of Regional Development. I would like to point out that, as he answered you, he answered in his reply, about this 200-meter section, where there are problems at that time there is a compromise on the road base, precisely on the spill that fell down and then, and now, they are assigned to about 300,000 then. lv. emergency activities related to the strengthening of this embankment and they have been implemented in time and in the mandate of Mr. Plevneliev as Minister of Regional Development. It is a fact that activities have been carried out, but obviously they have been insufficient. The clearly implemented activities, as you rightly noted, are activities aimed at the emergency repair. That's why this time we decided to change our approach. What we are doing right now may have seen it, and you have announced a tender procedure, so that we can do a detailed analysis of the geological state, of the condition of the terrain, of the reasons that led to this spectacular really subsidence of the flood and sinking, which is about a meter, to make sure that the measures that will be designed from now on on on on on on on the basis of this analysis are measures that will solve the problem permanently. I hope that once we select a contractor, this geological survey is done, an analysis is done and measures to be implemented to strengthen this 200-meter section will be provided, API will apply under the Interdepartmental Commission for Disasters and Accidents, as this is an emergency reinforcement, and we will be able to implement the reinforcement actions. Something that I also hold and it is important to clarify for you and for everyone who listens to us and watch is not closed this time, so our border with the Republic of Serbia is not closed. You know very well that the old road was asphalted, the so-called bypass was made, so the road is open to traffic and vehicles pass on it every day. We will maintain it in a state of absolute passability until the quality measures are implemented and the road is restored to its opposite state, whatever it should be for a second-class road, because we currently have a bypass that is used to bypass. That's the situation at the moment. I see your reaction is certainly not the one you like. We don't like it either, but we need to implement the activities, analyze and invest properly, so it's not just an investment that goes down again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u171	Thank you for your answer, Minister Pavlova. Line, Mr. Mikov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, obviously you have no clarity as to when this work will take place. Analyses, geological studies, we will see, we will apply. And people need a way! The fall isn't one meter. Two or three meters is the fall! Absolutely insane is the environment of movement. The argument that there wasn't much movement, was it from the Danube Bridge, as in a year and two months passed a million cars, to fix this route? Because such a nuance sounded. This time for us is not so important because there is not much traffic! Well, hang up, fence Northern Bulgaria with ditches, as the work starts with Serbia, traffic will fall even more and Danube Bridge will stay to fish from it! [[laughs, laughs.]] I'm giving you the idea of a tourist site. There's a pon d'Avignon, and there's even a French song that's halfway across the river, there's no road, and you're going to be fishing in the Danube. I'm going to ask you again in the fall, and now I'm telling you what I'm going to ask you: when are these 200 meters going to be done? What is this country, with all its highways, with all its wonders, where the road to the border 200 meters falls down, will analyze it, will do it and unclear when?! Please tell them at API to all the people who are doing this job that this is not serious! A European state can't do that and the minister can say when six, eight, ten, twelve months! Get your BTRs! It's not serious. I'll ask you again in the fall. Thanks. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u173	Thank you, Mr. Mikov, for the creative line. Mrs. Secretary, the doppelganger? Mrs. Pavlova is giving up the backrest. We continue with the next question, he is from the National Representative Slavi Binev, concerning violation of duties. Mr. Binev, you are about to develop the issue and find out specifically about the type of violation of the duties. You have the floor, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u174	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! Respected Minister, recently on Facebook and in some of the bolder media was published a picture of a new or repaired, but put into service a road in the middle of which there is a huge direct line. [[Shows the picture.]] I'm showing it to see what it's all about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u175	We've all seen it, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u176	The question is: who accepted and put this canvas into service, and shouldn't he be immediately fired, along with his superior, to show that such negligence is not tolerated? Why close roads and highways just when it is expected to be the busiest in the summer season? Why are they slow and not three shifts, using 24-hour hours, as in other European countries, such busy sections? I demand the immediate removal of the responsible persons and their replacement with more competent, even if necessary, companies from abroad. I'm going to use the fact that you're here because I haven't been able to ask one of the ministers my question for three months. When the time comes to ask him, the situation may have changed for this question that I intend to ask. Since you raised the issue a few days ago that it is becoming more dangerous, the victims on the roads are increasing dangerously, it is extremely important for me to know: will corruption stop in the D.I.A., because there is a whole system for selling driver's licenses to illiterate...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u177	Mr. Binev, such a question yesterday, today I correctly announced it, you are headed to Minister Moskovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u178	Since Mrs. Pavlova brought this up...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u179	Just stick to the question you have submitted in writing, which is in today's parliamentary control programme. Mr. Moskovski will answer your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u180	If you had left me, I would have apologized to Mrs. Pavlova, as it is really incorrect of me to ask a question that is not addressed to her, but since she raised the subject, it would be extremely important for me to ask him this question because she is a colleague of hers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u181	We are not under blitz-control, Mr. Binev "consider the procedural rules for control." Develop and complete the question you have asked in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u182	These are my two questions to the esteemed Minister. I believe that our duty as MPs is when there are questions and they cannot be asked to the person who does not come to find a way to be asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u183	I don't share your thinking. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, first a very important clarification of your first sub-question regarding the road, which is to the village of Cold spring and ladder, which you showed and which we all saw. Fortunately this time it was not put into service. This time it has not been approved and for this time there is no authorisation for use and Act 16. This time it is from the municipal road network and is managed by the municipality of Trun respectively. The Municipality of Trun is the one that issued a building permit for its construction and repair in 2012. And to this day, my check is literally from today, in the bodies of the DNC, which are responsible for the commissioning of such types of projects, including roads, albeit municipal, there is no request for commissioning and permission to use this road, so this time it is obviously still being used without the permission and final authorisation, without having carried out an admission commission on the repair activities carried out on it. As regards the activities carried out by the municipality as a responsibility, the main architect issued the building permit. He, under the law, must have selected independent construction supervision to monitor the repair work of this road, which is obliged to issue Act 14 and Act 15 for the completion of these activities and to submit them to the DNC. This hasn't been done yet. We expect the municipality of Trun to inform us of the actions it has taken. Meanwhile, as you must have seen, this pillar has been removed from the road with the power distribution company, whose property is this pillar. Your second question with regard to repairs, I cannot accept what you have formulated, let's call it "critical," for two reasons. The active summer season is beginning and because you have touched on the topic of the safety of the movement. Unfortunately, for the number of victims on the roads Bulgaria gives, the analysis shows that they are in the biggest traffic. The biggest traffic accidents are precisely between July and August. This is the reason why we have done our best as soon as we have secured the funding to start repairs, to make the schedule in a way that will end on July 1st as far as possible, and we will continue the repairs in September, precisely so that we do not make it any more difficult, anyway, the intensive traffic that we expect in July and August. You're right, there's traffic. You're right, there are difficulties in the movement, but there is no way that when repairs are being made, there will be none. There's an alarm. There are given bypass routes, and despite the difficulties I rely on, I trust the understanding of all travelers because there is no way. It's construction season. Now the repairs are being done. Companies work on more shifts, but if we work on a 24-hour regime, then you know, the value of these repairs would increase dramatically, and we have limited resources, so within the resources, within the framework of the conditions the companies work both Saturday and Sunday and on 1 July we will open for movement this section of 50 km on the Trakiya highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u185	You have the opportunity to reply, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u186	Thank you, Madam Secretary. It is perfectly normal at the time when this issue was deposited, in these deadlines, as this had a very broad response, to have taken some measures. My question can be further supplemented by the following two, which are extremely important. As you know, this has been photographed by people who have gone down this road, which means that he has been put into service officially or has not been put into service officially, he has actually been used as a road. This requires, by the way, very urgently, that there be at least some action to prevent such things from happening before a certain route is officially put into service, because this could create serious problems, not to mention that there may be casualties. That's on this point, so we really need to see here, to consider if it's really possible for someone to use, to open a certain path on their own, not waiting for any warrant from your ministry. That's on the first question. On the second floor, I do not dispute that repairs must be made. On the contrary, we all know that there are sections out there that are just really like after war and need to be repaired as quickly as possible. I respect that you have gone as quickly as possible after settling the finances to launch this process. My remark is more about the speed with which this happens. I know that night jobs are really much more expensive, but we all know that sometimes cheap comes out a lot more expensive. And this can sometimes be paid with the cost of people's lives, as I really must tell you that it is extremely tense along the way, especially we are talking about highway. I have to tell you that I attended a few of these events with my own eyes when things went by. Thank you and really accept my question not as a criticism, but as an experience in any way together to think about how we can solve these problems. Thank you. I wish you good luck. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u187	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Mrs. Secretary, the doppelganger? You won't use it. We move on to Mr. Rumen Yonchev's question about: when drawing up birth certificates for Bulgarian citizens born outside the Republic of Bulgaria. We're listening, Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, the question I'm asking you probably doesn't surprise you. You have answered this question several times already in the media, as far as I can see, but indeed the Bulgarian community abroad is quite surprised over the past few years, when despite the attempts of Bulgarian citizens who remove birth certificates abroad for their children, they come here to give them a father's name and a Bulgarian birth certificate, fail. Indeed, the practice in your ministry and civil services is quite controversial. Until 2011, this happened without problems, then there was an amendment to the law that justified the refusal to enter fathers' names in birth certificates. However, careful analysis of the text, which has been modified, shows that there is really no material change in this sense, and this concludes that the law has been applied in two different ways in two different periods. However, the question remains: why does the office of GRAO refuse to now record the father names of Bulgarian citizens born abroad? Of course, the justification for a double identity concern is not particularly justified, because apart from the name, every citizen has a lot of other props on the registration card that identify it clearly enough. Not to mention that we have been collecting biometric data for five years, so there is no practical basis for this refusal. There's not a substantial legal basis either, because it wasn't there before. However, thousands of Bulgarian children, tens of thousands who are born abroad, are currently unable to bear the names of their fathers. My question is: how long will this be like this? Is it possible to change the practice without having to change the current legal framework? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u189	Thank you, Mr. Yonchev. For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u190	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yonchev, as you rightly pointed out, this question was repeatedly raised by both the media and the Ombudsman, who received an answer from me. He was uploaded to the Ministry's website to gain access to him all interested. Once again, I answer to you and to all Members of the National Assembly. The first thing we need to clarify is that the Law on Civil Registration of 1999 currently has no significant changes which create prerequisites for a change in the practice that the persons responsible for the registration of newborn children, the granting of EGN and their entry in the register of the national database of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here we have to note an important element in this system of the municipality of residence, the municipality of birth of the person concerned, the mayor of the municipality through his structure are those who have a commitment to the entry of newborn children in the register. At this point, the practice has not changed. The amendments to the Law were made in order to clarify order. If you have specific examples, specific alerts for officials in certain settlements that do not comply with this order or have a practice other than normal, I ask you to refer to me, so that we, through the authorities of the CAO, who monitor this process, take appropriate action, issue once more specific and additional instructions for the person concerned, or take action to bring the mayor to justice. With regard to children born abroad. Very often this is the practice I am familiar with at least at the moment, from the data I have, children born abroad receive two names. They get ID and have the right to dual citizenship. If a child born in a particular country has two names and an identity card or passport by birth in another different country from the Republic of Bulgaria, there is no automatic way here in Bulgaria to receive a father's name. This is because it must have an absolute identity of the documents issued in the Bulgarian ID card, along with his ID card from the other country, when he has dual citizenship in order to have an identity in the names. What are the hypotheses for adding respectively a father's name. Adding a father's name, adding a name or changing names is a court order. At least at the moment these are the requirements of the Civil Registration Act. Because you asked me, can we not change the law? No, that can only happen in court right now. If the Law is changed, then the CSO services will be able to make these changes in a professional capacity. Another very important element and one of the cases that we have encountered are children for whom the father is not identified, but only the mother. In these cases, you know that under the Civil Registration Act, the so-called father's name is formed on behalf of the mother, or under the consent of the father of the mother of that child, but again under the established order, so there is no way in a professional way to allow the formation of another kind of father's name or the addition of a father's name if the original identity document of the child or of the person does not appear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u191	The line is Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u192	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Pavlova, I was trying to stress that the practice of GRAO was different in the years, i.e. there were years before 2011, when fathers' names were entered under the same Law. This is particularly disturbing for Bulgarian citizens abroad who are returning here with the next child and can not enter the father's name on it, so the practice is definitely contradictory and maybe a legal change is needed. I have taken action to draw up a bill of change and rely on your support. Given that about 30% of the children of Bulgaria are already born abroad, Bulgarians are born abroad, it is imperative that we maintain the tradition of naming our children. As a father, I cannot fail to report that every Bulgarian father has the right and pride to put his name as his father's name. Once again, I rely on your support for this amendment to the Law to be adopted quickly and to resolve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u193	Thank you. He won't use the minister's ass. [[Applause from the BDZ.]] We move on to Georgi Gokov's question about the need for a major repair of a second-class section of the second-class road II We're listening, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my question is entirely in your competence and refers to the section of Polish Gradets, which is in tragically bad condition in the municipality of Radnevo, Stara Zagora. This time it is part of the international road Ruse, which is why it is particularly busy. Hundreds of cars and heavy goods vehicles, buses traveling to Turkey and the Middle East are passing through the station 24/7. Although it is part of the country's second-class road network, its performance is extremely impaired. As a result of the heavy load, the road surface is completely broken The poor condition of the road has caused dozens of disasters that have caused significant material damage, fortunately, so far without casualties. Over the past few years, several signals have been sent to the Regional Administration "Stara Zagora," the Road Management " Stara Zagora," the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, parliamentary questions have been asked, but there are currently no such measures taken to resolve the issue. During this winter, and also during the previous, but especially during the last heavy rain and snowfalls and the all-season ruin of this road because of the heavy loading of the road create almost daily critical situations and endanger the safety of road users, and also of the people living in the settlements in this area, and especially of the people in the village of Polski Gradets. In this regard, Madam Minister, my question to you is as follows: what are the opportunities to make a major repair on the second-class road II Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u195	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I am aware of the condition of the road in Radnevo municipality. The most critical section of this road is precisely the section from Polski Gradets to the village of Glavan, as it has not been repaired for more than 25 years and this is why its operational state is extremely unsatisfactory. And in recent years, as well as this year, within the framework of the budget available to the Road Agency, we have foreseen patching up of sections of this road, as the funds needed for the overall solution of the problem, the overall repair and bringing the road to a good operational state are a huge resource. In the case of an average calculation, there shall be a minimum of 650 thousand. lv. of sq. m for this type of severely compromised stretches. We all know there is a patch on a patch and all the patches on top when heavy traffic passes or after winter season is reopened, so the necessary funds for this 35km stretch exceed 20 million. lv. In the readings we have. We don't have a detailed technical project. These are indicative values to which we value. This is the reason why I cannot, unfortunately, give a positive answer that we will solve the whole, lasting, with a major repair of the road this year, due to the extremely limited budget available to the Road Agency. However, I can confirm that we are predicting the heaviest stretches of this road. About 1.7 km from the section that is in the regulation of Polish Gradec, you know, there the speed is limited due to the poor condition of the pavement and road restraint is reduced the speed on it. There we try to solve the problem of separate patch patching, but, again, it is palatial, it is temporary, it is not effective because a patch on a patch is clear that it is not effective. This project is planned for next year in the design budget. After providing, of course, this significant financial resource, which I mentioned, we will only then be able to talk about a complete major renovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u197	A line? Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u198	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, my question is banal and the answer too. The question is devoid of originality. Why am I saying this? Because such questions about broken roads and opportunities for major repairs of first-class, second-class, third-class, and on highways can be asked hundreds in Bulgaria. I came across a reference by the Road Infrastructure Agency, which appreciates the state of the Republican road network of highways, I, II, III-class roads along a three-speed scale, good, medium and poor condition. It notes that for the year 2013 the Commission adopted a decision to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 39,6% of the roads are in good quality, taking into account a decrease by nearly a percentage of the previous year. The reference is from 2013, but I am sure that the trend for reducing the percentage of roads with good condition, good quality of pavement has remained in 2014, and I suppose that is the case in 2015. Madam Minister, the roads in Bulgaria are breaking down and depreciating faster than we have managed to repair them, although the construction and maintenance of good infrastructure, particularly on the road network, is one of the priorities of all governments in recent years, including your government. Madam Minister, given the delay in giving me an answer to the question, I thought you'd at least please me that the healing has begun, but alas, it has not begun. I've been talking to the people from these settlements. I can't say I'm satisfied with the answer, because the situation there is unbearable. You know that better than I do. I know the enormous resources that are needed, but we need to answer something for these people. What am I supposed to do, tell them to plant some plants in these holes?! I don't know what to do. Otherwise, I believe that the repair of this section of the road cannot be delayed anymore and must be carried out within this year. You, on your part, must do everything you can to at least what you are saying is patching up, to happen in the summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u199	You're not gonna use the back. The following is a question from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev concerning the construction works of the road hub. "Slivnitsa ".. part of the construction of SOC..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u200	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! The construction of the Sofia Ring Road is extremely important, as it is the connection between the highway and the border control post of Calotina with the highways of Hemus and Trakia. It will lead to the removal of the flow from travelers and will ease the intensity of the movement from and to Western Europe. In this regard, as with the upcoming summer season, increased traffic is expected of returning gastrebeiters to the Republic of Turkey, which, with the fact of continuing construction of the road node at the entrance of Sofia, will cause huge congestion, which is a serious problem at the moment. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: when will the capital ring road be put into operation? Will there be sanctions for delayed construction and who will bear them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u201	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u202	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kovachev, the construction of the continuation of the highway and the connection with the Sofia direction, more commonly known as Sofia Ring Road "West Rainbow" is, as you know, in phase 1 of a project funded by the Operational Programme "Transport 2007" 2013. The contract was concluded in 2012. Its value is almost 48 million. lv. At present, construction works on the construction of this new section have been completed at almost 70%. The main part of the route from this ring road is almost complete and is currently actively working on the road node, which you are talking about on Blvd. This is a complex facility, a multi-level road node, which can provide non-conflict movement in all directions in this extremely busy area. What's the reason you're working on this road node and this part of the road? The reason is that in addition to the very long process of alienating the terrains, there was also archaeology that was revealed in the road node section. The archaeology ended on May 21st, and only then, really two weeks ago, could the builder fully enter the route. All those who have passed by and who are passing through there, we remember that there was literally a few months ago there was an old house that was not pushed around and which surrounded us, travelers on the surrounding routes at the moment, and builders, as there were long disputes on the terrain, on the house. It has finally been removed and we already have full access to the builder's work. We have an updated schedule of the builder who started work on May 22nd. He made a commitment before us to ease traffic and traffic, to focus his efforts at the moment on the road node, creating a temporary movement organization to be launched in August, when traffic is most intense, continuing with the other finishing works, according to the contract. The deadline for this project is 31 October this year. This will be the final deadline for the complete completion and commissioning, and the movement with the temporary organisation of the circular movement of this intersection I hope we will release it in August, so that we can at least partially ease traffic in this direction, especially in the direction of Sofia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u203	The line, Mr. Kovachev. You won't use it. Question of the National Representative Petar Kadiev regarding the construction of road node lighting at km 102+520 from the highway of Maritsa.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, at the end of May I received a complaint from the Municipality of Svilengrad concerning the construction of the lighting of a road node to km 102+520 on the highway of Maritsa. For the sections of the highway, which are financed by the funds of the European funds, lighting is provided for all nodes of the highway. This is a mandatory requirement for compliance with the rules and safety standards of road equipment. For the section of the highway, which will be realized by state means, road node 102+520, representing an approach to the city of Svilengrad, in connection with the international road E-80, the lighting restraint is not planned. Much of the traffic on one of the country's main international roads passes through it. If it is not secured by lighting according to European standards for this class of roads, there are prerequisites for accidents and the citizens of Svilengrad Municipality are harmed. My question is: is there a double standard in the construction of the large-scale infrastructure project? Are there prerequisites for accidents in one of the busiest roads in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u205	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u206	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadiev, the construction of the Maritsa Highway has long started a project in the 1980s. I am pleased that the saga of building this long-awaited, desirable and, above all, extremely necessary stretch to overcome heavy transit traffic across our country will end very soon. A large part of this highway is almost completely complete. On this highway, 50 miles is a fact. The section of Lot 2 and the connection of the highway to Dimitrovgrad, to the border, including those sections, whose construction was started in the 1980s, with only left canvas, right canvas, and partial completion. It is an indisputable fact that these sections of the highway, which are built with funds from the European funds, allow and include in their projects the construction of lighting of the major road nodes along its first lot, which is the connection of the highway "Trakiya" with Dimitrovgrad, and the second lot from Dimitrovgrad to the border. The precinct you're talking about is the precinct at Pistrogor and the overpass over there. Such lighting is not provided there as its construction was designed in 2000. Then according to the design standards and under the contract concluded, such lighting is not foreseen. For your information, I would like to say that building this type of lighting is an expensive pleasure, as this type of lighting costs about 1 to 3 million. lv. Subsequently, the monthly bills that we will have to pay for electricity if we build lighting on all the road nodes amount to a grand sum of $25,000. lv. is the average amount for such a circular movement: the monthly account multiplied by 12 months and the other road nodes. Only the highways of Maritsa and Struma over 1 million will cost us our lighting bills. I want to tell you that we have studied the experience in both Germany and Austria. In these countries, too, do not light all circular movements, all road nodes on the highways, as this is an expensive pleasure, and we, unfortunately, are not rich enough to be able to build such facilities. The fact is, you're right, not all circular movements we have lighting, on this road node we don't have either, but the reason is the financial resources needed for this. At the moment, there is no budget for this construction at the Road Agency, so I cannot give the positive answer that I would like to give. I hope that when we change the overall system of paying for the use of roads, when it becomes fairer, when those who travel the most, who are ruining the roads the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, and the most, the transit and transit traffic, pay much more and a much fairer price on the principle of toll toll, this will increase revenue in the budget. We will be able to change the approach by which we reinvest the revenue collected in construction, repair, maintenance, including the construction of such equipment, lighting systems and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u207	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, dear Minister. I think eventually the citizens of Svilengrad received an answer. Most importantly, you have the ambition to do so no matter when. When there's ambition, ambition and desire to make it happen, I think it's going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u209	There's still money to be there, and it'll be soon in time. A hole? You won't use it. We move on to Mr. Zhelyo Boychev's question about the additional funds of up to 100 million for the highway of Trakia. We're listening, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u210	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Minister, we promised you and I would talk about highways. They concern a lot of Bulgarian citizens, and I see that they are also at the top of the list. You are constantly showing with your activity everything that is being done or is about to be done in the construction and maintenance of the motorways in Bulgaria. My question is this: last year, Mr Oresharski's government, the unloved government, announced a public tender procedure for maintaining and repairing the most compromised sections of the highways of Trakia and Hemus. I remind you that at that time funding was envisaged to take place under the Programme "Transit Roads V ". You know that 65% of this funding is provided by the European Investment Bank and the other 35% from the national budget. The procedure has entered several stages. The change of government led to the fact that you suspended this procedure with the argument that there was no money for it. A few months later, the Council of Ministers, led by Mr. Borisov, with Decree No 95 of 17 April, decided to update the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works by up to 100 million for the immediate repair of the motorways of Maritsa. My specific question is: how and by what means, on the basis of what criteria have been chosen or are the performers to be selected to carry out this activity? What is the volume of work that you plan to do and the time limit for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u211	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u212	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Boychev, as you know, by a decree of the Council of Ministers, the questions of up to 100 million were provided to carry out repairs on the motorways of the town of Maritsa and Hemus, but on the highways of Trakia and Hemus. To make a statement, according to the decree, there was a very clear description of which kilometers from the two motorways of the oldest and compromised divisions to be repaired. Since you've paralleled what the Oresharski government has done, this parallel is good. I don't have all the numbers in front of me, but I remember what they did. Two important details to be precise in terms or as fashionable as it is to say to be exact. Firstly, the order announced by the Oresharski government was declared less than a number of miles and much more money than these predict. Secondly, you said that 50% of the funds envisaged were under the European Investment Bank. Yes, it is, but it is not free funding, it is the money from the loan that Bulgaria has under the Programme Transit Roads V The contract for the selection of a contractor, who in the next two years to do this repair, was announced. As you can see, including all of you, including the morning of parliamentary control in the Chamber, there is extreme tension in you If those sections were closed for two years, I can't imagine what it would have been like then. So this is also an argument in the direction of why we changed the approach. We have taken advantage of the possibility and improved revenue base of the state budget that these funds will be granted to us from the state budget and within the framework of the contracts that the state has concluded for the current renovation and maintenance of four-year contracts, with supporting companies that have a commitment to carry out current and preventive road repairs other than winter maintenance, to take advantage of these existing contracts and to entrust to the companies that have concluded contracts after an open tender procedure have been concluded so that they can implement these contracts within the shortest possible time, making, you know, a timetable that has been published, for separate sections in chess distribution. To all these heavier and most compromised sections as an addition to the very sections of the highway we added three Viaducts to be also repaired as their condition was critical. All this was necessary because of this you know, after the winter period a lot of holes opened, because 30 years have not been repaired these stretches of patch patch. After this winter they opened in a way that already threatened the movement and the speed of these viaducts was reduced to 90 km, were partially closed. We really had to add the Viaducts urgently. I am glad that we were able to fit into the budget not only to repair 80 km from the highways themselves, but also to add several facilities and viaducts to this amount, which reduced the repair time. We have significantly reduced the budget we are investing in this, and I hope we are watching closely for the quality, for all of this to end in good quality. You know, several times already we had to insist that the performers remove some of the asphalt positions as it did not meet the requirements. Now they also removed some of the insulation of one of these bridges, which proves and shows the effort to carry out serious quality control. On July 1st, the first of these ready-made sections are a very large part, will be released without the viaducts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u213	The line, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u214	Thank you, Madam President. You're getting better and better, Madam Minister, in answering these kinds of questions. We all want and I really want you to make as many highways as possible, but make them quality and make it clear to Bulgarian citizens and at what cost they are met. Unfortunately, I will not agree with what you have completed on the quality and your insistence on quality implementation of the roads. Unfortunately, we are often witnessing a bad performance. This will be the subject of questions from now on. My specific question, Mrs. Pavlova, was: who are the companies and how are they chosen, how are they chosen? From what I have heard from you, I have not been able to understand the method and what are the criteria by which these companies have been selected? You claim that you will carry out these repairs for lower prices than the terminated tender until now. I will take advantage of my right and make a written question to you, from which I will ask a comparison and comparison of the unit prices for these activities that are being carried out at the moment and I will ask, of course, who are the companies that carry out these activities, because I think we owe it to the Bulgarian citizens. I remind you that it is a matter of a decree of the Council of Ministers that gives up to 100 million funds and, at the very least, what we need to do is all that is being done in these activities, in the way of spending this money, to become extremely public and extremely clear. My question is who will carry out the independent construction control to ensure the quality and quantity of the work carried out on these activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u215	A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Boychev, because you are trying to make some suggestions, I reply a second time to make sure that you have heard me an open tender procedure is the one implemented under the Public Procurement Act of the Agency in the selection of companies to carry out the 4-year winter maintenance process, ongoing repair and preventive repair of the road network. So the companies that are working on these repairs are several along the highway of Trakiya...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The same company has a commitment and concluded a contract after an open tender for the maintenance of the Motorway "Hemus" in the section from Sofia to Yablanitsa. This is also the company that performs these repair activities on the highway. With regard to the section of the Motorway "Hemus" in the section from Shumen to Varna, the chosen company, which will be again with a 4-year contract, again as a result of an open tender procedure under the Public Procurement Act, is the one that will start the renovations from September 1st, because, as I said, we will stop in July and August with the repairs, it is no longer state, you know that many years ago the company has been detained. So these are the companies that perform their duties. Of course, they have the possibility of part of the activities to hire suppliers to deliver materials and to carry out part of the activities. You have the right, within the framework of parliamentary written control, to receive detailed information on the implementation of all these specific activities that you have asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u217	Thank you. Question of the National Representative Dora Yankova on repair and rehabilitation of the third-class state road between Smolyan Municipality and Banite municipality. [[Replications between the MPs Zhelyo Boychev and Stanislav Ivanov.]] Colleagues, please, this is not the question of Tsankov Stone!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u218	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! The government's programme, other than highways, first-class and second-class roads, also provides care for third-class roads. You know very well my electoral district, Smolyanski, above all on wheels and a second-class one. The inter-communal third-class roads are a policy under crisis and economic conditions in support of development municipalities. My current question about the rehabilitation of the third-class road 863 between the municipality of Smolyan and the municipality of Banite concerns two municipalities and perhaps three districts. The collection: the wonderful municipality of Banite - Smolyan, the eastern part of Smolyan and the very road starts as a deviation from the second-class road, passes through Sokolovtsi, Momchilovtsi, Kutella, Vievo, Slavenovo, Petkovo, Malka Arda, Oryahovets, Banite and hence is the main, factual and final point for the deviation of two other third-class roads. For the municipality of Banite itself this time to be good, modern and comfortable, and he is now seriously compromised in many places, means the development of balneotherapy, tourism, activities with which people earn their living. That is, if the government decides to make a policy, it means to build the main key infrastructure projects. From previous questions that I have asked to you and from what I've been following as an activity of the Agency's government, Road Infrastructure and your personal, I've found no financial resources so far. And please tell me what is scheduled for this year for this time?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u219	Minister Pavlova for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u220	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Yankova! Yes, Smolyan region is the area that has this specificity that there is no different transport from the road, there are no railways there, so we rely entirely on personal road infrastructure. You know, it is with the efforts of both the state budget and cross-border cooperation programmes and the transit 5 programme that have targeted investments in recent years, and serious road repairs have been made. Only those that have been completed at the moment are worth more than 50 million. BGN, and we finish this year the main road, which has suffered numerous landslides and collapses, which led to additional activities on it, namely the connection Asenovgrad Smolyan, as well as the roads that were repaired Chepelare Sokolovtsi, Sokolovtsi Smolyan, Smolyan Srednogortsi, and Rudozem the border with Greece. These are all roadblocks that have been renovated in the past years. Unfortunately, it is precisely the road we are talking about today But if we have to do an analysis, and even a short time ago, the Road Agency is doing an analysis of the entire road Republican network, its state, prioritizing it, of course, from highways, first-class, second-class and third-class roads The repair of these 11 kilometers, which are the worst, requires a serious financial resource, and overall the sections of the whole road, if combined, are more than 20 km. The required values are over 9 million. lv. We don't have that kind of money in the budget, you know that. That is why, what we are predicting are once again activities of ongoing repair and partial patching of the road network, once again prioritizing the roads in the area of those on which there is the greatest traffic. This is the reason why you do not see in our plans activities for this time, but I hope that in the coming years, as I have already mentioned, when improving and increasing the amount of funds we receive from using the roads and changing the system for fairer payment, this will give us more attention to the third-class roads, which are also in the most unsatisfactory state: of 20,000. km of Republican roads over 11,000. are the third graders. They need investment the most, they're the biggest as miles of roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u221	Line, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u222	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! I can't be comfortable with the answer you gave, and you probably won't get involved with a line saying that the government doesn't have any resources. Yes, according to the Budget Act and on what I am following, there are opportunities in perspective for Bulgaria. "Greece in planning, there you are actually co-chairs with the Greek colleague in Thessaloniki. A program for the Rhodopes is announced, but next year should be the program 2017. Again, it is extremely important, it is not much money, between two municipalities, and contacting two more areas to find this resource. During the year, I demand that you think, moreover, that I hold in my hands a decree of the Council of Ministers on 19 June. On June 17th at the Council of Ministers, you decided to distribute 55 million. Of these 55 million you give ten municipalities funds of about 25 million for Sofia Municipality, and 10 million for other nine municipalities, undoubtedly well, including my constituency. I hope that the government will release and distribute more resources by the end of the year. My insistent request to you is: put as one of the priorities the modernisation of the third-class road infrastructure between Banite and Smolyan, because yes, on Lot 27 others will be compensated, the second-class road you have committed, I have deep concerns, but on October 18 I will ask you whether it will be implemented. The roads for Smolyan region for my election area are economics, politics, development. And until the funding programme comes in 2017 for other policies to be related to economic development, the roads now give what is the support of business and people. So once again, I strongly turn around: look for a resource for this time, it is extremely important.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. You're running out of time. A hole? You won't use it. Now again Mrs. Yankova, but with a question about the construction of the roundabout of the second-class road Asenovgrad, Smolyan, in the features of the town. Chepelare.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u224	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, as I have said, the investment programme of the government provides for the construction of highways and second-class roads in this case the ring road of Chepelare appears as a continuation of the second-class road Asenovgrad Smolyan. Last year, the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency provided that it would separate from the Programme Transit Roads 5 and 10 and 5 million. euros for the ring road, 4 km new, on the city. Chepelare. You certainly know what Chepelare is. It is a wonderful village, a municipality with modern tourism.All year round, during the four seasons, center of tourism and above all with winter accent. In parallel, this time provides for one removal of traffic outside the centre so that tourism can actually be tourism and the city can develop. Along with this it is important for the nine other municipalities, it is important for the national resort Pamporovo. It's important, we've talked to you, life-saving, economical axis. Ten years they've been talking about this ringtrack. I understand that the new management of the Road Infrastructure Agency has rearranged the priorities for the extension of the Programme "Transit Roads 5" and has removed this particular four kilometers of new path from the Programme. My concern is great and please inform the citizens of Chepelare and the Rhodopes why this happened?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u225	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u226	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, as we have already mentioned, repairing and bringing to a good operational state of the road Asenovgrad is important to us. It shall be implemented within the framework of the Transit Roads Programme. I sincerely hope that the contractor will carry out his schedule as presented to us and will complete his repairs on 18 October, as is the term of the contract. This contract, as well as the tour of Chepelare, which you are talking about, were part of the priority projects to be financed along the lines of the Programme for Transit Roads 5, which is co-financed by a loan from the European Investment Bank. I can confirm that this loan and the agreement cannot be extended any longer and it ends 2016. This is also the reason, after an analysis of all projects, what is their level of readiness, what is their degree of completion of those who are ongoing, including, by analysing those who have been envisaged to be further included and re-enacted under this programme, have been revised. They are revised for two reasons: analyzing, as Chepelare's tour is not the only road proposed for new sites to be included in the 2015-2016 Transit Roads Programme, but an analysis of several criteria is being carried out. First criterion - whether there is a finished technical project for the project concerned, second criterion - whether there are completed alienation procedures, whether there is available archaeology and whether the implementation period required for the site concerned is within the deadline for the implementation of the projects under the Programme Transitical Roads 5. Since Chepelare's tour, to my great regret, does not meet these criteria, in the sense of having a positive response to all of them, this was the reason this time last year to be removed from the list of additional new objects to be attached to existing ones. Another argument in that direction. Yes, for many years there has been talk about the tour of Chepelare, but you know better than I do the complex structure of the mountain region in which this perimeter of the town should be built. Chepelare. This provides for a facility that was designed and for which, as you said, there was a procedure which took 4 km and its VAT value was 25 million. lv. Of course, there is the question: is it economically justified to invest for 4 kilometers around 25 million. lv. from the state budget? This is also a question that needs to be looked at. That means we don't have it. We don't have them because, as I said, this project has not completed the alienation activities and the deadline for its implementation exceeds 2016. The end of the funding. This is the reason why the procedure has not been completed and a contractor has not been selected, because you know that if we sign a contract and choose a contractor, even in the meantime, to complete the estrangement procedures and it exceeds the duration of the loan agreement, we will need more funds from the state budget. Twenty-five million is a significant and enormous amount that is needed. Now, you just appealed for the Baths, you need to think about which one to invest in first. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In Chepelare's lap, 25 million for four kilometers, or 25 kilometers, the way to the Baths, for which the value is still 9 million, we have to adjust, prioritize. When you have some money, you have to decide exactly what it is and what is more important to invest it in. I hope that our targeted investment programme in this region will also help us resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u227	Line, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u228	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, so far I've understood a few things, perhaps the people of Chepelare. Lack and delay of estrangement procedures by the municipality. I thought three, four years was enough to do so far. Too bad, that was one of the reasons. Secondly, my information is that there was an elected contractor Yeah, there's no way to change that amount. My great concern is that the new management of the Road Infrastructure Agency has apparently estimated that the company has no capacity, that there are no alienation procedures and that the funds that were in the Transit Roads 5. That's not good news for Chepelare. That means they'll wait, they'll keep waiting. I hope with your business and in the priorities you need to put through various financial instruments and mechanisms, we do not oppose municipalities and policies in the Rhodopes. Is it more important to the Baths or Chepelare? For me it is important for both, because one is the main axis, the second-class, the other is the economy and development of two municipalities. As a member of parliament, I am obliged to ask, to want municipalities to develop and certainly you to do so. Therefore, once again, I insist: review these policies and seek financial resources for Chepelare's ring road. This is extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u229	You won't use the hole. Last question to you, Madam Minister, from MP Philip Popov about building a bridge in the municipality of Belogradchik, village of Salash.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u230	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! My question to you is regarding the construction of a bridge in the municipality of Belogradchik, the village of Salash. It is obvious that the financing of the started construction of the site Izvor Road has been suspended..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The provider of the site is the Road Infrastructure Agency. Closed for crossing is the main street of the village of Salash due to the destruction of the bridge. My question to you is: when is the construction of the destroyed bridge envisaged and the restoration of this important for the municipality and the village infrastructure site? I'm also talking about the road because it's part of the project to build the Salash crossing. My specific question is, when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u231	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u232	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Popov! The bridge of the village of Salas is part of the activities that are provided for in the repair of the road Archar. On 7 February 2014, a decree of the Council of Ministers granted 2 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. However, there is an important nuance that we need to note, which, I suppose you know, but you did not mention that when preparing and adopting this decree for the section of this road, it is not precisely those miles..... from km 45 to km 50, as a section in which construction and repair activities must be carried out, including the repair of the bridge. This was the reason why construction and installation activities were not commissioned for a long time. They did not start in 2014. In the ministry then, the minister and the cabinet of service to the regular minister there is a request and a request to take urgent measures, the decree of the Council of Ministers to be amended so that this most critical section, including the bridge of the village of Salas, can be repaired and the activities under them can be assigned. In the meantime, this, again, has been done, and only on 1 December 2014, do we have a signed act 10, which has stopped these activities under winter conditions. Of that two million. Five hundred thousand is spent one million. It paid an advance and partially paid off the road repair activities, after which in winter conditions the contractor asked to stop these repair activities. Unfortunately, in the framework of the budget for this year, there is no funding for this site, as it was financed under the decree of the Council of Ministers, which has its annual duration and expired in December last year. This ended and ended the financial resource that was available. Since the contractor was apparently entrusted well later and failed to cope with the road repairs, this is the reason why there are currently no assigned activities in its overall repair. The Road Infrastructure Agency is aware of the condition and the missing bridge, which was destroyed at the village of Salash, and on June 16th entrusted with just over 200 thousand. lv. from the budget of the Road Agency activities for the repair of the bridge in the village of Salas, so that the bridge will be repaired and restored so that, as you rightly said, we can restore this injustice and people have a bridge on which to cross. The bridge was awarded on 16 June 2015, and in the coming months it will be completed at least. For the road and for the rest of the districts, we do not have funding, so at this stage we will focus our efforts only on the bridge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u233	The line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u234	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the value of the contract for construction works is 3 million. Eight hundred and BGN 968. 27 s. I'm talking about the Izvor road, from 45 km to the 50th. Of these, nearly 800 thousand have been paid. lv. and started construction and construction work. The resuscitation of the economy of this region came precisely from the establishment of this facility. It is obvious that for the area, for the people of Belogradchik, Salash, Tower, Ruzhentsi, Chuprene, Bregovo are not important the reasons why this does not happen. They have a right in this poorest corner of the Northwest, where people are jumping out of poverty, to make things happen. People see what happens in other parts of Bulgaria, for which there is money. For the Northwest the transport programme was terminated, the construction of the four-band road, customs were exported from Vidin. Mr. Mikov mentioned the Tower Road, and what happens in Salash and a number of other injustices that were never fixed. There wasn't even an attempt to do anything about this region. I believe that your government will focus the country's focus on a policy that the Prime Minister said in his interview for more investments in the Northwest because it owes to the Northwest, precisely to such small and poor regions. For us there is no division of people into large regions, small regions, highways and secondary roads, of bridges that are of important infrastructure importance and those that are not of such important infrastructure importance, according to the government. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President. It is difficult to explain to the people of Salash that despite the beginning of the construction of the crossing and the road to it, it is currently suspended and the government does not foresee any funds and finances for its completion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u235	You won't use the hole. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Colleagues, there are two declarations, with the time for which we should extend parliamentary control, which is why we will now hear one question and one question to Minister Tanev, who is correctly waiting for his order. The first will be asked by the people representative Borislav Iglev about the situation at the Economic Academy of the Republic of Bulgaria Dimitar Tsenov in Svishtov and the candidate campaign. Here you go, Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u236	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! On May 28th was held the election of Rector of the Economic Academy "Dimitar Tsenov" in Svishtov. Professor was elected Rector of the Higher School. Teodora Dimitrova. Then a scandal broke out, as the order to convene the General Assembly was appealed by an initiative committee, which raised the candidacy of another candidate. Ivan Marchevski. Although the court has not ruled on the legality of the General Assembly, the choice has been made. The recommendations of the Ministry of Education are also to postpone the meeting until the court has ruled. The choice of prof. Teodora Dimitrova was declared illegitimate by some of the lecturers of the Industrial Academy. They challenge the legitimacy of the General Assembly, which held the election because they believe that pensioners, former students and PhD students were present in it. Then you, Minister Tanev, appoint a temporary Rector who is entitled within 6 months to be Rector. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: is there a threat to fail the candidate campaign and is it possible to announce a year for admission of students? Who has the right to sign the students' diplomas until the court's decision is made so that their re-issue will not be imposed later, whichever precedent has already occurred? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u237	For an answer, Minister Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u238	Dear President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Iglev! The case with the Industrial Academy of Dimitar Tsenov in Svishtov is old. There's been a lot of trouble there for a long time. It is not clear why in the coming years the Council of Ministers has not dealt with it, despite the many different signals. Very serious public attention has been raised for this case not only within Svishtov. The Svishtov public is very excited, the entire academic community in Bulgaria too, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, even though it is not a school. There is hardly anyone in this country who hasn't dealt with what has been heard for years about this Academy, which is old and with very good traditions. We all want things to calm down there, and we want her to take this place as soon as possible at this respect, respect and quality that she has and which is being questioned not now. In reply to your question, I inform you that the Ministry shares your concern about the smooth running of the candidate campaign, which is why on 17 June 2015 I sent a letter to the temporary acting Rector, in which I asked him until 24 June, two days ago, to inform us what measures have been taken in this regard. He personally came and brought these answers in writing. In the answer received from the university, we are assured that the necessary organization for the smooth running of the candidate campaign was established at the Industrial Academy. Documents for participation shall be submitted on site at the candidate center in Svishtov, as well as at the offices of the Academy in the country and also online. The final exam session is due on 27 June and the results of the first ranking are expected on 13 July. The Rector has informed us that up to now, the number of candidates who have already submitted documents for participation in the ranking is 550. With regard to the declaration of zero admission at the Industrial Academy of Economics, there is no reason for concern at this stage, as the Council of Ministers, by Decision No 343 of 18 May 2015, approved the total number 2470 for admission of students at the Academy of Educational and Quality Grades. It is clear from the letter of the temporary acting Rector that there are prerequisites for the implementation of this decision. The signing of the newly awarded diplomas for higher education, as well as other educational documents issued by the Economic Academy of the Bulgarian Republic of Bulgaria "Dimitar Tsenov" does not present a problem at present. I assure you that the Ministry of Education and Science will support all measures of the temporary management of the university, which are aimed at ensuring the conditions for the normal conduct of the exam sessions, as well as the candidate campaign. All our efforts are aimed at protecting the interests of students, the public and the public funds given for education and for the smooth functioning of the Industrial Academy. If a General Assembly is not held by autumn, then this Rector, who is declared legitimate by the court, will sign them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u239	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u240	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. You've really done the job. I'm glad the candidate campaign is really going to go normally and without deviating. As an additional question, I would like to ask you about your personal position on the situation that has been created. How do you explain why it came to this case? Barricade of new and former rectors, division among the academic community, accusations of an unpleasant situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u241	A complex of case studies, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u242	Mr. Iglev, thank you very much for this question. He's right in the center, in the focus of everything. The accumulation of the problem, I think, is the problem. The big problem is that it has systematically not been decided that academic morality has somehow been left behind and has not been investigated, maintained and everything else that is being done for its triumph by responsible persons in this country. I regret that this case concerns just the town in which there is a monument of the donors this town which Aleko Konstantinov gave. I'm sorry this happened, but that's why the loudest thing happened there. I guess there are other cases, one way or the other. The academism in Bulgaria seems to be wide, as I have said before, to Kalotina, not all of it. Because we have great professors, we have great academies, we have great higher education institutions that respect all laws. Unfortunately, however, this old culture of daring disregard for both court and academic morality, academic principles, opinion of society and the waste of funds for salaries that are not regulated by public funds, and what else, related to projects, is responsible for this are those responsible people in Bulgaria who have not systematically paid decades of attention. We will have much more to clean until we get to that spirit, which in 1939 during the 50th anniversary of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski was here the University, which refused to give and protect on 24 May 1943 Jewish students because they write in our alphabet......................................... and are part of us. Let's help this spirit come back in some way, and an hour sooner. It was our intention, and it was on the brink of everything that could be done. Because such a unique measure has never been taken before. The whole task of the Ministry was to respect morale by leaving to the court, as the highest moderator and balancer of all interests, to rule. This has begun, thank God, to happen. Let's keep it that way, but without retrospective measures, no witch hunts. We'll just look ahead. I want there to be an agreement from now on and a dialogue that I wrote in this letter. At this point, there is no need to open too many fronts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u243	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Today's control will end with Mr. Dimitar Delchev asking Minister Tanev about the policy for the integration of ethnic minorities into the educational system and the results of its implementation. We're listening, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u244	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Professor. Tanev! The tension in Garmen and Orlandovtsi is showing once again how important the efforts of both the Ministry of Education and Science and the state as a whole are in terms of the integration of minorities into the educational system. We know that for decades there have been numerous programs in this area, a lot of money has been spent, but unfortunately we see that this money has largely been spent without result. This also requires that we clarify the plans and measures that the government intends to take from now on. It is also necessary, in my opinion and in our opinion, that those, so to speak, the privileges that minorities receive, namely social benefits, integration aid, should be more closely linked to their actual education and actual school attendance. So we have the following questions: What measures to support the educational preparation of students from ethnic minorities in Bulgaria, especially Roma, have been taken by your trusted ministry? Is there an assessment of the implementation of these measures and the link between the results and the specific initiatives? In what way does the state intend to bind the results of children's education to material incentives for their development? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u245	For an answer, Minister Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u246	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, dear Mr. Delchev! This is one of the main issues of education, not to say that it is one of the two or three most fundamental issues. The Ministry of Education and Science deals directly with the country's distant future, and it will not be what it is now, at least as far as the population is concerned. The issue of integration of ethnic minorities, especially Roma, is strategic, more strategic than anyone else. With all due responsibility, I would like to say that much has not been done on this matter. Somewhere I had said that the treatment of Roma in the way so far, conditionally speaking, with the stick and sugar, with police and with payment for a read book or for something else, there were no results anywhere, not only in Bulgaria, but abroad. Many funds, huge funds have been wasted on all efforts, including those of many NGOs. Paradoxically, there are also wonderful cases in Bulgaria. I'd quote two. One is in Kavarna, where a leadership has received European recognition for what has been done. I would also quote what is happening in the Sofia region in Samokov. The policy is aimed at all children, but we have to look at Roma children with their own culture, because the attempt to make them ours in quotes or others nowhere is a success. That's why we have to look at it in a new way. The new way is to use their culture and good examples, which are based just on respecting the difference with them, and to learn to live together. In three minutes, I can't represent the legal base and what the Ministry has done so far, but I have this in writing and I'll hand it over to you. The guaranteed legislative opportunities for the educational integration of children and students from ethnic minorities, which are guaranteed by law, does not mean that integration really happened. The management team of the Ministry is aware of the problems, difficulties and obstacles that need to be overcome along the way of implementing this integration to enable children and students to become architects of their own personal development. Taking into account the importance and relevance of the problem since the beginning of 2015, the Ministry's team, in which there has been a special adviser in the political cabinet for seven months now, started hard work on the preparation of a Strategy for Educational Integration of Children and Students from Ethnic Minorities, 2015 and 2020 as well as an Action Plan. I am pleased to mention that, after a detailed discussion, the two documents have been uploaded from Monday this week to the website, as well as on the Facebook page of the Ministry of Education and are subject to public discussion. The thousands of views so far and the hundreds of comments on it show that the document is timely and very expected by the Bulgarian public. In parallel, the Ministry conducts a very intense dialogue with Roma NGOs. Meetings are almost weekly, with organisations that have proven successful practices over the years in the field of educational integration. As you know, as of this year, the Ministry of Education has been the first officer of the Fund for the new operational programmes. We have already launched an active information campaign to clarify the possibilities for applying on Axis 3 to them. The teams of the Ministry are working on several more areas related to educational integration, one of which is the implementation of e-education as a strong toolkit for attracting and holding these children. The results of our efforts in the field of educational integration will become visible in the coming years. It takes a long time. However, we all understand the growing importance and responsibility for solving this problem. The solution can only be with the earliest possible inclusion of Roma children from 3 years of age and their parents as partners. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u247	You will continue in the back, Mr. Tanev. Two supplementary questions, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u248	Thank you for your information. I realize that the issue is very general and it concerns too much matter that cannot be exposed at the given time, but it is an important and timely issue. In this regard, my supplementary question will be more specific and focused specifically on the actual visit of children from ethnic minorities to school, because there is no doubt that the main problem is there. We know that there are legislative solutions in this regard, that is, there are requirements for children to be in school. Whether these requirements are complied with or not, or are formally complied with, is a matter of specific checks. Do you have any idea of such checks? Do you have any idea of how to tighten control whether minority children are actually present in school hours, because this is ultimately their obligation under the Constitution? How exactly do you intend to proceed in this particular direction? Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u249	A hole, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u250	The definition of...... is not uniform. Control can mean power control. We prefer to look for such a policy on the issue that rests on the positive, i.e. the stimulating, the preliminary control, the one that does not have to reach the force control. In this sense, I traveled and spent a long time in areas with a positive example. It's all written down. We'll be given the documents. In the plan that I said was on the MES website, it's being hinted at clearly enough. We want to use everything that has been done in these regions of Bulgaria so that we can implement our positive policy. More precisely: children under the age of 7, attracting parents, actively putting them in the position of assistants of school guides, dialogue with local authorities, as well as stimulating in any way not necessarily financial, the advanced cases, in order to make them an example of others who are still hesitant. This thing's working. It doesn't work perfectly, but it works! The most important thing, however, is to create a special environment in schools, which means special training of teachers in such areas, which is hardly being done at the moment. It means the work of psychologists and other experts, more comprehensive actions to help with know-how and local authorities. We are very confident that this will cause the effect of the snowball.. that the first good cases will be able to attract after them and will result in an effect of gradual and increasing expansion of positive examples. We also intend to think about creating a special educational institution for integration with a scientific centre, probably in Vidin or in some place in Northwestern Bulgaria, which will deal with foreign specialists and Bulgarians and electronically to Chitalishtes and other scientific or Roma communities will make them empathetic to the broad discussion of ways to deal with the issue. When, if not now and who, if not me, like I said?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u251	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Attitude? You won't use it. You want a procedure? Here you go. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u252	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Here, this tribune usually takes the floor for objections, debates, accusations, but today we are in the procedure of parliamentary control. Let me introduce a good practice today. I hope she finds an understanding from the coworkers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u253	The procedure must be either in the manner...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u254	Yes, procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u255	Yes, I'm listening to your remark to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u256	I want to thank the stenographers, the Quaestors, the BNT team, the computer specialists, everyone who helped us reach our constituents! I would like to thank all MPs who have exercised their right to parliamentary control! I would like to thank all the representatives of the Council of Ministers who have come to exercise this right! Of course, I would like to thank you personally for professionally, impartially having today's debate, hoping that this will also be in the future and become a good practice! My procedural proposal is that you, at your discretion, when you decide to end our procedure due to the expiry of the agenda, and this is all your power. Once again: thank you all! [[Single applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-26.u257	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Strong media week for you. You managed to finish it in a brilliant way in front of the cameras and microphones of National Television and National Radio. Here we will put an end to parliamentary control, as the time for its running is over. The next regular plenary session is next Wednesday 1 July 2015. I'm shutting down the plenary day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
