ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] A few messages. In connection with the open procedure for the selection of Chief Inspector at the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council and the rules of procedure adopted by Parliament on 11 December 2014 on the terms and conditions of the proposal of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates for Chief Inspector at the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, yesterday " 28 January 2015" the National Assembly received the applications supported by several professional and non-professional organizations of judges Vera Chochkova and Teodora Tochkova. According to the rules of procedure, I quote:.. Non-profit institutions registered for public use, higher schools and scientific organizations may propose applications for Chief Inspector at the Inspectorate of the SJC of the Parliamentary Groups and the National Assembly..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The proposal of professional and non-governmental organisations was sent yesterday via emails to MPs and parliamentary groups, without the documents of candidates containing personal data. In full volume the proposal is available to the Members of the National Assembly. Also in full volume the proposal was sent to the eight parliamentary groups today, January 29, 2015, in the morning, in 1 copy against signature because of the personal data contained in the full volume of the documents. The proposal has also been made available to the Committee on Legal Affairs in full. The announcement is made in view of the possibility of MPs or parliamentary groups to submit the nominations of Judge Chochkova and Judge Tochkova as Chief Inspector for the open procedure for election by the National Assembly. I would remind the Members of the National Assembly that proposals for candidates are made by MPs or parliamentary groups in writing to the Committee on Legal Affairs by 30 January 2015, tomorrow, including, and in accordance with the rules of procedure adopted by us. On the basis of art. 82 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the National Representative Lutvi Mestan and MPs from the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms withdraw the bill submitted by them on 14 January 2015 amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, No 554-01-4. The draft of the PID shall be withdrawn from the importers due to a technical error made following the removal of which it will be re-exported. A letter from Mr. Peter Kanev was received from the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, informing me that at his regular meeting held on 21 January 2015, the Commission has chosen from its composition a permanent subcommittee for monitoring the activities in the field of consumer protection and restriction of monopolies. The subcommittee consists of 8 MPs from each parliamentary group: President Daniela Saveklieva; Members from Boris Yachev, Zhelyo Boychev, Kiril Tsochev, Lyubomir Vladimirov, Martin Dimitrov, Ferihan Ahmedova and Chavdar Peychev. On 28 January 2015 the National Statistical Institute received information about the business climate in industry, construction, trade and services in January 2015. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We continue with legislative activity: SECOND READING THE LAW FOR THE COURT OF AUDITORS
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u2	Under art. 38 At importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 38, para. 1 the following changes are made: 1. In the introductory wording of the provision, the expression 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the words.. the accounts for.... are The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 38, which becomes art. 39.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u3	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 148 MPs: 42, against 75, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 38 by importer, supported by the Commission and receiving number art. 39 of her report. They voted 136 MPs: 95, against 20, abstention 21. The offer is accepted. Procedure. Mrs. Manolova wants a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u4	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, once again I draw your attention to the fact that, given the squeezing of the Law on Knees, from its most important part, which deals with the powers and duties of the management bodies and the employees of the Court of Auditors, the members of the Court of Auditors have dropped out. Since in front texts it turns out that they will not be subject to compulsory insurance... [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] No, these are separate texts. This is the text which clarifys the powers of the management and of the staff of the Court of Auditors. Members of the Court of Auditors who participate in the decision-making process on each audit report, at least with voting participation, shall have absolutely no powers in respect of the audit process. This goes on in the following texts. I just pay attention to you correcting this because whenever there is a comprehensive enumeration, those that are not listed in the comprehensive enumeration fall away from the relevant hypotheses. In this case, it is about powers in carrying out audits. The two members of the Court of Auditors who will work there on a fee will obviously not have any powers. They will have no obligations under the next text. In respect of them, the financial liability in the exercise of their powers will not be excluded, they will not be insured, they will not bear disciplinary, administrative and other responsibility. At all, we have adopted two figures who will only be paid for voting on one or another audit without really having any regard to the entire audit process. If we assume that voting on audit reports is a meaningful action that makes sense, then all of these hypotheses really do. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Discredit the entire law you're passing. That is why I voted against. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u6	Under art. 39 of the importer proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 39, which becomes art. 40: "Obligations of the heads and officials of the audited organisations Art. 40. (1) Heads and officials of the audited organisations shall be obliged to assist the persons referred to in Article. 39, para. 1 when exercising their powers and providing appropriate premises and technical means for carrying out audits, including the use of telecommunications resources. (2) The persons under para. 1 shall not refer to any state, official, commercial, banking or other legal secret when carrying out audits by the Court of Auditors. (3) In the event of refusal of assistance for the exercise of the powers under art. 39, including in the event of not submitting the required information, the President shall, upon written notice, disclose the unlawful conduct of the officials concerned on the website of the Court of Auditors. (4) In case of refusal to provide information under art. 39, para. 1, t. 4 The President shall have the right to issue an order to carry out an inspection of the legal person or the sole trader in relation to the information refused. (5) In the event of obstruction of the check under para. 4 by the legal person or by the sole trader, the Court of Auditors shall inform the authorities of the prosecution. (6) The written evidence collected in the verification under para. 4 are an integral part of the audit documentation carried out in the audit organisation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u7	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 40 in its version and numbering on the Commission report together with its name. They voted 129 MPs: 125 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u8	Article 40 supposed by the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 40 the expression "suppliers" and the comma after it drop out, and after the words "structural units" is added to the audit work. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 40, which shall become Article 40. 41.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u9	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 138 MPs: 41, against 73, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 40 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 41. I am making a statement about the stenogram: everywhere the numbering of the member concerned goes with its name. They voted 121 MPs: 91, against 16, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u10	Article 41 supposed by the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 41 the following changes are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word "deeds" a point shall be placed and the text by the end of the sentence shall be removed. 2. A new para is being created. 3: Declaration of the circumstances under para. 1 shall also be submitted by the managing authorities, the heads of structural units and other persons carrying out quality control functions in the performance of the relevant audit. 3. Alinei 3 and para. 4 shall become respectively para. 4 and para. 5. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 41, which becomes art. 42.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u11	Statements? Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u12	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleagues, we are making this proposal for a new para. 3 because in addition to the audit team and other persons directly participate in the audit task without being members of the team. First of all, these are the management bodies "Those who adopt the annual audit programme, the Vice-Presidents who issue the orders for the award of audits, as well as the bodies which carry out the coordination under the procedure itself. The President shall also issue the order for the award of audits awarded by the National Assembly. The heads of the structural units shall exercise this control. As well as the management bodies of the Court of Auditors, they may have an impact on the conclusions and assessments of the audit carried out, which gives rise to the need to declare their independence and impartiality in relation to a specific audit carried out. We believe that our proposal for these management bodies to declare these circumstances is necessary and I ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u13	- What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Manolova for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, the fact that you deprived the members of the Court of Auditors of compulsory insurance, the fact that you entrusted them with carrying out their functions as opposed to all other persons is your problem, because they are faced with problems plus those that will carry both the employees of the Court of Auditors and the President and the Vice-Presidents. The text we are currently discussing concerns the declaration of conflict of interest in cases where audits of specific sites are carried out. I think that here, both in the interests of Bulgarian citizens and in the interests of objectivity of audits, especially the members of the Court of Auditors should declare in advance whether they are in conflict of interest with some of the sites examined, regardless of whether... [[Noise and lines.]] Are you listening to me, Mrs. Stoyanova?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u15	I'm listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u16	Thanks for that. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u17	Colleagues, please do not enter into direct conversations with each other outside of the discussion provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u18	Because this is what it's all about. In cases where an audit is carried out on a site, as members may also carry out any other paid activity, they may be consultants of that site, may be external auditors, they may be intermediaries, they may be consultants or auditors, for example, of a firm that has participated in a procurement procedure that is subject to audit in respect of the audited entity, for example, a municipality. In my opinion, it is imperative that, even before the audit itself starts, the members of the Court of Auditors declare a conflict of interest and dependence and links.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u19	He's got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u20	Well, he's gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u21	Read the law to the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u22	Well, he's gone! Give me the text according to which the members of the Court of Auditors, the two members who are on a fee and carry out another paid activity, are obliged to declare a conflict of interest in respect of some of the sites audited. Otherwise, we create prerequisites. In your opinion, they do not participate in the audit process because for you, as I have learned, that the reports will vote is not participation in the audit process. In general, voting on the audit report is not part of the audit process. The fact that these two will have a decisive vote on adopting or not a single report on an audited entity is also not a problem. However, in our opinion, the Bulgarian citizens have the right to know, and the relevant audited sites, whether the member of the Court of Auditors, on whom the outcome of the audit will depend, is at least in any financial relationship with the audited entity or with third parties who are in links with this audited entity. In other words, these two will receive fees, consulting contracts, brokerage contracts, any money from any other paid activity related to the audit activity and will not even inform about it. That really isn't in any law. I am making an additional proposal here because there is no way to assume that you will come up with a member of the Court of Auditors, before submitting proposals for second reading, I propose in our proposal to create para. 3: "Declaration of the circumstances under para. 1 is also submitted by the managing authorities, after the comma to add.. the members, to add another comma, as you very much care about commas in GERB, and then the sentence to continue. So these two figures, which appeared between first and second readings, should also be so good at least in the case of audit checks, when they take money from the audited entity, should be obliged to declare it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u23	Mrs. Manolova, you are making a proposal to supplement your proposal, which is not supported by the Commission. If you have editorial proposals, they must be referred to the text of the Commission as it is proposed for editing of art. 43. If you have editorial proposals to art. 43 in its version of the Commission report, do them and will be put to the vote, but I cannot allow a proposal from your proposal which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u24	In this case, it is a matter of art. 41, which becomes art. 42. I propose that a new para be created. 3 We have actually made this proposal to add the members to it. We were not able to make this proposal correctly because the members appeared between the first and second readings and there was no way to propose.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u25	This situation could have been clarified at the debate in the Commission. We follow the main text of importers for art. 41, as it is supported by the Commission. What an editing of Al. 3, other than what you have proposed between the first and second votes, are you proposing right now? It reads: "When the incompatibility under para. 1 is established in the audit process, persons are required to make a written rebuttal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u26	The circumstances of para. 1 shall be declared in writing before the start of the audit to a Vice-President. This is the main text. Here we add a sentence: "Declarations of the circumstances under para. 1 the management bodies and the members of the Court of Auditors shall also submit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u27	Thanks, I got it. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u28	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, my line will be very brief. Dear Mrs. Manolova, what you are talking about is not done in this Law in order not to play on declarations, but is done in the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests, as you very well know. To reassure you, the other day we tabled with colleague Martin Dimitrov such proposals for changes that you can support on behalf of your group and resolve the problem very quickly. So don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u29	Second line? It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u30	Dear Mr. Slavov, we have also introduced a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Conflict of Interest with colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria. If you want, you can support him. This is about specific texts which relate to the responsibilities of the members of the Supreme Audit Authority in the Bulgarian State. Whether your proposals will be accepted, and whether ours will be adopted is a matter of future action in Parliament. Until then, we allow the Court of Auditors and the members of the Court of Auditors to work in conflict of interest, carrying out the most important audit checks and revisions in the country. After all, it's about auditing billions of leva of public money. The fact that two persons will work on a fee will work in private, will receive money from a consulting agency for audits from checked sites is really disturbing. In my opinion, the most normal thing about the Law on Conflict of Interest was those two new members who appeared as a result of party arrangements in the quadruple coalition, at least to have some commitments, to bear responsibilities. Punitive "clearly, administratively, to submit declarations under the Law on Conflict of Interest. Do you understand what you're doing? They work hours, they get money for it, they work for audited sites, and in the end they don't even have to declare it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u31	Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u32	My fellow Members, I will speak very briefly. First, I would like to remind you that the name of the article in question. 41 is: "Conflict of interest in carrying out the audits', which means that all persons who in one way or another participate in audit and fall into the hypothesis of conflict of interest, including under para. 1 of art. 41, according to para. 2 are required to submit such a declaration. This means that such a declaration must also be submitted by department heads and heads at other lower levels if they participate in a specific audit and have such a conflict of interest. As for what Mrs Manolova pleads, the matter is settled, honourable Members, in § 13 in the Transitional and Final Provisions, where we have made a change in the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests. There in art. 3 where the persons who must comply with this Law are listed and must submit declarations under this Law for all cases where they have a conflict of interest, i.e. 10 The President, the Vice-Presidents and the members of the Court of Auditors shall be enrolled. Therefore, under this Law, if they, in the course of a certain audit or other activity, fall into, because these are not only audits, it is possible, for example, that when they receive information in relation to audits of political parties or in relation to the submission of declarations of persons in public positions and other activities of the Court of Auditors itself, under the Conflict of Interest Act, they should declare that conflict of interest. So what Mr. Gechev suggests and in this case was supplemented is simply pointless because it is settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u33	- What's the line? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u34	Honourable Members, this paragraph refers to the joint declaration of conflict of interest that everyone has submitted, including the Members of the National Assembly, acting in their functions and undertaking commitments to work outside the conditions of conflict of interest and generally in their work in Parliament. However, this is about something else, when, in the case of specific audits of specific audit sites, the members of the Court of Auditors, who will ultimately vote on the final audit report on this site, declare whether they are in any relationship or with the audited entity or with third parties concerned with that site. Sorry, I'm giving you a hypothesis. The Member of the Court of Auditors in question audited, in fact carrying out a private consultancy activity of a firm that applies for public procurement on a regular basis and which, for example, loses them or more, this Member of the Court of Auditors receives money from the audited entity under a consulting contract because we authorised it to them. In my opinion, it is normal that, before starting the specific audit, the members of the Court of Auditors, if at least taking money from the one audited by the Court of Auditors, declare it in particular.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u35	This is required by this law that you have written.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u36	No, it's the opening statement you're quoting to me. [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Let's read the text!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u37	Please, no lines! You have the opportunity to replicate!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u38	Let's read the text! Because we talk in general.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u39	First Mr. Lazarov and then probably Mrs. Yordanova! [[Definitions between MPs Maya Manolova and Menda Stoyanova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u40	Guys, I'm sorry, what are you doing? I don't understand. [[laughs, excitement]] ?! Is this some kind of contact task force, what's this about? Mr. Lazarov, you have the floor for a line. Mrs. Stoyanova and Mrs. Manolova, I give you official attention to the order of the House!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u41	Pay no attention, Mrs. Stoyanova, to what your reply is saying, as it turns all the principles that are laid down in establishing the conflict of interest when it is declared. If she had been sincere, she would have proposed in the so-called Election Code at each meeting of the Central Election Commission, as there are also fellow lawyers who exercise this profession, and would have developed the thesis to submit applications under the Law on Conflict of Interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u42	And what do you advise Mrs. Stoyanova because the line is to her?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u43	Don't pay attention to what's said! That's what I started with, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u44	Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u45	So we're here to listen to the same thing, the same thing as a tape recorder... That's the principle that's turning around. Where, in a particular case, there is a conflict of interest, each person shall be obliged under the Law to submit such a declaration, to declare it at a vote or not to vote. We will now reverse the principle of any decision to file any declaration of conflict of interest. It's not about the opening statement. If this was also proposed in the CEC, Mrs. Stoyanova, at each meeting of the CEC, all members had to submit declarations of conflict of interest before deciding. Don't mind me! The same thing is being said, we've been listening to it for three days on this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u46	But it's good for you. All MPs now know what this is about and therefore react so violently in this House. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u47	In the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest, in art. 3 listed are persons holding public positions within the meaning of this Law who are subject to this Law. This includes the members, the President and the Vice-Presidents. We've cleared that up. From then on, in addition to their introductory declaration, they declare incompatibility of their private interests under Chapter 3, where in art. 15 it is said that a person holding a public office shall submit a declaration under art. 12, these are the different types of declarations above, within 7 days of a change, if any. Where no conflict of interest has been declared in their introductory declaration and then on a particular occasion there is a change in this circumstance, they shall declare it. And the Law on Conflict of Interest, honourable Members, ensures that these individuals will not be in conflict of interest unless they conceal it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u48	Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? The debates are closed, we are going to vote. First, I put to the vote the proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs for editing of art. 41 by importer not supported by the Commission. They voted 128 MPs, 27 against 85, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 41, which becomes art. 42, but there is a proposal from Mrs. Manolova to supplement para. 2 by importer with the following second sentence: The Declaration on the circumstances under para. 1 the management bodies and the members of the Court of Auditors shall also submit. We are voting on Mrs. Manolova's proposal to supplement para. 2 with a second sentence. They voted 124 MPs: 26, against 77, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 41 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 42. Vote 120 MPs: 93 against 15, abstentioned 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u49	Under art. 42 has a proposal from the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42, para. 1, after the words...................................................................................... 41 and the Implementing Manual is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 42, which becomes art. 43: "External experts" Art. 43 (1) In individual cases for verification of specific issues of audits may be attracted external experts, subject to the requirements of art. 42 and internationally recognised audit standards. (2) The persons under para. 1 sign a declaration of secrecy and non-disclosure of facts and circumstances under art. 34, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u50	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Gechev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 112 MPs: 16 against 81 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission proposal for the name and editing of art. 43 on her report. Vote 112 MPs: 90 against 14, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u51	Under art. 43 has a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The Vice-President responsible shall be replaced by the corresponding member of the Court of Auditors and the expression "The Director and the Director" shall be removed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 43, which becomes Art. 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u52	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 27, against 69, abstentioned 11. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for art. 43, which becomes 44. Voted 103 MPs: 78, against 20, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u53	Under art. 44 has a proposal from the MP Rumen Gechev. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the proposal under para. 1 and does not support it by para. 2. I'm reading the unsupported al. 2: The draft audit report shall be subject to quality control under art. 44 as regards compliance with the requirements of para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 44, which becomes Art. 45: "Preparation of a draft audit report Art. 45. The Head of the Audit Team shall draw up a draft audit report in accordance with the audit programme adopted and subject to the requirements of the law, internationally recognised audit standards and the Court of Auditors' acts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u54	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported para. 2 of art. 44, which becomes Art. 45. This is the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: 21, against 59, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for art. 44 by importer, which becomes art. 45. Vote 108 MPs: 85 against 5, abstention 8. The text of the importer of art. 44, which in the version of the Commission becomes art. 45, accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u55	Under art. 45 has a proposal from the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. Art. Article 45 is replaced by the following: 44, the following changes shall be made in the title and content: 1. The title acquires the following content: 2. In para. 1: (a) the word "the Director" shall be replaced by the expression "the corresponding member of the Court of Auditors" at the beginning of the sentence. (b) the expression "the audit report' shall be replaced by "the audit carried out'; (c) Art. Article 44 is replaced by the expression "Article 44'; the following points are inserted after point (d) after the statement, recommendations. (d) at the end of the sentence shall be added the expression in the draft audit report. 3. In para. 2: (a) the word "the Director" shall be replaced by the expression "the Member of the Court of Auditors" and the words "the Member of the Court of Auditors" shall be added at the end of the sentence and shall be added to the expression "the Member of the Court of Auditors" in respect of the specific audit report. 4. Allinei three-six down. 5. New paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6 are hereby established. In the exercise of the control of compliance under para. 1 (Quality Control), the persons referred to in para. 2 may give written instructions for the removal of deficiencies and set a time limit for this. (4) In the event of disagreement with the instructions under para. 3 The Head of the Audit Team shall make a written objection to the Court of Auditors. (5) The Court of Auditors shall examine the opposition and give a reasoned written decision which shall be final. (6) The quality control procedures at each stage of the audit shall be carried out in accordance with internationally recognised audit standards and shall be regulated in the Implementation Manual. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 45, which becomes art. 46: The power of the Director of the Directorate. Control procedure Art. 46. (1) The Director shall control the compliance of the draft audit report with the requirements of art. 45, evaluates the evidence regarding their reliability and adequacy and their relation to the findings, conclusions, evaluations and recommendations made. (2) In his activity under para. 1 The Director shall be assisted by the heads of the structural units. (3) Within 30 days of the submission of the project, the Director shall give a reasoned written decision giving: 1. approve the draft audit report; 2. returns the draft audit report with instructions for the further processing and removal of the deficiencies. (4) Within 7 days of the decision under para. 3, p. 2 The Head of the Audit Team shall send the revised draft audit report to the Director for approval. (5) In the event of disagreement with the instructions given, the Head of the Audit Team shall make a written statement to the responsible Vice-President. (6) The Vice-President of the Court of Auditors shall examine the opposition and rule within 7 days by a reasoned written decision, which shall be final.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u56	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, the text does not correspond to the proposal of importers that the Vice-Presidents lead the audit directorates. The alternates shall conduct a management of the audit work, but the Director shall monitor the compliance of the draft report with the quality requirements. This means that if there is no disagreement between the Director and the head of the team, the Vice-President, who under the bill is responsible for the audit work and its quality, does not know what draft audit report is prepared and will be served on the audited entity. Therefore, it cannot be held liable for a document which, by procedure, has not reached it, which is probably the purpose of importers. In this provision, it clearly shows that for management bodies, figures will be designated that are not legally involved in the process and can only influence informally by virtue of their post and the hierarchic relationship with the audit staff without being documented. It is likely that this proposal of importers is dictated by the doubts that two alternates cannot exercise such functions in respect of all audits, thus limiting their intervention at this stage only to those where there is a dispute between the team and the director. Secondly, the procedure described in para. 3 and para. Four is logical and not working. In practice, quality control of the audit is not a one-off process and is not carried out in the described way. It covers not only the draft audit report but the implementation of the entire audit. As regards the control of the draft audit report, it is not possible to carry out it once in any case. There is often a multiple discussion and guidance for the project's further work, which is documented. Not in any case, failure to comply with the processing instructions is necessarily linked to disagreement by the head of the audit team. In third place, in para. 4 contains one legal absurdity, providing that the Vice-President will resolve disputes over the draft audit report with a decision that is final.............................................................................................. This procedure is inadmissible given that the draft audit report is subject to adoption by a decision of the Court of Auditors. Before this final act, there is no way that certain issues in the audit can be resolved, which is final. The audit team shall not be given the opportunity to refer the matter to the College body. If, subsequently, a reasonable objection has been received by the alternate in a final decision, it is clear in advance that this part of the report will not change, it will not be able to correct its decision. For the above reasons, the proposal, which has not been adopted, regulates the overall control of its quality, not only on the draft audit report, but also on the entire audit, and provides that detailed procedures will be adopted together with the guide for implementing internationally recognised audit standards. The presence of two external members does not at all affect the objectivity of this process. They shall not participate in the operational management of the Court of Auditors and shall have no idea what happens to the audit before it is submitted to a meeting. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in practice, these two experts in the Court of Auditors, who do not have a factually direct responsibility chosen by two fixed, unknown how certain non-governmental organisations will be pronounced for those over 32 billion. lv. of the Bulgarian taxpayer, which will be spent. The above vices of the procedure show once again the bankruptcy of the proposed changes and the reasons that support them. The draft does not decide, but, on the contrary, deepens the possibilities for unauthorised influence, leads to total ambiguity with regard to quality control procedures, does not comply with the basic request to regulate the role and responsibilities at different levels and, above all, the role of Vice-Presidents and their operational intervention in the audit process. And once again, especially with these two gastrolers, we enter into the practice of the European Union as a whole. That is to say, jokingly, they will most likely be interested in Burkina Faso and Somalia for this model, in which free electrons enter the Court of Auditors of a country in order to decide and audit over 32 billion. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u59	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Professor Gechev worries about other countries and peoples, I worry about the money of the Bulgarian taxpayers. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Laughter. Revelations: "Eeeeeee! "]] I think both concerns are justified because the other countries and peoples will be amazed by the Bulgarian experience in structuring the higher audit body of the state, as well as the practices found in it. Indeed, this text is extremely important because it regulates the way the audit process will be controlled. This is proof of our statement that directorates will simply be figures who will work as bees, but ultimately the decisions will be taken by the party-appointed President, Vice-Presidents and the two presiding members of the Court of Auditors. What is this text about? The Director of the relevant Directorate will exercise control over the entire audit process, the Vice-President, who is also the head of this Directorate for the first time we have units in the administration that have two heads each, one being more of a leader than the other because, although both of them are in charge, one is in charge, and the other is not clear what it is. So whoever is in charge, but not in charge, will exercise all the control, will be aware of the whole process, will return, will work, will support the preparation of the audit report, and eventually the other head, who is the bigger leader, but has no commitment to the process, will decide definitively. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Notice what is this act taken in the course of the audit process before the Court of Auditors pronounced as a college body that is final? In my opinion, this sentence in para. 6 is unthinkable, or here it is really suggested that the President and Vice-Presidents of the Court, who will be elected by the more important parties in the ruling quadruple coalition, through their representatives, will make final decisions before the two Gastlers are involved. Although you haven't mastered things here again, because the two gastroopers will have a decisive vote if they team up. [[GERB lines.]] Although the Vice-President has spoken with a final decision, this final decision will not be adopted at all if the two gastro-drivers do not vote on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u60	Bravo! That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u61	Well, then why are you writing it?! What is the finality of a decision that will be reviewed after.. there I do not know what the procedure is, one or two weeks?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u62	How come you don't know it's in there?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u63	Don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u64	There is no way for the procedure to be final for either the audit process or it is not final. In this case, it's obviously not final. Remove this from the last sentence so that you do not create legal absurdities with a legal technique that is really unknown to legislation. In fact, the whole problem arises from the fact that the two gastrolers appeared as a result of additional agreements between the quadruple coalition. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And because you put them on the move inside, you didn't sign them any powers, no responsibilities, no commitments, no insurance, nothing, and their landing in the procedure created purely legal and technical problems for the discharge of the entire process. [[Heckling]] Well, fix it, otherwise you're writing shit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u65	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Firstly, I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 21, Against 55, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on the text of the importer with numbering art. 45, which in the version of the Commission becomes art. 46. Vote 92 MPs: 72 against 13, abstention 7. The text of the Commission for art. 45, which becomes art. 46 in the version of the Commission has been adopted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u66	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46 there is a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 46 the following changes are made: 1. In para. 1 the expression "signing of a decision under art. 45, para. 3, p. 1 of the Director-General of the Directorate-General shall be replaced by the call of the Member of the Court of Auditors. 2. In para. 4 and the expression "the responsible Vice-President' shall be replaced by the expression "the Member of the Court of Auditors'; 3. In para. 5 and the expression "The Vice-President' shall be replaced by the expression "The Member of the Court of Auditors'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 46, which becomes art. 47: Service of the draft audit report Art. 47. (1) The approved draft audit report shall be served on the head of the audited organisation, as well as on the former directors of the organisation during the audited period, no later than one month after the issue of the decision under art. 46, para. 3, p. 1. (2) Regardless of the obligation to serve under para. 1, the communication on the service of the approved draft audit report shall be published on the website of the Court of Auditors, and the relevant management body of the Court of Auditors may also take other action to notify the former managers of the audit organisation in due time. (3) The persons under para. 1 may give written observations on the draft audit report, providing additional evidence and/or additional written explanations within 14 days of its service. (4) Upon written request of the persons under para. 1 The responsible Vice-President of the Court of Auditors may extend the period under para. Three by seven days. (5) The Vice-President of the Court of Auditors shall draw a reasoned conclusion on the opinions under para. 3 within 14 days of receipt. Within three days of drawing up the conclusion, the Vice-President shall submit the report to the Court of Auditors for consideration, the opinions referred to in para. 3, the reasoned conclusion and written reasoned proposals for amendments to findings, conclusions, evaluations or recommendations. (6) Upon closure of an audited organisation, the draft audit report shall be served on the head of the successor. Where no successor has been designated, the draft audit report shall be sent for information to the authority that has taken the decision to close the organisation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u67	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 16 against 58, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote the text of the importer for art. 46, which in the version of the Commission acquires numbering art. 47. 90 MPs voted: 80 against 9, abstention 1. The text of the importer for art. 46, which in the version of the Commission becomes art. 47 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u68	Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev for art. 47. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 which is reflected in its systematic place in art. 55, and doesn't support it on t. 1. I read the unsupported t. 1: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 47 the following changes are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) A new item shall be created. 1: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 1. adopt, in full or motivated manner, to amend or revoke, in whole or in part, findings, conclusions, evaluations and recommendations in the audit report; (b) t. 1 is t. 2, by means of the expression "supplies' and as a result, adopt, amend, revoke, whole or in part' shall be replaced by the expression "supplied, amended or supplemented by'; c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 47, which becomes Art. 48: "Final audit report' Art. 48. (1) The Court of Auditors shall examine the draft report together with the conclusion and opinions referred to in art. 47, para. 5 and adopt by decision a final audit report based on an overall assessment of the evidence, opinions and explanations, and may: 1. accept or reject the conclusion, in whole or in part, under art. 47, para. 5 and the proposals for amendments made to it and to adopt, amend, revoke, fully or partially findings, conclusions, evaluations and recommendations in the audit report; 2. reject the audit report in full due to irresistible deficiencies and irregularities in it. (2) Where changes in findings, conclusions, evaluations and recommendations in the audit report lead to conclusions of infringements for which more responsibility is sought, the President of the Court of Auditors shall inform the Head of the audited organisation thereof. (3) The Head of the audited organisation may present an additional written objection to the changes under para. 2 within 14 days of service. (4) The Court of Auditors shall give its final ruling on the further objection submitted under para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u69	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs in his unsupported part, namely that. 1 for art. 47. Vote 95 MPs: 17 against 62, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 47, which in the version of the Commission becomes art. 48. Vote 96 MPs: for 76, against 12, abstention 8. The Commission's editing of art. 48 has been accepted. On behalf of the parliamentary group Mr. Radan Kanev, co-chair of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In the past years of crisis, Bulgarian financial regulators - the Bulgarian National Bank and the Financial Supervision Commission have failed to fulfil their legal objectives to maintain financial stability and growth and to help turn citizens' savings into investments in the Bulgarian economy. On the contrary, they have allowed a systematic flow of capital from banks and financial institutions to banks abroad and to foreign capital markets. For the years of the crisis, more than 20 billion. lv. savings in Bulgarian banks left the country and more than two thirds of the assets of the Bulgarian pension funds were invested abroad. Thanks to the reduced and often unscrupulous supervision, a significant part of the funds invested in the Bulgarian financial institutions was allowed to be invested in related to the management of these institutions. Few of them were used to finance losing businesses, corruption schemes, media-political projects and direct political activity. Today, we have reasonable doubts that a significant part of these funds, saved by ordinary Bulgarian citizens and companies, were also invested in the criminal activity of buying votes and trading with influence. Thus, the savings of the Bulgarians, instead of working for economic recovery and new jobs, sank into the swamp of political corruption and contributed to the impoverishment of the population and the enrichment of the mafia. The result of this model of incompetence, professional irresponsibility and political corruption was the bankruptcy of the fourth bank in the country and a lasting shake of confidence in the banking and financial system. Instead of building confidence, BNB and the FSC became factors of instability for the financial system of the country. Doubts in their competence, good faith and impartiality have led to the need for state financial support for banking institutions and to unnecessary and dangerous tensions around the income and assets of the universal pension funds in which the money of millions of working Bulgarian citizens has been invested. In the financial sphere and the activity of financial supervision in the public interest, a lack of trust is sufficient grounds for resignation. When one official, one person depends on the savings and pensions of millions, their daily survival, he has neither moral nor professional right to be stubborn in order to preserve his post and career, to bargain at the expense of public interest or, worst of all, to place his loyalty to shady patrons above the common good. We of the Reformation bloc regret that even after the failure and loss of public confidence, the leaders of the Bulgarian financial regulators are not at the height of their positions and their assigned responsibilities. Moreover, the management of the FSC allowed itself, instead of taking heavy responsibility for its failed mandate, to present its failure as an ugly personal conflict and to involve public opinion in a Mahlenian drama. It is particularly scandalous that the FSC ignored its powers when it had to protect the public interest, but allowed it to abuse them in order to impose excessive sanctions on media, which revealed precisely its inaction. Fellow Members of the majority in the Forty-third National Assembly, honourable Members of the opposition, when the financial regulators refuse to take responsibility, it passes on those on which their choice weighs, that is, on us. Today is not the time to blame ourselves for bad personnel decisions in the past. Today we must overcome together the consequences of these bad personnel decisions in order to protect the interest of Bulgarian citizens, Bulgarian savers and Bulgarian taxpayers. We need to demand the resignation of the management of financial regulators and, if we do not receive it, through a decisive act of parliament, to terminate their mandates and with urgent legislative changes to ensure that our society no longer suffers from such irresponsibility. In this severe crisis, colleagues, with what is already happening at our southern border, with the shaking of Greek markets, we cannot afford these people to manage the Bulgarian financial system a day more. This directly affects the interest of each of the people who sent us here in this room. At the moment we need the best from Bulgaria to take care of the savings and pensions of Bulgarian citizens, the assets of Bulgarian banks and pension funds through a transparent competition, through careful and responsible selection we must ensure that the Bulgarians will pass with intact savings during this phase of the crisis. This is the position of the Reformation Block. Thank you. I'll add something personal, two words for myself. Colleagues, I've been working at a grocery store all my life, and I've learned two things. One thing is, when the money's gone, someone stole it. That's for sure! The second is that when you don't kick the thief out in time, the end of the audit pays everyone. I appeal to you with a request not to let the Bulgarian citizens pay again in the end. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u71	What about BNB?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u73	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u74	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please, on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I am empowered by the Committee on Energy and all parliamentary groups to request an extension of the deadline by 7 days to submit proposals between first and second readings under the Energy Act, No 402-01-3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u76	I mean, you want 14 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u77	It's now 14 days, we want it to be extended by another seven days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u78	Thank you. We are voting on the proposal made by the President of the Commission Mr. Delyan Dobrev to extend the deadline. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The proposal is accepted.. The deadline for proposals becomes 21 days. Ms. Stoyanova, art. 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u79	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48, which becomes art. 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u80	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 48, which by the numbering of the commission becomes art. 49. They voted 93 MPs: 75, against 10, abstention 8. The text of the importer for art. 48, which by the numbering of the commission becomes art. 49 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u81	Article 49 by importer. Proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 49, para. 1 the following changes are made: 1. The expression "the Vice-President' shall be replaced by the expression "The Member of the Court of Auditors'. 2. After the word "Recommendations', at the end of the sentence, the expression "the Court of Auditors' shall be added on a regular basis to inform the Court of Auditors thereof. 3. The second sentence of the second sentence shall be created upon the award of an audit by a decision of the National Assembly, the review of the implementation of the recommendations shall be organised by the President of the Court of Auditors. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49, which becomes art. 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u82	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by Mr. Gechev and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support it. Vote 88 MPs: 12, against 60, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for art. 49, which becomes art. 50. Vote 92 MPs: 75 against 9, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u83	Article 50. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 the following changes shall be made: 1. In para. 1 after the expression "public procurement', in its first use, the expression "or public procurement contracts' shall be added and after its second use the expression "public financial inspection agency' shall be added within 7 days of the adoption of the audit report'; 2. Alinea 2 acquires the following content: The audit reports referred to in paragraph 2 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 adopted by decision of the Court of Auditors shall be an official document on the basis of which the bodies of the State Financial Inspection Agency shall form administrative criminal proceedings without requiring the award of a financial inspection for the same establishment. If necessary, the bodies of the Agency for State Financial Inspection may collect evidence under art. 13 of the State Financial Inspection Act. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50, which becomes art. 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u84	Statements? Mrs. Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u85	Honourable Members, this is one of another pointless texts on an extremely important topic of public procurement and violations of them. Can any of the people who are aware of how they are established, how they sanction violations of public procurement, their procedures, tell me if there are any functions the Public Procurement Agency has in sanctioning these violations? What is the role, in your opinion, of what are the powers of the Public Procurement Agency in cases where infringements have been found to be expected that the Agency will take any action? What action should the Agency take? In practice, the bodies dealing with the identification and sanctioning of infringements of procedures are the Court of Auditors and the Agency for State Financial Inspection. Here, since there are two verifiers and control authorities, problems occur that always exist when performing parallel activity with two bodies. It creates a controversial practice. The Court of Auditors has sanctioned one thing and ADFIs have sanctioned another, different arshins in the same violations, a hypothesis in which some of the sites are constantly full of verifiers and the Court of Auditors, which checks public procurement, then enters ADFI. Of course, this is done by stipulating some are checked five times and others are not checked at all. The member himself is entitled "Merciaries in violation of the public procurement regime." But inside, it's not about any measures. The report from the Court of Auditors must be sent to the Public Procurement Agency. I'm putting aside the fact that the reports are public. Why do you have to send something that's uploaded to the site? In general, you are creating here some texts without any meaning, and they are on topics that are extremely important and concern the spending of billions of levs of public money. Our proposals are highly rejected and texts are produced that mimic legislation, and that is in an area that is extremely important, not only how national public money will be spent, but in practice how European money will be spent. Instead of uniformising practices, strengthening control, texts are adopted that mean nothing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u86	- What's the line? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u87	Thank you, Madam President. I didn't mean to replicate the dear Mrs. Manolova. [[Calls MP Maya Manolova.]] You're looking very well, charmantic, the media has taken enough pictures of you for photo shoots. Only, fellow Members, for two days, Mrs. Manolova is explaining the technology of crushing. Two days we witness the technology they used with their coalition partners. By the way, you can turn around, fellow Members, I also turn to the media, see if their coalition partners are at work at all. According to unconfirmed information, I've received one that's been mobilized for the Red Army. [[Elevator bell dings]] I don't know what it is. So when you say untenable things, dear Mrs. Manolova, and you tell here public technology of crushing, take really and a little professionally turn around and take a look, because you've just been talking about how some people shouldn't have declared their income. Take and read this Law on taxation of natural persons' incomes. There is one article. 50, which obliges all individuals to declare their income. Because I'm embarrassed to give you tax law classes myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u88	Second line? A hole, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u89	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, there is no way you can give me a meaningful line, given that the very text we are discussing is meaningless. However, I would like to refer you back to the text which really refers to an important topic of action in the event of a breach of the public procurement regime. What I am saying is that such measures in this text do not contain that an authority which has no authority in establishing infringements of public procurement is involved. This is the Public Procurement Agency. This is the question which I asked about its functions, according to the importers of this law, regarding the sanctioning of infringements. What I have drawn attention to is that there is a collision between the two bodies that control public procurements, the Court of Auditors and ADFI. That is what I said and my concern is that instead of increasing control over how public money is spent, meaningless texts are written without content. As regards the declaration of income by persons holding public positions, this is completely different from the declaration of conflict of interest. I understand your confusion. There can be no confusion when legal structures are created here that do not exist in any public authority. We have given some people the opportunity to control how billions of levs are spent while controlling, to carry out parallel activities, to work for hours, to receive fees, consulting contracts from an activity that is parallel to the Court of Auditors. Therefore, I understand that you do not understand and it is really difficult to understand why and how you will be able to have a competitive income from that of the Court of Auditors. However, the texts that I have addressed are not in terms of income declaration. Believe me, these two members of the Court of Auditors will have a lot of income to declare because they have the right to receive any advisory, mediation and other money under different contracts. It's not the problem that they'll have to declare them. They will declare them, they will be absolutely legal. It is about the hypotheses in which they must declare a conflict of interest, but this is not the subject of this text. Otherwise I understand that you got up to mess with your competitor at the other end of the room. However, let us deal with the texts of the law, not with a common party policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u90	It's an army issue now, Mrs. Manolova, not just a coalition issue. Any other MPs? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u91	Thank you, Madam President. I guess I'll have to continue with the free lectures on control. It is really nice that a person who has been involved in the legislative power for a long time still knows the institutions that exercise control. Especially when it comes to spending money and conducting public procurement. These institutions, dear lady, dear colleague, I am glad that still in the Red Army have stopped taking ladies, but, first of all, this is the so-called AFCOS Directorate. Then, if you are a conscientious citizen, you can refer to OLAF. Since I have done so repeatedly, unlike you, I have managed to recover very little money in my capacity as a conscientious citizen. Then you can go to the Commission for Protection of Competition. Should I continue to explain to you how long the list of institutions that exercise control is? So do not delude the audience here and do not fool the audience, because you are throwing a few words so that they can reflect you on the media, then you can make tribunes without even grasping the meaning of the controlling functions of a huge part of the institutions that exist in Bulgaria and for which the Bulgarian taxpayer, in the interest of the truth, spends very little money. Another point is that during your government, when I have personally referred to the Anti-Corruption Commission in the face of a representative standing there in the back row, and personally I have referred to these institutions as if they were forbidden to work. Let us not say that they had blocked the entire Ministry of Interior so that one of your coalition partners could make civil arrests on the streets of Sofia and indulge in Bulgarian cities. That was you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u92	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, we are currently discussing a specific text from the Law. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Well, thank you for all the clarification, I suppose they were oriented towards a parliamentary group that was not present in the Chamber. Outside of the general explanations, I pay attention to the text of art. 50, which we're discussing. If you have ever really, as an active citizen, dealt with signals and combat public money abuse, you should really be interested in what texts Parliament accepts, what happens to the authority that will control public money. If you really had an active civic position on the subject of public procurement and public resource diversion, you couldn't help but worry that two people out of five who will control how public money is spent will also work privately, will receive fees, consultancy, mediation, audit money and so on. In this case, however, I am paying attention to you in art. 50, which refers to violations of the public procurement regime. Notice that the Court of Auditors, according to this text, which I say is absolutely palliative and does not make any sense, is obliged to send the audit report to the part about the violations of the Public Procurement Agency. The Public Procurement Agency, unlike the authorities you have listed, does not have any commitments to sanction infringements of public procurement. Why would they send her a report that's already public? That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. The authorities that control and impose sanctions are ADFIs, the Court of Auditors, the prosecution when it comes to crimes, and so on and so forth. What does the Public Procurement Agency have to do with this? Just writing some texts about throwing dust in the eyes of Bulgarian citizens that there will be some control. At the same time, the municipalities are excluded from auditing, with a budget of up to 10 million, companies where the state has more than 1 million. lv. We're actually writing texts about the audience that are devoid of meaning.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u94	Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u95	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Bayraktarov, I'm making a line to explain why the Public Procurement Agency needs to know what the violations are. In any case, orders go through them first to prevent them from being allowed in the future, it is good to know what the violations are. So you can explain to Mrs. Manolova what it's all about. [[Replications between MPs Maya Manolova and Svilen Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u96	Third line? I won't. The hole is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Manolova, I must really continue with the educational lecture. Firstly, each public procurement contract, in order to be registered as such, passes under the procedure carried out by the Public Procurement Agency (public procurement agency), receives its corresponding number, then that same Public Procurement Agency has the obligation to monitor compliance with the time limits within which this public procurement will take place. And your colleague explained very precisely and briefly that when there is a breach of a given procurement, firstly, the Agency itself must acquire the experience in order to clear the procedure. The vast majority of public procurement is linked to discrimination against relevant actors! Do I have to explain to you that there were public procurements in which a Mercedes was bought with strictly defined parameters, even the length of the vehicle's base?! That's why this text makes sense! Otherwise, the text does not say that the Public Procurement Agency will carry out sanctioning actions! There's no such sentence anywhere in the text!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u98	Is there supposed to be?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u99	No, there shouldn't be, because from then on all these institutions can be addressed seamlessly, even by yourself. Even by yourself! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u100	Any other speeches? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u101	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to make a very brief statement, so that we do not overly dampen the debate. In the proposal of colleagues Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, I am extremely worried about several expressions and several consequences. The audit reports under para. 1 adopted by decision of the Court of Auditors shall be an official document. Colleagues, that's indisputable! However, I cannot understand what the relationship is then with the official document's classification with the consequences and with the hybrid of administrative criminal liability that colleagues propose the official document, the report must have exclusive, binding power for a completely other administrative punishing authority. Since this decision has been proposed and debated in the previous Court of Auditors' discussion, I appeal to my fellow Members not to mix procedures. The procedure proposed by importers is more correct. If you wanted to engage the connection with ADFI (the State Financial Inspection Agency), in para. 1 just add the "ADFIs" and do it even as an editorial proposal. Why should I say that? You simply aim to have an endless debate about something that you know is not working and will not produce this effect There are many divisions in this control procedure. Simply send the report from the Court of Auditors and so on. The Agency for State Financial Inspection shall assess itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u102	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs for changes in art. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 96 MPs: 14 against 67 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 50 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 51 on the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: 76 against 11, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u103	"Request for dismissal from office of a guilty person" "Art. 51. Proposal by the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 51, which shall become Article 51. 52: "Request for dismissal from office of a guilty person' Art. 52. The Court of Auditors may, by means of the audit report, propose an exemption from office of a person holding responsibility and, following its action or omission, infringement of a law or recommendations given by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u104	Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u105	Honourable Members, Madam President! I propose art. 52 down. I can procedurally make such a proposal in plenary. I am also paying attention to the content and to the name of this article. The Court of Auditors shall establish an infringement... it shall not determine fault. This is actually one of GERB's favorite texts. When they come to power, their favorite is for the Court of Auditors to remove mayors, ministers people who have been selected in other procedures. What is normal for the Court of Auditors to do after completing an audit check with an audit report is in cases where it implies that there have been crimes or serious violations, to hand it over to the prosecution. The prosecutor's office and court are the authorities that judge the ones they propose, the others decide to remove the mayor from the performance of his duties, to remove the minister, to be removed from the district governor. I very much hope Mr. Bayraktarov, who, with such self-confidence, claimed that he was giving a lecture from this tribune, and the Patriotic Front, please take a look at this text. You have former mayors. Is it normal for the Court of Auditors to rule on which person is guilty and what is not? Guilt has different forms. It is established by other bodies, and the last thing the Court of Auditors should be dealing with is to say which person is guilty of one offence or another, even more so when it comes to crime. I would say that this text, on the eve of some upcoming elections, is charged with a lot of political meaning and a lot of advocacy, apart from being deprived of any legal justification. Leave this job to the D.A. Let her decide which mayors to ask for their dismissal. Let the court judge who the guilty persons are. There can be no such text in the Law on the Court of Auditors. [[Heckling]] Mr. Lazarov, the Court of Auditors cannot say which person is guilty. Which person is guilty, who has committed a crime, decides the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u106	- What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u107	Mrs Manolova, first of all, regarding the proposal that the Commission has adopted. Why does it have to be? We have excluded from the final text the words "systemic violations." Why the system? Because nowhere is there a legal definition of the concept of systemic. What does "systemic" mean one, two, five, ten? There is no such text, there is no such definition as to tell which infringement is systematic and what is not, first. Secondly, as far as you are concerned, the powers of the Court of Auditors are almost limited. Let me remind you that when you appealed and gave the Constitutional Court the previous Law on the Court of Auditors, then the Constitutional Court ruled and said that the proposal that we have made, I quote by memory: it is acceptable because, in practice, with its audit report, the Court of Auditors can propose here is the key. If memory serves, this is Decision No. 5 and you can take a look. He doesn't have to do it at all! I repeat: he may propose. Read the lyrics well! There's no drama, and everything you've said here is just so you can talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u108	Second line. [[Noise and lines.]] There'll be a third.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u109	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I disagree with your claims. The Court of Auditors shall in no way rule on liability. It is simply given an opportunity for the authority to make a proposal after the controls have been carried out. And here, let us consider the fact that the decision to remove is taken by a third party, by another entity. If that is, let's say, mayor, as you mean, obviously the proposal should be addressed to the municipal council. If it is a regional governor, the proposal should be addressed to the Council of Ministers or the Prime Minister. We don't have a guilty verdict here in the criminal sense. We have more prevention here, we have limited consequences if they are adverse to the audited site, as well as to the budget, so do not mislead either our colleagues or your own group. Moreover, I would say that here we should divide this measure, which is given to the Court of Auditors as an opportunity for the prosecution to remove from office, because there are very different prerequisites. There's nothing to mix! [[Relations from the National Representative Maya Manolova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u110	Third line. You won't use it. [[Noise and lines.]] It's a hole. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] Is there gonna be a douche bag or are you gonna clear yourself out of the loop? There's gonna be a douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u111	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Mrs. Yordanova, I would advise you to refrain from qualifying. [[GERB lines.]] To refrain from qualifying! In terms of who has what legal knowledge, who has read which decisions, I would simply advise you to give it a little more modestly. [[Reply from the National Representative Diana Yordanova.]] Given that you have written a law that is full of mistakes, I did not allow myself to attack any of you personally, so please do not enter Mr. Bajraktarov's rhetoric and do not give me assessments, because I think you should be ashamed of what you wrote. [[Reply from the place of the National Representative Diana Yordanova, lines and calls from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u112	Guys, don't beat yourself up. You have an opportunity for a doppelganger, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u113	Yeah, I'm doing it right now. I just put up with enough appreciated statements from people who've been left with their hands in this law. [[Comments and calls from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u114	Patience is mutual, Mrs. Manolova! Patience is mutual!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u115	And I just don't want to take it anymore. That's why I'm paying attention to you. [[Noise and lines.]] With regard to the text, honourable Members, the title contains a request for dismissal of a guilty person. In other words, the Court of Auditors wishes to remove a person who felt guilty. The Court of Auditors shall not have such power. In addition, the hypotheses on which you are currently considering do not exist in legal peace. It is not the municipal council that removes the mayor because he is a guilty person. It's not in that hypothesis. It's not in that hypothesis! The body that can take out the mayor for being a guilty person is the court. The assessment whether that person is guilty of the prosecution, i.e. the fact that the Court of Auditors may submit the audit report to the Prosecutor's Office, is quite sufficient. If the prosecutor decides that there is sufficient evidence of a crime, to initiate proceedings and to request suspension. So, you're pre-eminently burdening a person with one serious qualification, precisely that it's guilty.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u116	It's not always imported, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u117	The suspension is done by the court. In the context of the upcoming elections, giving the Court of Auditors the power to assess that certain mayors are guilty without having such a call for a guilty decision, it is indeed not correct, and I expect that those who have been in the local government in different qualities will vote. Is this the allowed power of the Court of Auditors, or are you simply turning it into one body of repression and party arbitrariness?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u118	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Mrs. Manolova made a procedural proposal for rejection of art. 50 by importer who has a numbering of art. 51 on the report. We are voting on this proposal by Mrs. Manolova. Vote 98 MPs: 27, Against 56, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of art. 50, which becomes art. 51 on the Commission report. Cancel the vote. The motion for rejection, which we voted on, of Mrs. Manolova, concerned a request for dismissal of a guilty person who is art. 51 by importer. I now put to the vote art. Article 51, which shall become Article 51. 52, so we vote Art. 52 on the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: 80 against 14, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u119	A proposal to limit the costs of an organisation. Article 52 supposed by Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 52, which becomes art. 53: A proposal to limit the costs of Audited organisation Art. 53. (1) After the adoption of the final audit report, as well as in the event of refusal of validation of a financial statement, the Court of Auditors may propose to the Minister of Finance to apply art. 107 of the Public Finance Act in respect of an audited organisation which violates the law or systematically fails to comply with the recommendations given until the infringements are resolved. (2) The proposal under para. 1 may not contain measures leading to the cessation of the activity of the organisation concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u120	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 53 in its version of the Commission report. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u121	The application of the Administrative Procedure Code. Article 53 supposed by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 53, which becomes art. 55: "Application of the Administrative Procedure Code" Art. 55. (1) For outstanding matters in the proceedings under art. 38 54 The provisions of Chapters 2 and 5 and 7 of the Administrative Code shall apply accordingly. (2) Final audit reports and opinions shall not be subject to litigation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u122	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 53 by importer, which becomes art. 54... The name is "Applying the Administrative Procedure Code." This is art. 53 by importer, which becomes art. 55 in the version of the Commission report. Vote art. 55. And where did art. 54? [[Reply from rapporteur Diana Yordanova.]] Why is it not noted in the Report that numbering is skipped by one member because art. 54 going to another systematic place? [[Reply from rapporteur Diana Yordanova.]] It should be noted here when renumbering where one text goes. Your report isn't regular. Vote art. Art. 53, which becomes art. 55. Vote 95 MPs: 75 against 11, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u123	A financial audit. Article 54 supposed by the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 3 and does not support it in the rest. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 54: "Financial audit" Art. 54. (1) The Court of Auditors shall carry out a financial audit of: 1. the annual financial statements of the budgetary organisations 2. the annual financial statements of municipalities for which the total amount of the expenditure reported on the budget, the accounts of the European Union funds and the accounts of the foreign funds for the previous year exceeds 10 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. other financial statements where provided for by law. (2) The Court of Auditors shall carry out financial audits of the annual financial statements of municipalities for which the total amount of the expenditure reported under the budget, the accounts of the European Union funds and the accounts of foreign funds for the previous year shall not exceed 10 million. BGN, at a frequency determined by it or on the basis of a risk assessment. (3) Financial audits shall be carried out in accordance with that law, internationally recognised audit standards and the acts of the Court of Auditors. (4) The periodic accounts for the implementation of the budgets, the accounts for funds from the European Union and the accounts for foreign funds, as well as the working accounts of the persons under para. 1 shall be made available to the Court of Auditors for a preliminary study, risk assessment and ongoing control as an interim stage in the implementation of the financial audit of the annual financial statement. (5) The order and time limits for submission to the Court of Auditors of the accounts under para. 1 and 4 shall be determined by the Minister of Finance, in agreement with the Court of Auditors. (6) If the accounts are not presented or submitted after the period under para. 5 The President of the Court of Auditors shall notify the Minister of Finance of specific actions in accordance with its legal powers. (7) The conduct of financial audit under para. 1 shall be carried out by order of the responsible Vice-President. (8) The Head of the Audit Team shall draw up a draft audit report and an opinion on the audit carried out with a certificate conclusion, refusal of certification or refusal to express an opinion on the report concerned, subject to the requirements of that law, internationally recognised audit standards and the acts of the Court of Auditors. The audit opinion for the certification of a financial statement may be: 1. an audit opinion for non-reserve certification (non-verified opinion); 2. an audit opinion for non-reserve certification (non-motivated opinion); 3. an audit opinion for reserve certification (qualified opinion). (9) The grounds for forming an audit opinion in a financial audit shall be determined by internationally recognised audit standards. (10) The draft audit report and the opinion under para. 8 shall be verified and approved by the Director of the Directorate concerned, who shall carry out the quality control procedure in accordance with Article 8. 46. (11) The draft audit report and the audit opinion shall be served on the head of the audit organisation or on persons authorised by it. The Head of the audited organisation and/or persons authorised by him may give written observations on the draft audit report and audit opinion served, providing further evidence and/or further written explanations within 14 days of service. (12) Upon written request of the Head of the audited organisation and/or his authorised persons, the responsible Vice-President may extend the term under para. Eleven by seven days. (13) The Vice-President of the Court of Auditors shall draw a reasoned conclusion on the opinions under para. 11 within 14 days of their receipt approving a final audit report and an audit opinion under para. 8, p. One or two. The final audit report and the audit opinion shall be sent within 7 days to the audited organisation. (14) In the case of an audit opinion for certification with reservations, refusal of certification or refusal of expression of opinion, the Vice-President shall draw a reasoned conclusion on the opinions referred to in para. 11 within 14 days of receipt. Within three days of drawing up the conclusion, the Vice-President shall submit the report, the audit opinion, the opinions referred to in para. 11 and the reasoned conclusion. The Court of Auditors shall, by its decision, adopt a final audit report and an audit opinion based on an overall assessment of the evidence, opinions under para. 11 and the conclusion, which may accept or reject, in whole or in part, the conclusion and proposals made to it and accept, amend or revoke, in whole or in part, findings, conclusions, evaluations and recommendations in the audit report and the form of an audit opinion. (15) The Court of Auditors shall send to the head of the audited organisation the final audit report and the audit opinion under para. 14 within 7 days of their adoption. (16) In the event of refusal of certification or refusal of expression of opinion, the Court of Auditors shall inform the Minister of Finance, who may take measures under art. 107 of the Public Finance Act. Where the audit concerns a minor authorising officer with a budget, the audit opinion shall also be sent to the relevant senior authorising officer with a budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u124	You have offered us the Commission's version of art. 54, but in the proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs from all 14 points is supported only by point. 3. You should introduce us to the proposal in its unsupported part. That's on page 51. Except for t. 3, the remaining points should report them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u125	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54 the following changes shall be made: 1. In para. 1 t. 2 acquires the following content: 2. the annual financial statements of the municipalities; 2. Alinea 2 is out; 4. Alinea 4 becomes an al. 3, and the word "ongoing" shall be removed and the expression "ongoing" shall be replaced by the expression "ongoing" being carried out as part of the "ongoing" stage. 5. Alinea 5 and para. 6 becomes respectively. 4 and para. 5. 6. Alinea 7 becomes al. 6 and the expression "the responsible Vice-President' shall be replaced by the expression "the Member of the Court of Auditors'. 7. Alinea 8 becomes al. 7. 8. Alinea 9 becomes al. 8, with the preposition after the expression.. are determined........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 9. Alinea 10 becomes al. 9 containing the following: The draft audit report and the opinion referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 7 are subject to quality control in accordance with art. 44. 10. Alinea 11 becomes al. 10, such as: (a) in a sentence first, the membership of the word..................................................................................... (b) a new sentence shall be created second: "If the draft audit report contains grounds for a qualified opinion, refusal of certification or refusal to express an opinion, the head of the audit team, before service, shall be obliged to familiarise the head of the audit organisation with the project and the grounds for modification. (c) the second sentence becomes a third sentence with the following content: the Managing Authority of the audited organisation and/or its authorised persons may provide additional explanations or additional evidence within 7 days. 11. Alinea 12 and para. 13 drop out; 12. Alinea 14 becomes al. 11 with the following content: The Court of Auditors shall, by its decision, adopt the audit report and the audit opinion on a proposal from the relevant member of the Court of Auditors, who shall also report the additional explanations and evidence under para. 10, if any. 13. Alinea 15 becomes al. 12, such as: (a) the words the final audit officer shall be replaced by the audit officer; (b) the words under para. (c) the words "7 days' shall be replaced by "14 days'. 14. So far, the Al. 16 becomes para. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u126	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u127	Madam President, honourable Members! We are all tired, but I would ask you to pay attention to the sentiment in our proposal, and that is that 160 municipalities are proposed to be exempt from auditing. Dear colleagues, 10 million times 160 municipalities again makes 1 billion. 600 million. BGN, which importers propose not to be audited. Why, dear colleagues?! Based on what comparative analyses? Is there a written opinion from the Court of Auditors that it cannot carry out its duties? Well, 25 years of community checks out without a problem. The question arises: how come suddenly someone has judged, without any numbers, without any arguments, without the opinion of the Court of Auditors, that it cannot cope with these 160 municipalities?! Isn't that kind of weird?! In the vote we have already given up the Court of Auditors to audit billions of Bulgaria's participations in levs if the state participation is below 50% and one hundredth. Now we don't want to audit 160 municipalities. Take note, they will be audited periodically at the discretion of the Court of Auditors. Dear colleagues, we are in a democratic state. Today, one of the government may be tempted to send checks to opposition municipalities before elections. But colleagues, tomorrow you will be in opposition. Then the Court of Auditors will send checks to your mayors. The mechanism is very simple.. you choose ten municipalities, which you define under brilliant terms and regulations, implementation of the budget, you send a check to ten municipalities, and in the other 100 you do not send before the elections. What's the score? What kind of practice is this? Where did you get it? What country of the European Union has such approaches?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u128	What are you doing right now?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u129	Our main argument in this case is that the determination of the frequency of the checks and the so-called risk-sharing is purely subjective. Colleagues, we must not allow this important national body to be managed on subjective decisions of anyone. Once again there are no arguments, there are no numbers proving that the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria is so overloaded that it cannot check these 160 municipalities. I'm giving you one more case. So the Court of Auditors is gonna go check out $50,000. lv. in a mixed company, if the state participation is 51%, but the same team will not go to check the municipality by 9 million. 999 thousand. lv.! So we demand to review this set-up and withdraw this request for the 10 million restriction, as we have no reason to leave about a billion and six hundred million people's money without auditing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u130	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs in his part, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 22, against 58, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 54 in its version of the Commission report. Vote 91 MPs: 69 against 14, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u131	"Reports with opinions on reports on implementation of budgets................................................................................. 55. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55, para. 2 after the word "Save', the word "Sources' shall be added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 55, which becomes art. 56.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u132	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 93 MPs: 16, against 61, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for art. 55, which becomes art. 56. Vote 88 MPs: 77 against 7, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u133	"Notices to competent authorities for taking measures'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 56, which becomes Art. 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u134	We vote. Vote 98 MPs: 84, against 12, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u135	In the case of a criminal offence, the alert shall be notified to the competent authority of the Member State in which Article 57 supposed by the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 57, para. 4 words to be dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 57, which becomes art. 58.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u136	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal by Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 92 MPs: 16, against 61, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 57 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 58 in her report. Vote 98 MPs: 80 against 14, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u137	? Announcement of the audit reports??? Article 58 "A proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58 the following changes shall be made:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u138	There's a piece of support here. The Commission shall support under para. 2 and does not support it in the rest. Read on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u139	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58 the following changes shall be made: In para. 1 the words.. the accounts for... are 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: After its disclosure, the report shall also be published on the website of the organisation under review. 3. In para. 3 words before the final audit report under art. Art. 48, Art. 54, para. The Court of Auditors shall replace 13 and 14 and shall replace them. The Commission supports the proposal for para. 2 sentence first and does not support it in the rest. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 58, which becomes art. 59: ? Announcement of audit reports Art. 59. (1) The Court of Auditors shall disclose the audit reports which shall not constitute a secret protected by law, including the accounts of funds from the European Union, as well as the opinions referred to in art. 56. (2) Disclosure shall be made through the website of the Court of Auditors. (3) Audits carried out shall not be made public prior to the final audit report under art. Art. 48, Art. 54, para. 13 and 14. (4) Reports and opinions under art. 56, para. 2 shall be made public after their entry into the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u140	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal by Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs in the part which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 18, against 65, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 58 by importer, which becomes art. 59, in the version of the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 79, against 3, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u141	"Announcement of other circumstances'. Article 59 supposed by the National Representative Rumen Gechev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 59, which becomes art. 60: ? Disclosure of other circumstances Art. 60. The Court of Auditors shall disclose on its website the failure to comply with the obligations under art. 40, failure to comply with the recommendations given, refusal to dismiss under art. 52, as well as other circumstances defined by a decision of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u142	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 60. Vote 97 MPs: 94 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u143	Annual reports on EU funds and programmes and on the implementation of international acts. Article 60 supposed by the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 60 words to be dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60, which becomes art. 61.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u144	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 20, against 68, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the importer to art. 60, which becomes art. 61, according to the Commission report. Vote 93 MPs: 80 against 12, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u145	The Court of Auditors' report and control on the activities of the Court of Auditors. The Commission supports the name of Chapter Six.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u146	We vote Chapter Six and its name.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u147	Abort the vote and announce the result. Vote 91 MPs: 78 against 9, abstention 4. The proposal for the title of Chapter Six has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u148	Invoicing of reports in the National Assembly.............................................................................. 61. A proposal from the National Representative Yordan Tsonev, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 61, which becomes art. 62: "Introduction of reports to the National Assembly Art. 62. (1) The Court of Auditors shall submit to the National Assembly: 1. reports of opinions on the reports on the implementation of the state budget, the budget of the state social security, the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and the BNB budget expenditure for the previous year; 2. reports of opinions on audits of budgetary systems or significant results for the budgets and other public funds and activities concerned; 3. the audit reports on the audits carried out by a decision of the National Assembly. (2) The National Assembly shall examine the reports under para. 1, t. 1 and 3 within three months of their submission. (3) At the request of the National Assembly or its committee, the Court of Auditors shall provide specific audit reports.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u149	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. Article 61, which in the version of the Commission becomes art. 62. Vote 94 MPs: 81 against 11, abstention 2. The text of the importer for art. Art. 61, which in the version of the Commission becomes art. 62 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u150	"Projects for the consideration of the reports of the institutions of the Member States of the European Union" 62. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 62, which becomes Art. 63: supposes for the examination of audit reports Art. 63. The Court of Auditors may make proposals to the National Assembly and its committees to examine audit reports with important importance for improving budgetary discipline and the management of budgetary and/or other public funds and activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u151	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the Commission's version of art. 63, which by importer has a numbering of 62. Vote 91 MPs: 79, against 2, abstention 10. The Commission's editing of art. 63 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u152	The Court of Auditors shall report on the activities of the Court of Auditors and on the activities of the Court of Auditors. 63. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 63, which becomes Art. 64.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u153	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the Commission's version of art. 64, which by importer has a numbering art. 63. Vote 89 MPs: 78, against 10, abstention 1. The text of the importer for art. Article 63 which, according to the Commission's report, is art. 63. 64, accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u154	"Odit of the Annual Financial Statement of the Court of Auditors" (Art. 64. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 64, which becomes Art. 65: "Audit of the Court of Auditors' annual financial report Art. 65. (1) The annual financial statement of the Court of Auditors shall be audited by an independent committee involving at least two statutory auditors. (2) The number and composition of the Committee under para. 1 shall be determined by the National Assembly. (3) The report of the Committee on the Report under para. 1 shall be submitted to the National Assembly together with the Court of Auditors' activity report for the relevant year. (4) The President of the Court of Auditors may give a written opinion on the report under para. 3 which applies to it and is submitted to the National Assembly. (5) The report under para. 3 shall be made public after its adoption by the National Assembly together with the opinion under para. 4. (6) The costs of carrying out the audit under para. 1 shall be at the expense of the Court of Auditors' budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u155	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the proposed version by the Commission for art. Art. 65, which by importer is art. 64. Vote 92 MPs: 76 against 11, abstention 5. The Commission's editing in its report on art. 65 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u156	..criminal administrative provisions.. The Commission shall support the name of Chapter 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u157	Please vote on the name of Chapter 7, supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 75 against 7, abstention 7. The proposal from the importer on the Commission report on the name of Chapter 7 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u158	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 65, which becomes art. 66: Art. 66. (1) For violation of art. 40, para. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 57, para. 2 guilty persons are punished with a fine from 1000 to 5000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 fine is from 2000 to 10 000 leva. (3) In the event of obstruction of the verification under art. 40, para. 4 a penalty of 2000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed on the person......................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u159	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the Commission's version of art. Art. 66, which by importer is art. 65. 90 MPs voted: 75, against 11, abstention 4. The Commission's editing of art. 66, according to her report, has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u160	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66, which becomes Art. 67.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u161	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the text of the importer for art. 66 which, according to the version of the Commission, becomes art. 67. Vote 89 MPs: 77 against 11, abstention 1. The importer's proposal for art. Article 66 which, according to the Commission's report, becomes art. 77, accepted. Dear Members of the National Assembly, the time is 11.30. I'm calling a 30-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u162	Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs so as not to become a tradition by name check after the break. Let's try it, Mrs. Yordanova. We will continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Additional provision'. The Commission supports the name of the subdivision. Proposal of the MPs Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. It is the verification that includes the actions to collect and analyse financial and non-financial information to assess the management of budgetary and other public funds and activities and the accountability of the audited entity with a view to improving them. 2. "Financial audit' means an independent audit opinion as to whether the annual financial statement of the budgetary organisation gives a true and fair view of its financial situation and assets in accordance with the identified common financial reporting framework. 3. It is the verification of financial management and control systems, including internal audit and management decisions in relation to the organisation, planning, management, reporting and control of budgetary and other public funds and activities in the audited organisation with a view to complying with the requirements of the regulations, internal acts and contracts. 4. The implementation programme shall be the verification of planning, implementation and control activities at all levels of management in the audited entity with a view to their effectiveness, efficiency and economy, such as: (a) the degree of achievement of the objectives of the entity under investigation when comparing the actual and expected results of its activity; (b) The maximum results of the resources used in carrying out the activity of the audited entity shall be achieved; (c) The acquisition with the smallest cost of the resources needed to carry out the activity of the audited entity shall be subject to resource quality requirements. 5. "Oditated organisation" is any organisation that is subject to audit as required by this law. 6. The audits carried out under the terms and conditions of a special law shall be carried out. They may be combined audits that combine financial audit approaches, compliance audit and performance audit. 7. It is the programme, activity or function within a separate audit organisation or within the public sector as a whole that is subject to audit. 8. "Public funds" are the funds within the meaning of § 1, p. 1 of the Additional provision of the Law on Financial Management and Control in the Public Sector. 9. Public assets are public funds, as well as any property which is state or municipal property, or are subject to the rights of budgetary organisations. 10. "Budget organisations" are all legal entities within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 5 of the Additional Provisions of the Public Finance Act. 11. "Financial control' means any form of control relating to the management of public funds and activities carried out through specialised powers and procedures, including budgetary control, financial inspection control, tax control, customs control and the like. 12. The offence committed within one year of the entry into force of the criminal decree punishing the offender for the same type of infringement shall be repeated. 13. "Internationally recognized standards for the performance of the performance of the tasks referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 (a) Audit standards issued by the Audit Standards Committee of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (ISSAI); (b) International Standards on Auditing issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), suitable for financial audit of commitments involving additional issues specific to public sector budgetary organisations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u164	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Before going to the vote, honourable Members, let me inform you that young people from the town of Pleven are present on the balcony. [[Applause.]] Now let's get to the vote. First of all, the name supplier provision "The Commission supports the name of the division. They voted 86 MPs: 71, against 4, abstention 11. The name of the division has been accepted. Now let's vote on the Commission's version of § 1. Vote 87 MPs: 73, against 3, abstention 11. Paragraph 1 in the version of the Commission has been adopted. Continue, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u165	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u166	Please vote on the proposal for the name of the division: Vote 95 MPs: 79, against 2, abstention 14. The name of the division is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u167	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u168	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the text of the importer for § 1, which becomes § 2 on the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: 73 against 9, abstention 10. Paragraph 1 by importer which, following the Commission's report, becomes § 2, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u169	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs for § 2: "1." Paragraph 2 shall be deleted; 2. In the event that the proposal under the previous item. 1 for the removal of § 2 is not accepted, the word "one" in the wording of the provision is replaced by the word "three" The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. (1) Within one month of the entry into force of the Law, the National Assembly shall elect a President, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors. (2) Until the election of the President elected in accordance with the repealed Law on the Court of Auditors, the President and Members shall fulfil their duties.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u170	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, although we are in the finals, this is perhaps the most important text in this Law or at least one of the most important texts. I'm surprised the people on the left are missing the ones who most objected to the Law. [[GERB lines.]] What they offer seems to me to give a large extent the design of all their objections. What are they offering? If this paragraph is not available, which actually says that the Court of Auditors' management must be brought into line with the newly adopted law and, accordingly, the envisaged Presidency, two Vice-Presidents and two Members. If that provision is repealed, there is obviously no way for the Court of Auditors to work and work at all, given that it currently consists of nine members. I hope they have no intention of sabotaging the work of the Court of Auditors. The other thing I think, reading the second part of their proposal, if this is not accepted, then let's increase the deadline from one to three months for choosing a new leadership. In fact, I'm wondering how they didn't propose six months, so if they could pass the local elections, you know, live and sound. I will support this text. I think it's important. I hope we can all support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u172	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 23, against 53, abstentioned 17. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2, edited by the Commission, which in the report becomes § 3. Vote 95 MPs: 72 against 13, abstention 10. The Commission's editorial text under § 2 which becomes § 3 in the Commission's report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u173	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs for § 3: Paragraph 3 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ Within three months of the election of the President, Vice-Presidents and Members, the Court of Auditors shall adopt the Rules of Procedure for the structure and organisation of the activities of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u174	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 21, against 51, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's amendments § 3 by importer so that it becomes § 4 by the Commission's report. Vote 92 MPs: 70 against 13, abstention 9. The Commission's version of § 4 of its report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u175	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs for § 4: Paragraph 4 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. Within one month of the adoption of the Rules of Procedure for the structure and organisation of the activities of the Court of Auditors, a contest shall be held for the appointment of the directors of the
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u176	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: 16 against 58 abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's version of § 4 by importer, which is becoming § 5 by the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u177	Vote 89 MPs: 73 against 11, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u178	Paragraph 5. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... The Court of Auditors shall validate and disclose the acts referred to in art. 20, para. 5, t. 2 within 6 months of its election.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u179	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 6 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 98 MPs: 80 against 12, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u180	Paragraph 6. Proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In § 6 the words "the order of this law' at the end of the sentence are replaced by "to date'; The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u181	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First we vote on the proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support it. They voted 93 MPs: 19 against 56, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 7 on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 79 against 11, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u182	Paragraph 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u183	We vote § 8. They voted 99 MPs: 83 against 7, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u184	Paragraph 8. A proposal by Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs to drop paragraph 8. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u185	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 18, against 59, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 9 on the Commission report. 100 MPs voted: 85, against 12, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u186	Paragraph 9. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 108, para. 6 words................................................................................. 54, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 57, para. 1..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u187	Statements? I won't. We vote. Vote 100 MPs: 81 against 8, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u188	Paragraph 10. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In the Health Insurance Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 72, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 54, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 57, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u189	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 11 on the Commission report. Vote 100 MPs: 82 against 8, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u190	Proposal by Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph: ????????????????? In the Public Finance Act (EW, No. 15 from 2013) the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 2 The Union is replaced by a comma and the expression of the Court of Auditors is added after the expression. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42, para. 1 after the comma after the word "Power," the expression "The Court of Auditors' shall be added as an independent part of the state budget and then a comma. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 6 the Union is replaced by a comma and the expression of the Court of Auditors is added after the expression; (b) in para. 7. - the Union is replaced by a comma by the Supreme Judicial Council, and after the expression the expression is added the Court of Auditors; - the Union is replaced by a comma and the expression of the Court of Auditors is added after the expression. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79, para. 1, t. 3 after the word "Power', at the end of the sentence, the expression "On the draft budget of the Court of Auditors' shall be added. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 86, para. 4 The Union is replaced by a comma and the expression of the Court of Auditors is added after the expression. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 107, para. 3 The Union is replaced by a comma and the expression of the Court of Auditors is added after the expression. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal to create a new paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u191	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 19 against 65, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. There is a proposal of Menda Stoyanova, made in the order of art. 80, for the creation of paragraphs 11 and 12. The Commission supports the proposal, they receive a new numbering of paragraphs 12 and 13 and you must inform us of their content.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u192	The Commission proposes to establish § 12 and 13: ................................................................................... In the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 2, para. 1 t. 10 is amended as follows: ..10. the President, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors; § 13. In the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 3 t. 12 is amended as follows: ..12. the President, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors; Here I want to make an editorial amendment to add a missing text: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 2, p. 1 the words "the President and the members of the Court of Auditors' shall be replaced by "the President, the Vice-Presidents and the members of the Court of Auditors'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u193	Do you have it in writing?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u195	Colleagues, the proposal for § 13 has one point in which t. 12 is amended as follows: ..12. the President, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors; There is a new proposal as a supplement to have a new item. 2: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 2, p. 1 the words "the President and the members of the Court of Auditors' shall be replaced by "the President, the Vice-Presidents and the members of the Court of Auditors'. For the transcript, I will provide the written proposal so that you can accurately reflect what the supplement is. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mrs. Yordanova's proposal in the Chamber. Vote 107 MPs: 86 against 16, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on paragraphs 12 and 13 anbloc, and § 13 is already in line with the appendix that has just been adopted by the plenary. We vote. Vote 97 MPs: 81 against 13, abstention 3. The proposal has been adopted and, with this, at second reading and the Law on the Court of Auditors. Mrs. Boyadjieva has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the adopted agenda for this week, we should discuss two important legislations for pre-school and school education and the Law on People's Education. These are bulk bills that require more time. In addition, they are subjects of serious public discussion in Bulgaria. So I suggest that we evaluate and discuss this. 8 and 9 which follow on our agenda, which are two bills related to the synchronization of Bulgarian legislation. I would particularly like to stress that under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, which was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Culture and Media, we have already initiated a procedure by the European Commission under No 258 for sanctions against Bulgaria, because this law had to enter into force until 29 October 2014. This is my reason to propose that these two bills be examined today before the Preschool and School Education Act and the People's Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u197	It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u198	Thank you, Madam President. To some extent, I agree with the proposal that has just been made, but since the order on which it is to be carried out has not been mentioned, I propose that the proposal be adopted to look at these two laws now, but the next point to continue to be the First Voting of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Movement Act, and then to look at the First Voting Draft on Amendment and Supplement to the Copyright and Related Rights Act. We are essentially in favour of this proposal, but we are bringing in the order that needs to be specified so that we can continue our work. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u199	I understand there's a consensus on this. 7 "First vote on the Pre-school and School Education Bill with importer Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, and the People's Education Bill with importer Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs to become so. 9 before parliamentary control. In the rear, in the front, in the front, in the front, in the front, in the front, in the front, in the front, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back, in the back. 8 shall remain the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, etc. 7, with which to proceed immediately after the vote on this proposal, to be the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act. We are voting to move items on the agenda. Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: LEGISLATION LAWS AND CLEARANCE OF THE ROAD MOVE LAW. There have been reports from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u200	Mrs. President, honourable Members, before we begin reading the report, I propose that the following persons should be admitted to the Chamber: Anton Ginev
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u201	Please vote on the proposal made. Vote 76 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 1. Please invite the designated persons to the Chamber. Go on, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u202	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the The Road Traffic Act, No 454-01-35, submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs 5 November 2014 At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 21 January 2015, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act No 454-01-35 was discussed, submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on 5 November 2014. The meeting was attended by Mr. Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Legal Administration, Mrs. Slavka Andreeva, Director of the Directorate of Road Vehicles and Drivers at the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration. On the part of the Ministry of Interior under the Law they were concerned by Mr. Tzvetko Georgiev, Deputy Minister, Anton Antonov, Deputy Director of the Directorate of Public Order and Traffic Control at the General Directorate of the Security Police and Mr. Boyko Ranovski. The meeting was attended and participated in the discussion and representatives of Sofia Municipality and branch organizations. The current system of art. 15, para. 6 of the Road Traffic Act (WTP) does not allow other vehicles, including taxi cars, to move in lanes reserved for the movement of vehicles on public transport lines. According to importers, the proposed change is expected to have a positive effect in the following directions: improving the service and speeding up the movement of citizens who resorted to taxi transport in urban conditions, as well as unloading the central urban area for the benefit of urban and taxi transport; improving the state of the taxi industry, whose services may be expected to become more preferred by citizens. The other proposed change refers to the system of the system of sanctioning of cars with special traffic status. The law provides that it is only to be used where necessary and that in such cases only its provisions of this category of cars are not allowed to be complied with. In addition, when performing tasks requiring the use of the special mode of movement, it is logical not to be subject to sanctions for exceeding speed and the drivers concerned. According to importers, the current system does not distinguish between the cases of use of a special mode of traffic of a vehicle where the latter is not included, which gives in both cases an exception to the obligation to comply with the provisions of the TDCA for drivers, including speed exceeding. The proposed changes are also expected to have a disciplinary effect on drivers of similar cars with a special mode of movement. With regard to the draft Law submitted by the Ministry of Interior, the following comments were made: The amendment to Art. 1. 15, para. 6 of the DPA, authorising the movement of taxi cars when carrying passengers or passengers in road lanes, signalled for the movement of vehicles from regular public passenger lines only, is inappropriate for the following reasons: - the establishment of separate road lanes for the movement of only vehicles from regular public passenger lines is intended to alleviate and ensure better conditions for the movement of this particular type of vehicle, given their specific function to carry a significant number of passengers along a particular route and schedule; - drivers of passenger cars have the opportunity to choose a shorter or more unloaded route when carrying passengers; - the trend that the subjective factor in monitoring compliance with traffic rules is kept to a minimum implies that control is carried out by video surveillance systems and automated technical devices that do not allow for the determination of the presence of passenger/travellers in a vehicle which, in turn, makes control impossible. According to experts, there is no need to change art. 189, para. 6, p. 2 of the DTP, after the current text, the offence was carried out by a vehicle with a special mode of movement. The point is replaced by a comma and text is added when the special mode is included, as in careful reading of the current text of art. 189, para. 6, p. 2 and the text of Art. Reg. 91, para. 1 of the DCI it is necessary to conclude that the text of art. 189, para. 6, p. 2 of the DVD refers precisely to those vehicles which give simultaneously a light signal with a flashing blue and/or red light and a special sound signal. Following the opinions and debates held, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 3 votes for the Road Traffic Act, No 454-01-35, submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on November 5, 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u203	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadjov. Please also submit the report on the other bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 454-01-62, submitted by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs on 11 December 2014. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 21 January 2015, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act was discussed, No 454-01-62, submitted by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs on 11 December 2014. The meeting was attended by Mr. Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Law at the Ministry; Mr. Tzvetko Georgiev, Deputy Minister of Interior, and Mr. Anton Antonov, Deputy Director of the Directorate of Public Order Protection and Control of the Road Traffic at the Directorate of Security Police in the Ministry. The bill was presented by the MP Mr. Ivan Valkov. The draft amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act provides for changes related to the implementation of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria to introduce the requirements of Directive 2011/82/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on facilitating the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences. The directive provides for cooperation to exchange information on the following categories of road offences: - speeding; - not using a safety belt; - non-stop red signal on the traffic light; - driving after drinking; - driving after using tranquilizers; - non-compliance with the requirement to wear a safety helmet; - use of forbidden lanes for movement; - illegal use of a mobile phone or other communication means while driving. Another part of the proposed amendments to the Road Traffic Act are related to the Interpretation Decision No 1 of 2014 of the Supreme Administrative Court. It suspended the implementation of administrative criminal liability for violations of the Road Traffic Act by issuing an electronic ticket in carrying out control by mobile technical means. According to representatives of the Ministry of Interior in the first months after the adoption of the Interpretation Decision, the number of deaths and injuries has increased significantly. It was explained to the members of the committee that the use of mobile technical equipment is an automated process in which the only intervention of a control body is limited to positioning and setting of the automated technical device. Attention was also paid to the fact that all automated technical means "mobile and stationary" have undergone a metrology check under the Measurement Act, including the software for processing the evidence, and have been put into service in strict compliance with the regulations. In order to ensure the rights of citizens and to establish objective truth in the event of a possible judicial appeal to electronic slips, a text is provided in the Bill, according to which the administrative file to be sent to the court, in addition to the evidence supporting the electronic slip under appeal, shall also be provided with information on the section of a road with a description of the place and coordinates, the speed limitation in force under art. 21, the direction of movement of the vehicle, the schematic of the location of the automated technical device, its type, the date of the latest metrology check. The submitted bill also provides for the creation of an explicit legal basis for issuing an act to the Minister of Interior to regulate in detail the conditions and arrangements for the use of automated technical tools and control systems. A provision shall also be established on the order to designate the control places by placing road signs or publicity in the mass media, as well as on the website of the Ministry of Interior. On the basis of the debates and opinions held, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, unanimously proposed to the National Assembly with 15 votes to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Road Traffic Act, No 454-01-62, submitted by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs on 11 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u205	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadjov. I will now ask you to submit the report on the third bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 502-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2015. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 21 January 2015, a draft amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act was discussed, No 502-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Tzvetko Georgiev, Deputy Minister of Interior, and Mr. Anton Antonov, Deputy Director of the Directorate of Public Order Protection and Control of Road Traffic at the General Directorate of Security Police. The bill was presented by Mr. Anton Ginev. The purpose of the proposed amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Act is to comply with European Union law as regards child restraint systems regulated in Commission Implementing Directive 2014/37/EU of 27 February 2014 amending Council Directive 91/671/EEC on the mandatory use of safety belts and child restraint systems in vehicles. That Directive allows the approval of child restraint systems in vehicles of UNECE Regulation No 44 for uniform provisions concerning the approval of child restraint systems in motor vehicles or the newly introduced UNECE Regulation No 129 for uniform provisions concerning the approval of advanced child restraint systems in motor vehicles (in force from 9 July 2013.). UNECE Regulation No 129 reflects technical progress in several respects of child restraint systems: lateral impact tests, back-facing child restraint systems up to 15 months, compatibility with different vehicles and others. With the proposed change of art. 149, para. 3, p. 1 is achieved full compliance with the text of point 1. 2.1.2 of Annex I to Directive 2001/85/EC, eliminating the requirement that Class A motor vehicles are primarily The representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications explained that the deadline for the introduction into the Bulgarian legislation of the Commission Implementing Directive 2014/37/EU of 27 February 2014 amending Council Directive 91/671/EEC expired on 20 September 2014. In this regard, the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union received an official notification letter No C (2014) from the European Commission to initiate infringement procedure No 2014/0497 for non-transposing of the Directive within a period of time, therefore the examination of the Law should be speeded up as far as possible. Following the debates on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, unanimously proposed to the National Assembly by 15 votes to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Road Traffic Act, No 502-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u207	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadjov. Honourable Members, allow me to inform you that we have not received reports from the Internal Security and Public Order Committee from the European Affairs and Control Committee and the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports. We proceed to opinions on behalf of the importers. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Valkov, come in. Then Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will present to you the reasons for the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Traffic, to which I am a co-owner. Together with my fellow Members, we have made two main proposals. The first proposal relates to the implementation of the amendments to the European Directive 2011, which concerns the safety of traffic cross-border exchange of road offences in the Member States of the European Union. The main road offences covered by the Directive are: speeding, not using a safety belt, not stopping a red traffic light signal, driving a motor vehicle after use of alcohol, driving a motor vehicle after use of tranquilizers, non-compliance with the requirement to wear a safety helmet, use of a prohibited traffic bar, illegal use of a mobile phone or other communication means during driving. The time limits for replies, follow-up by the control authorities and a national contact point are laid down. The other amendment, which we propose with the amendments and additions to the Bill, relates to Decision No 1 of the Supreme Administrative Court of 2014, which stopped the use of mobile cameras when speeding. As a result, we are all witnessing reduced road control in 2014, resulting in more than 280 thousand infringements reported less in terms of speed, i.e. infringements that were detected in 2013, and in 2014 there should be fewer road accidents and casualties that are not observed. On the contrary, we have more than 8% more victims on the roads, which is why we believe it is imperative that the mode of mobile cameras be restored, but that this should be in line with the instructions of the Supreme Administrative Court. It should mainly be mentioned that this process is automated. The same violations, which are detected with stationary cameras, in the same way to be detected with mobile cameras. In this regard, we can say that a provision is being created that accurately identifies the control places by placing road signs or making public in the mass media. The processing and issuing of the electronic ticket shall also be carried out fully automated. What we need to know is that no financial means are necessary to implement these amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Act. We believe that this will enable a completely impartial and objective control. In this regard, I would like to thank all MPs from all the political forces who supported the bill and voted for its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u209	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. This was an opinion on behalf of the importers of the bill with importers Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. On behalf of the importers of the bill with importers Petar Slavov and a group of MPs come in, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, as you have heard from both the motives and the report of the committee responsible, we are talking about two main proposals. One concerned the possibility that taxi cars, when transporting a passenger, would use the van lanes by accident. The second proposal was that cars with special traffic regime should not be automatically released within the meaning of the Law if they were filmed by the cameras of the DMV for speeding or violations committed, but to check whether they were acting on a specific task, or for example simply moving, and then they should have followed the Rules. That was an interesting discussion. There's been a lot of opinions. With regard to the proposal for taxi cars, when transporting passengers, which, by the way, there is a practice in quite European countries, I can think of at the moment about Britain, about Germany, there are others, too, is a good thing and is aimed at encouraging the use of urban transport to which additional taxi transport will appear. To stimulate more people to stay their private cars at home, because they will have a quick and convenient way to move in the urban environment with urban transport and taxis. Unfortunately, however, it turned out that in Bulgaria the infrastructure is far from so well developed, especially with regard to the bus lanes. They are, in fact, extremely insufficient, especially in large cities, which is why a lot of problems may arise. In this direction were the reservations that were received as opinions. I accept that it is obviously necessary to think about this, I think, a poor idea and possibly in the future, including thinking about an option where we do not give general permission to the whole country, but to allow each municipality specifically for a particular van band, with the corresponding indication to allow the movement of such taxi cars when carrying a passenger. There is such a practice in Germany, by the way, and that is how the issue is resolved. With regard to the second point, a statement was received from the Ministry of Interior for cars with special mode of movement, which shares this interpretation of the Law and expresses the position that they actually interpret the Law in this way at the moment. Thus, the need to refine the provision in the way that we proposed largely falls away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u211	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. On behalf of the author of the third draft law, does the Council of Ministers want anyone to take a stand? No. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u212	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the BDZ Parliamentary Group, I would like to say that we consider the proposal of Mr. Karadjov and Mr. Slavov very reasonable in terms of taxis. In general, we will support this Law as we believe it is timely and necessary. We really hope that something as sensible, normal and accepted in many European countries, such as the practice of taxis moving in van lanes, will ever happen in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u213	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB, I will allow myself to give back an opinion. This is not how we support Mr. Slavov's submitted Bill. I think that in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications we have had the opportunity to express all our considerations. There's no point in embarrassing them in front of the court right now. Whoever had an interest back then, I think he understood. In short, I would mention that under current legislation it is very difficult to control a taxi car whether it is with a passenger or without a passenger on the territory of the bus lane. A large number of these violations are detected through automated type-approvals and it is difficult to see on one camera photo whether the taxi is with a passenger or without a passenger. By adopting such a law, we would put in a delicate situation the taxi operators themselves and may have to be sanctioned even in cases where they are with a passenger. Just imagine that the passenger is in the back seat, and when detected by the technical means, it will not be visible whether the vehicle is with a passenger or without a passenger. Motives were made that there would almost be special signs that he was with a passenger, his light would glow red, that he was busy. Just to tell you that currently the technical means that report this type of violations, the photos are black and white and there is no way to see whether the light for a busy signal or for a free one. Therefore, we will not support the submitted bill by Mr. Slavov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u215	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u216	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria in the Commission, we have abstained from voting, not because we do not support the meaning of the text concerning the movement of taxi cars in the bus lane, but because we believe that there are certain additional options and the text in this version is not sufficiently discussed. It can be improved and expanded. On the one hand, I think that a greater discussion should be made with both taxi drivers, on the other hand, and with municipalities, which practically have the greatest information and the best idea of how public transport should move in their settlements and, of course, the regulation of the activity as a taxi activity itself. It should be further developed in the direction of the regulation and the profession itself taxi driver. It is for this reason that we generally support the idea of unloading traffic in this way, giving the actual taxis the opportunity to move in the van lane. We were presented with data that in Sofia especially every minute a bus is moving and so on. We all have a visual idea of what's going on along the Tsarigradsko shose, for example. The actual van tape is almost all the time free, except for the moments in which the buses move, but this does not make such a load on the bus bar. At peak moments, if overload occurs, the transport may be delayed. It is for this reason that we must look for the possibility for taxis to be an element of public transport and to be viewed somewhat in this direction. If a better regulation is made in this regard, we could allow municipalities to assess how effective it would be for them to ease their transport in the settlements. For this reason, I say again, we in the Commission abstained. Today I will support this Law with the idea that if you pass at first reading, between first and second reading to look for additional opportunities, although if you do what I suggest, I give the bill that changes will not be editorial within the meaning of this text. It will not be very easy, but a new legislation I think can be regulated. I will now support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u217	Thank you, dear Mr. Gorov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u218	Mr. Chairman, I'll be as brief as possible. Dear colleagues! Mr. Gorov, let me remind you that bus lanes do not only move cars from public transport, but also cars with special mode. Can you imagine in this number of taxi cars, taking for example in the territory of Sofia, and if they all move in the bus lane, what chaos would that cause?! How will a car with special mode drive be an ambulance, a fire station and so on?! Do not look at the load of the bus bar only from the point of view of the buses from the public transport, but as a kind of emergency lane on which cars with special traffic mode are moving.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u219	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Any other lines? Come in for a second line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u220	I'm going to say something very important. Mr. Gorov, as Mr. Mihov mentioned, you are talking about Sofia. In our conversation with Mr. Slavov he said that this Bill is also the meaning of the laws is not made for a particular city. He had an idea to expand his proposal. Whether taxi cars will move in bus lanes or not, his idea is to develop it in the direction of being allowed by municipal councils, which is correct. So let us not narrow down the law by looking only at Sofia, Constantinople Road. Indeed, there is a resonant, it can be thought in such a way that in the future wider discussions can be made. Mr. Slavov, an opinion of the Association of Municipalities and so on can be asked whether they can engage in such activity, whether this would lead to better movement, unloading of traffic and so on. Mr. Gorov, not to mention such radical ideas to make taxis public transportation. Public transport also has a social function. I don't know if you're familiar with the distribution of money, but let's not confuse the notions and not throw such grand ideas. In principle, Mr. Slavov's idea must be developed in the future. Again, refrain from such suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u221	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Gorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I do not see why I should refrain from such ideas, given that there are a number of places where taxi transport is part of public transport.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u223	Public transport is one thing, and public passenger transport is another.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u224	We will most likely continue this debate in the future. As for the first line, I agree in principle with what you say. I know that van tapes are used by ambulances, fire trucks and special traffic vehicles. For this reason, I have clarified that we need a wider debate, a wider discussion in this direction. Let us make sure that all parties in this process are satisfied. As for municipalities, I also suggested this, and I believe that regulation regarding the use of van tapes in the locality should be given as an opportunity to the municipal councils to assess whether this would be useful in the respective city and whether they want it, whether it is good or not. I set an example for Sofia and Tsarigradsko shose, because here is one of the brightest indicators, you can best see what are the possibilities of the bus bar to unload the movement in peak hours. From this point of view, I generally agree with some of the lines that were made for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u225	Thank you, dear Mr. Gorov. For speech there is the word of the people representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will personally vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act proposed by Mr. Valkov as abstention. I'll explain why. I dare say that I am the journalist who gave the discussion about how legal the cameras are, and not just the mobile ones, but also the stationary ones. The proposed texts turn every driver, shot from a camera, to a presumption of guilt. Dear colleagues, the first cruel problem that came with the cameras was that these cameras represent two components. One component shall be the recording device which shall comply with the relevant characteristics and requirements. In other words, the speed of filming, the number of footage, not to explain them purely technically, which are not affected anywhere. The second component is a radar device which is a measuring instrument and is subject to metrological control. In other words, a scandal broke out in 2011, which proved that all stationary and mobile cameras were practically non-metrologically controlled. In other words, they are an unfit device for measuring and proving guilt. Currently, text is included in the proposed texts that says: "When you are notified to receive data about the device that shot you. Gentlemen, only we are in the 21st century. The first condition in order to avoid human interference, in other words, the handling of data from mobile and stationary cameras, is to be linked to the relevant administrative centre. In other words, each person must have the right to carry out subsequent judicial control and to set up the components on the basis of which he can defend himself. This means that there must be evidence of past metrological control, a unique number of the device concerned, called the "I D', which does not exist. What do you suggest? In addition, it is not true that road accidents are caused by speeding. Do your work. I've done a special research and you'll see that the vast majority of traffic accidents acts contain the expression "inappropriate speed." However, inadequate speed does not mean speeding. To understand, I'll give you an example. You are moving on a road in the dark, in the evening the vast majority of the roads in Bulgaria are unlit, on top of it raining and heavy rain. You're in a hole because you can't see the hole. It's filled with water mass and you're carrying out a traffic accident without any guilt. You might even hit a man for the simple reason you can't react. In the act will be written......inappropriate I'm asking you, what does the so-called camera help here? I'm going to move on to make it clear to you. In the legal system on the wording of the device, the Ministry of Interior was in the situation to record in the acts data on mobile cameras that did not exist at all. The court has fallen into a paradoxical situation to record that he is officially aware of the fact that such mobile cameras do not exist. Only they got 30,000 people in trouble, and they didn't have anything to do with it. Thus, the proposed text brings us into the role of lawmakers on money collection boxes, which I cannot agree with, fellow Members. I suggest you reconsider these texts. For example, what does the text "using a mobile phone" mean? Sorry, it's the 21st century. Here's your cell phone. [[shows him]] which I don't need an extra device for, what's called, "Hands Free" so I can use my phone on a stand, on a speaker and talk. And you're gonna punish me that my phone is working just because I don't have an extra hands-free device that I don't need at all. Think about it! Are we going to the 21st century? Are we talking high-tech, or are we going back to the 20th century with the headphones and the shenanigans? So you haven't refined this text either. You can't punish people for having stands that cost 5 BGN. You hang up your phone, you put it on speaker, and you have a quiet conversation. That means tomorrow you'll punish me for listening to the radio in your car. Guys, take a good look at your stuff. Think about the lyrics and don't turn every road leader into a potential culprit and almost a potential criminal because you didn't bother to set things straight. I am ready to help everyone in this area because I have made a great effort to examine the entire system. I'm going to ask you: Do you know how to download the data from the so-called stationary cameras? Do you know how to take them off? A policeman goes, puts a ladder, pulls out a flash drive, puts the flash drive in the camera, and then, if I have to tell you, you've already created a cause for corruption. Two people are usually in the police station who have been trained accordingly. If these two people are gone, everyone else is incapable of issuing acts on these cameras. However, you allow a file in the drive saved in the camera to be deleted or not to be seen at all. In other words, you create a prerequisite for corruption. So I told you that these cameras have to be centrally connected, as are the cash registers, vending machines and so on. Until this thing happens, you cannot, by one decree, take away the duties of the legislator and give the contractor the opportunity to decide what to do by decree. Believe me, personally, I will now vote abstention if necessary, I will persuade the group to vote against. The texts have not been cleared and have not been done properly. The least you could do is come over and comment on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u227	Why didn't you come to the Commission? Where should we go? Your place? [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u228	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, I will only make a replica of a part of your speech, as it was quite spacious all over the saga with mobile cameras. My request is only when we talk about the Road Traffic Act, to distinguish ourselves, that is, to distinguish when we are journalists and when we are legislators. The view is different, as are road users. Mr. Bayraktarov, you're saying that the uncoordinated speed does not cause traffic accidents. I'll just tell you that speeding always kills. Only speeding kills! It's only speeding that breaks the driver's head, the passenger's head, the pedestrian's head. There's nothing else. You may have been drinking, but thanks to speeding, because you've been drinking, the guy's dying. The inconclusive speed and at 30 km, it is still inadequate. However, the victims were caused by speeding. As a result of the failure of the cameras in just one year, the victims are over 100 more. Whether they're a result of that or not, I don't want to guess. I think that contributed. Lack of control gives freedom to drivers and a sense of impunity makes you drive more irresponsiblely, thus exceeding speed and heavy accidents occur. About the phones. The law doesn't say you can't use a phone posture. You can't use a phone with your hands. Free hands! I mean, if your phone is on the stand, you can talk as much as you want and no one will sanction you for this thing. The point is not to hold it and talk to each other, because the hand is not free. The idea is to free your hand. That's not the issue with smoking. Bring him in, we'll take a look at him. I'm done with the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u230	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Grozdan Karadjov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u231	I would like to draw attention to two facts which, perhaps due to the speed with which the report was read, were not taken into account. First of all, it is not true that mobile and stationary devices of the type of cameras have not undergone metrology control. On the contrary, an explicit text provides that only such cameras can be used to detect speed. As far as the line is concerned, we're turning the control organs into a piggy bank. The only role that the control body has in relation to these mobile and stationary devices is in positioning and setting them, i.e. unlocking them and positioning them. From then on, the devices are completely automated. Whoever is from the Ministry of Interior can explain in detail, if you wish, how to download the information from them. In any case, however, there is no interference with people. One of the objectives of this amendment in the Road Traffic Act is to avoid interfering with people and not turn the control body into an authority on unregulated collection of money by drivers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u232	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadjov. Third line, Mr. Dimitrov. While Mr. Dimitrov, honourable colleagues, guests of the balcony are our students from the Thirty-second Secondary Education School. Kliment Ohridski. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u233	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm listening to the debate. I like a lot of things. Others don't. One thing has not become clear to me: the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Transport, control bodies, the Committee on Traffic Safety, all have spoken on the basis of experience, routine, etc. They've made wonderful suggestions. One of them is when you make your hands free and don't bother running the phone, texting and so on. As far as I can tell, there's a whole theory as to why your hand should be free and you should be able to safely and safely manage the movement. In this regard, I see an accuracy, a failure in the law that must be avoided. For the drivers you have understood that you should rule with handsfree, so-called free hands. And the honourable control authorities and police officers with which part of the body guide the corpse of the radio station until they accept the highly important messages in the performance of their duties? What radio stations in the Ministry of Interior have Handsfrey? Did they turn them on with a foot or another part of the body? Certainly not with your hands. The control authorities that sanction me for not using handsfree, do they have free hands while using the radio? If you'll resolve this, I'll support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u234	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Bajraktarov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad there's a debate going on, because the debate really makes the right decisions. Mr. Svilensky, you must have been listening to me wrong. I said that when you look at the acts, you will see that most traffic accidents are due to inadequate speed. At no point have I said, and I have not encouraged the speeding drivers, to whom I am much more extreme and often call them jigiti. You can be sure that I am one of the fiercest opponents, as I consider myself a fairly exemplary driver and driver. For years, I haven't even got one ticket. You can check it out. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] Of course, there is always a first time, but in its humble 30-year practice as a driver of a motor vehicle... What my colleague Emil Dimitrov suggested, I wanted you to think about something else. You're practically guilty if you keep the phone in your hand. You won't be guilty if instead of the phone in your hand there's a cup of coffee because I've seen those who drink their coffee; you won't be guilty if you hold a cigarette and smoke; as Mr. Boychev reminds me to put on lipstick; you won't be guilty if a young lady with 15 centimeters of thin heels and practically... [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] It's only your fault if you have a phone in your hand. What if you're in a hurry for a TV show and you have an electric razor in your hand?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u236	Let's not turn this into a circus debate!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u237	Not in a circus, mate! You can't blame the guy for holding a phone. He can listen to a radio on this phone. So don't talk to me, just punctuate the lyrics. The colleague Dimitrov told you very accurately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u238	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. To speak, the People's Representative Yavor Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I intend to start with an application, perhaps a personal interest or a conflict, in fact I do not know how to define it. Many of you know that I am a lawyer by profession. Road accidents, which are the basis of some criminal and civil processes, are a large part of the work I have done in my professional career. By the way, I'm not out of the bar, so I'm making this note. At the same time, I draw the relevant self-esteem to say that I have an overview of the practice of these cases in the order of administrative cases in connection with appeals, identified accidents, issued acts and penal decrees, something which is a direct topic of the currently proposed amendments. I also have a look at the purely human side of the tragedies that arise from road accidents, for reasons leading from which is the high speed, controlled by these instruments, which we are now talking about and arguing about. Today we are discussing three bills and immediately I say that two of them are indisputable, in my view, and we do not have any comments and any doubts in that they will be supported. We are talking about the bills with importers Mr. Ivan Valkov and the importer of the Council of Ministers. These bills we find meaningful, meaningful and subjective to the protection of people's health and lives. The motivational part of our bills shows quite convincing data showing that, during this period, one of the draft laws concerns texts that have been working for some time until their termination in the light of Decision No 1 of the Supreme Administrative Court, the results of the action of the control bodies in this way, which is proposed to be resumed now, are sufficiently convincing to be able to pass them lightly. What we can counter as concrete hypotheses, such as misunderstandings, such as weaknesses in writing and editing these texts pales in comparison to the statement that I accept as a pure coin that at the moment when the control bodies have ceased the possibility of controlling speed with mobile cameras, to punish the guilty and street drivers with electronic slips, the road victims have increased by a specific number. I think we don't have time to waste when the indicator of this time is expressed in human lives, whatever we talk about the formal side of things and the way the texts will be written in terms of legal culture or precision. Let us support these bills and if there are fluctuations in this part, they will be really claimed and used the possibilities for supplementing and adjusting between first and second reading as basically the bills receive our support. I find that to be the right approach. I am talking in general about the two bills, because the way it is being secured, the passive safety of traveling children in cars should not be alien to us either. We can't pass it lightly. Let's vote on what the importers propose, with a view to moving forward an hour rather than these two bills. No considerations on the grounds that the protection of those referred to as offenders is not complete are not, I assure you, meaningful and justified. The judicial control of the acts of the control authorities and the penal decrees issued in cases of refusal of voluntary settlement of the fine imposed is sufficiently reliable and sufficiently guarantees the rights of the Bulgarian citizens. We will support these two bills in the forthcoming vote, precisely for the sake of preserving the higher real values that these two laws have to protect. The first bill, which has been tabled and has been reported to our attention, with importer Mr. Peter Slavov. We find that the presentation and statement of the importers themselves acknowledged the weaknesses that this bill currently contains. The need, which Mr. Slavov pointed out, probably on behalf of the importers, that these texts should be developed, to be refined, is quite, quite obvious. We're talking about opening Pandora's box and in a regulated situation where in the bus lanes, excuse me, but it's a legal term, he's present in the Road Traffic Act, we're going to launch other motor vehicles with a completely different characteristic and pattern of behavior of their drivers, which is caused by the activity they perform. It was mentioned that, first of all, these lanes would enter vehicles that would not stop at the designated stops and stops and would not comply with the appropriate timetable. Well, in these van lanes in several settlements, trolleybuses move. We know that when trolleybuses are moving, their specifics, trajectory and the possibility of vehicles being shifted into the order of motion is strictly limited due to their attachment to the power grid. In this place, if taxi cars are allowed to move, it means that by swinging off a sidewalk, the taxi driver will be able to enter the bus lane, stop to pick up passengers, unload luggage, stay in order to settle an account with these passengers in a place that is not a stop, and a place that will definitely hinder the movement of others. How many buses do they have to line up behind him to wait for him, or do they have to bypass the stopped car by entering the active lanes of the lively movement? Excuse me, we are going to create situations that we may not imagine in their fullness, and we should really comment on the need and the possibilities to increase the flow of traffic in such places with available van strips, but really under the strict assessment of municipalities, and specifically, individually, with the setting of clear signs, which there is no obstacle to being placed in the current existing regulation. Marked in this way, the bus lanes will also allow the movement of such cars. If we have to somewhere, we can agree to all cars, all vehicles moving there. I mean, the purpose of the van lanes is gone. With regard to the special regime. It seems to me that terminologically, or rather in interpretation, is the problem. Mr. Slavov also gave us the opportunity to properly assess his idea. It is good that this issue is being put to debate, it is being discussed. I hope for the positive and preventive effect on drivers of special mode vehicles, but indeed correct, correct reading of the current norm means exactly what is intended and stated as a motive by importers, namely that they can use the possibility not to fully comply with traffic rules, only when they have a special traffic regime on them. This situation would remain unchanged if we accepted the proposal. In that sense... [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] I'm graduating. Excuse me. We will support the drafts with importers Mr. Valkov and the Council of Ministers with full awareness that they are useful and work well. Regarding Mr. Petar Slavov's bill, we expect more concrete, clearer and more working proposals that we could possibly discuss. At this stage, we will refrain from supporting this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u240	Thank you, dear Mr. Notev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like this law to be voted on more than all of you, so I will be quite brief. I absolutely agree with the arguments Mr. Notev just said. He almost said the ones I wanted to say. According to the two draft laws of colleague Valkov and group of MPs, and of the Council of Ministers, BSP left Bulgaria will support them as we believe that they are needed, needed and should be adopted as soon as possible. About the bill submitted by colleague Petar Slavov. As a former councilman, I'd like to say that this is a big problem for local authorities. Indeed, the difficulty of the movement of public transport caused precisely by the use of bus lanes by other cars makes it difficult for both the introduction of the crossroads control system, and for the most part the local authorities take the use of public transport as a priority. That is, by giving this opportunity, by bringing taxis into the bus lanes, we seize such an opportunity for local authorities to prioritize their transport, respectively the funds they allocate for mass urban transport. The other thing I want to say is very important. The fact is, we've only been discussing three changes for an hour. You remember that last year seven or eight amendments to this law were tabled, and only today there were three or four further requests for amendments. I think we're all convinced that we need a new Road Traffic Act. This time I really hope with the effort of all the parliamentary groups that we will make this law an hour sooner to be developed and, respectively, within this year, if it can be adopted. Bulgaria and society need such a law. I think we'll do something good for the state. In this law, believe me, and you all agree that there is no place for politics at all. There is a place for good cooperation and the development of such a law that will be useful to all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u242	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go. [[Noise and lines from GERB. A line from the MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u243	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! It is my duty to declare that my statement is not on purpose, but on the ground. [[GERB lines.]] I accept the argument that dropping control with mobile cameras affects road security and has a direct bearing on the order of the road, but I would like to say something that is important in my opinion that the return of this mode of control should not in any way be considered to be a matter of the fact that no one in this room sees it as a means of anti-crisis policy, i.e. as a means of collecting certain revenue in the Treasury. In this sense, we of the Patriotic Front will control and observe how they will apply this principle. [[GERB lines.]] I think others here in this room have the bitter attempt to be controlled by such cameras, as drivers say in absolutely pointless places. Because if they stop you two meters away from the sign: "End in a populated area" and move at 65 kilometers per hour, write you an act. Sorry, this is no way to control and increase safety.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u244	You can't spell for 65 kilometers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u245	It's written. This is the main question.. the practical application. It is also the responsibility of the control authorities to maintain such a position of forces and means, of cameras that they actually have real control, of controlling places that are risky, not of places where drivers and roads allow for small violations and small penalties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-29.u246	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. First, I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 454-01-35, submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on 5 November 2014. The Commission does not support the Law. Abort the vote and announce the result. [[Heckling]] I ask you to vote once again for technical reasons. They voted 106 MPs: 17 against 13, 76 abstentions. The bill was not adopted at first reading. I am now voting on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 454-01-62, submitted by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs on 11 December 2014. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt this Law. Vote 113 MPs: 109, against 1, abstention 3. The bill was passed at the first vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 502-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2015. The Commission's proposal is for the National Assembly to adopt the Bill. They voted 115 MPs: 112, none, abstention 3. The bill was passed in the first vote. Here you go, Mrs. Karastoyanova. [[National Representative Polina Karastoyanova spoke with President Dimitar Glavchev.]] You're giving up the procedure. Yeah. Thank you. Communication of Parliamentary Control on 30 January 2015, Friday, 11:00: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin will answer two questions from MP Maya Manolova. 2. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer a question from the MP Boris Yachev. 3. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer 14 questions from the MPs Kalina Balabanov; Volen Siderov, who has three questions; Yavor Notev; Desislav Chukolov; Methodie Andreev; Angel Naydenov 4. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer four questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov and Dimitar Dubov, Kalina Balabanov, and Ivan Stankov, who has two questions, and one question from the National Representative Boyka Marinska. 5. The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer six questions from the MPs Antoni Trenchev, Valentin Pavlov, Dimitar Gorov, Dzhevdet Chakarov, Dimitar Shishkov and Desislava Atanasova and two questions from the MPs Georgi Kuchukov and Nastimir Ananiev. 6. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer three questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, Emil Raynov, and Krasimir Bogdanov. 7. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will answer two questions from the MPs Philip Popov and Yanaki Stoilov. 8. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer nine questions from the MPs Metodi Andreyev, Bunyamin Hasan, Aidoan Ali and Hamid Hamid, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov, Mustafa Ahmed and Erdinch Hajrula, Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev, Yavor Haytov, Svetla Bachvarova, Maya Manolova, and Dimitar Bajraktarov, and one question from the MP Kornelia Nino. 9. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer 11 questions from the MPs Lyubomir Vladimirov, Dimitar Boychev and Ivan Valkov, Vyara Cerovska, Yavor Haytov, Jayhan Ibryamov, Villa Lilkov, Yavor Haytov and Hristo Todorov, Dimitar Dubov and Manol Genov, Kornelia Marinova, Dimitar Bajraktarov, and Nikolay Alexandrov and one question from the MPs Dora Yankova and Manol Genov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to two questions with written answer from the MPs Emil Raynov, and Dimitar Dubov and Manol Genov; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to three questions from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Kiril Dobrev, Radoslav Stoychev and Kiril Dobrev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova of the National Representatives Maya Manolova and Dora Yankova; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions from the MPs Kornelia Ninova and Nastimir Ananiev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 4 and art. 97, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, due to the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - six questions from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva, to whom there are two questions, to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov, to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov and to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova; - a question from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov Ivanov to the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. In the absence of the country, Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov, Interior Minister Veselin Vuchkov and Justice Minister Hristo Ivanov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to pre-planned meetings with international participation, the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, Economy Minister Bozidar Lukarski and Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate in the parliamentary control. Total number of questions - 55 questions - 7 questions and total number of questions - 62 questions. Necessary parliamentary time 9 hours and 51 minutes. Due to the running out of time scheduled for today's plenary day, I'm closing the session. Tomorrow's 9:00 p.m. meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]]
